ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25090	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So before you is the Justice Development Strategy. It is as you will see for the period from 2013 to 2018. What I would just like to emphasise is that everything that has been in front of you in the past and what follows is just coming out of this strategy. We can talk about why she's not a couple of months but we've been working in parallel with a whole series of laws and you'll see that she's completely in line with that. As an example of the first issue of independence, impartiality and expertise of the judiciary. Last week we had the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on Courts, that's exactly what it says. The other thing is, for example. efficiency, you have seen before you have already been the Law on a litigation procedure and the executive laws have been, the bankruptcy we have changed in committees is the Penal Code amending very quickly goes and the Law on Land Books therefore also what we follow from this strategy. I would also like to mention more amendments to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, court fees because it fits into everything we do and what will come in the next period. What is next is a new thing because this strategy is based on completed negotiations and in Croatia as a member of the EU means it is no longer like until now that it has been a strategy for closing negotiations, it is a Member State's strategy. So we have chapter 3 of the Croatian judiciary as part of the European judiciary, that's what's waiting for us. So we need to work very hard, the ministry is working on it, we're working very well with the Supreme Court, we simply need to get into a situation that what is now becomes actually part of our internal right that we can start using it properly. The management of human potentials is what I can say we're proud of in the ministry. We made for the first time long-term human potential planning for judges and state lawyers, so up to 2025. We listed in the material exactly when who is leaving, when someone does not retire, what are the needs, and this is our basic tool to further manage what will happen in the judiciary. Finally, it means the use of information systems, an extremely important thing. We're planning to end this process in all courts this year. Citizens will soon be able to search their subject very easily by entering the web, which will contribute not only to transparency but to this whole strategy goal. The next year, to make it work, to move on to a more advanced system, to connect things, etc. So I'm saying, there's a strategy in front of you that comes out of all these laws that are in place and will be in the next period. Of course the laws are only a small part, what is most important is education changes of consciousness on which we also, as you see here, have given a special emphasis and what we will especially do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25091	Thank you very much. Are the rapporteurs of the board, the Justice Committee? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25092	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here are the few days we have been hanging out with the Minister of Justice, with rareness in the Croatian Parliament, the few words of opposition that have been addressed with so many compliments as has been addressed to the Minister of Justice. This legislative framework, these three laws that we passed last week, and this strategy that the minister represents here today, we are discussing it is actually a good intention. It is a framework, a tool that should help the Croatian judiciary get out of the fungi. But one is written laws that are as I said last week far better than practice, and the other is practice itself. Because few citizens of the Republic of Croatia would agree with the claim made by the proposed Justice Strategy for the period 2013-2018, where the guidelines set out in the current strategic documents have been successfully implemented and the measures are largely implemented. Indeed, afterwards, Minister Milenic will probably explain to me what the sentence means and what it is achieved that the guidelines and measures, i.e. reform activities, require. It is necessary to create preconditions for independence, impartiality, professionalism and professionalism in the judiciary. The court proceedings should be shortened, the number of pending cases should be reduced, i.e. the conditions for an effective judiciary should be met. Does anyone know how long desert debates are in Croatia? And after 20 years, so long as there is no work dispute left over. The work dispute lasts even a third of the average working age of Croatian workers. It hasn't improved in recent years. In Croatia, there is a second order of citizens, and these are all those who have no connection, money or influence, justice is hard to reach. The impunity with the welfare of courts and judges is still being seized by shares, with the help of courts and judges, land, real estate and other assets. It is still being done in Croatia without being paid without employers bearing any responsibility, let alone guilt. Although the resident Dr. Rubal has been setting up for more than a decade and a half for fake disability, to allow healthy and young people to go into disability pensions, he is sentenced to a fraction of his illegal activity and, I guess, he himself laughs. In practice, the probation system is treated as a voluntary dance school where several dozen professionals are optionally teaching criminals who are not released prematurely to new honest steps live. Many judges are under-professional and under-integrated for one of the most responsible jobs in the country. A judge who does not distinguish the concept from content, a judge who interrupts a sentence with a lot of data, who will manage them still has equal status with judges of honour. So long as the judges and despite the poor trials will be able not only to work but to advance, so long as the worst judges cannot be eliminated from the judiciary from the reform will be nothing. The code of judicial ethics was passed in 2006, but many judges do not seem to respect it. The dignity of judges must be taken care of by judges and also by the State Judiciary Council whose members themselves do not always adhere to the Code. Special attention and efforts aimed at reducing the number of pending cases with special emphasis on "old" items, cases in which the process lasts longer than three years. Each such case should be subject to review, and the judge should be subject to special measures, especially those which make it more difficult for more than three years. It should be even, it says in the Strategy, court practice. Yes, you should, but it still happens often that for the same crime in two different courts, the same crime that occurred under the same circumstances gets different penalties and it dramatically differs. The sentence depends not only on justice based on the laws but also on the worldview of the judge, the closeness of the judge with the persons in the dispute, the prejudices of the judge, the closeness of the judges and the president of the court with the powers, the dependence of judges on certain media. Judicial inspections in such cases do not react or react rarely. When the party in the dispute asks the Ministry to start a working dispute after years of standing the case in the drawer to solve the resulting response procedure does not stand in place, it moves, for almost a decade and is again decided by the judge of the municipal court who does not agree with the facts. But this practice will probably come to an end, because as Mr Milenic said last week, he will no longer be able to walk from first degree to County, then the Supreme Court to County, then first degree, then to County again, then to Supreme Court and so on for 20 years. The aim of the Ministry of Justice and the judicial authorities is to make the work of judicial authorities more effective. The essence of justice, and then the existence of judicial bodies, is justice. Efficiency is only good when it is based on righteousness, respect for the law, and justice of judgment. Statistics often insisted here in this Strategy can be often a lie. So it's not just the number of cases solved that satisfy us, it's the quality of the solution. The justice Ivo Josipovic spoke of in the election campaign. There is little mention of justice in the Strategy, too little mention of ethics, and too little mention of justice. It is as if there is too much justice in Croatia, as if there are too many ethics and ethical judges in Croatia which, of course, is not. In Croatia we are still looking for justice with a candle, but not just small people, but all those who do not belong to a herd whose herd to avoid the thrill of ghosts is also used by Noam Chonski. All outside the herd of political, capitalist or underground compared to the Croatian judiciary are small, insignificant people. Welcome to the rationalization of courts and state's attorneys. We reduced municipal courts 108 to 34, misdemeanor courts from 114 to 63, and municipal state's attorneys from 71 to 33. The number of County courts from 21 to 15, and the County State's attorneys from 20 to 15. Before the Trade Courts were 13, and now there are seven. However, I continue to argue the quality of the proceedings and the quality of the judges is the essence of all reforms. Welcome to the mobility of judges, welcome to see judges reduce workloaded courts temporarily to courts that are more burdened. Excuse me. But the most important thing is who and how he judges, or judges. The system of statistical monitoring is important, but quality is more important. Quality affects statistics, of course, and more important to righteousness. Only high-quality judges can strengthen or reduce the impression of whether Croatia is a legal state. Only in the vision of the Justice Development Strategy is it discussed the essence, eased access to justice, protection of judicial security, the rights of citizens and legal persons, and respect for social and moral values. The objective of the Strategy can be far shorter and more concrete in formulating the trust of citizens and society as a whole in the judiciary. The society must intervene in the judiciary as soon as the judiciary ceases to carry out its duties, and when traffic or renegotiates itself from the essence, and the essence is to serve the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25093	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25094	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a strategy for the development of the Croatian judiciary from 2013 to 2018. For the HDSSB club, one of the very important legal strategies is all that has been done so far in this system since 2005 and until 2012 it is indeed a major step towards the Croatian judiciary and what is most important is that this chapter, the chapter of the judiciary and fundamental human rights in the negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union has proved to be the most demanding but also most professional and we are sure that the most progress has been made in this part of the judiciary. As a club, we supported all those laws, above all, which are laws that will benefit from protecting the interests of our citizens and citizens, but also the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We cannot say that by 2005 there was no independent judiciary then, as representatives, we would have hit the very foundations of Croatian statehood. We can say and admit that there were a lot of problems, a lot of difficulties, and all of this depended on what level of justice the city is dealing with, what level of knowledge the judges are dealing with, and at that very moment from the start of the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU. I was a member of the State Attorney's Council for two years, three years of the State Judiciary Council. It is an invaluable experience when, on this side of the legislative body, we, who make laws in practice, see what real problems are and where they really need to be helped. So all of this that has been done by 2012 should first and foremost be given recognition to the Ministry of Justice, but also to all state institutions and the former government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice and to all those who participated in this work. Because without all the institutions of the state government in Croatia, there would be neither this strategy nor an effective judiciary. That there are problems in practice I will do something later and it is normal with such a comprehensive reform procedure that all the laws and all the measures we have taken to a certain extent and in certain expectations may not be implemented. Practice has shown that some laws, first and foremost the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act, and the Executive Law and the Law on Administrative Courts and the Law on Administrative Disputes in Practice, have also shown a rapid change, quickly adapting the terms and conditions, and we are sure that although this strategy does not have long-term planning, these are our objectives. The objectives are set out in the Action Plan, they will be revised as are all these current action plans and objectives if there was a need, and the need existed because of the adjustment of our judiciary to the EU legal system. It is good that the 2010 amendments to the Constitution have strengthened the independence of the State's Attorney's Office, in particular the State Judicial Council, the State's Attorney's Council. It is good that members of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council are elected from the ranks of the judicial officials by a secret vote, and I believe that it is also good on behalf of the Club that this balance remains that one representative from the ranks of the ruling coalition, one representative from the ranks of the opposition, is kept in those bodies because of one balance, but also because of a certain non-control but a reference to guidelines, because even if it can be directly referred to the legislative body through this judicial body, the problem will be resolved more quickly, more quality laws will be passed. It is these laws that went after our membership in these bodies that changed the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on the State Attorney's Council that proved to be precisely the result of this cooperation in those high bodies. A great confession should also be given to the Judicial Academy. The judicial academy as an independent academy, as a public institution, has been given a special legal role in strengthening the human resources of the Croatian judiciary, education and education of judicial officials, as well as of officials working in the justice system. It is all a connected system which, by such reinforcements and such ingenuities received by the Judicial Academy and the State School for Judicial Officials surely leads towards a more perfect, efficient and better Croatian judiciary. And these are measures that are truly commendable. We, and alone through the State Judicial Council, have seen very high-quality candidates who speak several languages, who simply at some point today could not get a chance because they have given priority to more experienced, quality perhaps then staff, but through this Judicial Academy and through the State School for Judicial Officials, we will surely achieve the goal because our trip to the EU is not over on 1 July 2013 when we become a full member but our path and tasks for the Croatian judiciary will only begin on 1 July next year because new challenges are ahead of us. All of these laws that we have harmonised as guidelines for Chapter 23 and implemented in our legal system will certainly prove to be much more difficult in practice than it is to pass a law and discuss us here, much harder in practice because this very professional training, teaming, knowledge of foreign languages is a new challenge for the Croatian judiciary and for the Republic itself as a member of the EU. And we advocate as a HDSSB club that additional efforts, additional resources are found for the work of the Judicial Academy, the State School for Judicial Officials and, by our side, a budget reduction at the position of the Ministry of Justice for 2013 is not good because these 200 million kunas in the system of justice may definitely take away some of these future needs, which is strengthening and teaming up the staff. This is the fundamental problem and the fundamental requirement of the future Croatian judiciary because we are facing a new period of challenge and we are standing for it. The independence, impartiality and expertise of the judiciary is precisely through these laws that we have passed, and I believe that they will manifest themselves in the time ahead. The work of the State's Attorney's Office, in the Croatian Parliament, we discussed the State's Attorney's Office as one of the key institutions that participates in this strategy for the development of the judiciary. We therefore made in some of our comments on some good actions, good actions of the State's Attorney's Office green light. But what is not good, there is no effective judiciary, there is no independence if all the levers of such authorities in the institutions they hold are not firmly held and if they are not so protected that they cannot be allowed to in some key cases which are of interest to protect above all the interests of the Republic of Croatia information girl in the media. This was just happening in this part of the State's Attorney's Office. We believe that, and we have repeated it several times, it should be prevented because it threatens the foundations of a secure Croatian judiciary. This does not depend solely on the Attorney General, it depends primarily on all personnel and on all those departments and experts who work in those bodies and should put emphasis on that what is wrong should be changed, that what needs to be done and run in this system should be done as soon as possible because it is just as important that this institution of government is also independent. In our view, we should also consider that for the General State Attorney as well as for some other institutions and holders of the highest executive authorities in the Republic of Croatia, there may be a limitation of the mandate to 2 mandates without going by the name and last name of the executive, nor should we consider that this balance in the levers of a serious institution should nevertheless be kept at a certain level. And we believe, the HDSSB club believes that it is necessary to consider maybe even legally sticking to the area, to limit the term of office of the Attorney General to two consecutive mandates. We also believe that, and that would be good for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, because the President of the Supreme Court who has great powers and according to our laws and according to the strategy that we have provided for and under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia after two consecutive mandates may also need to think about creating a democratic balance not because of any doubt that someone is doing his job well but precisely because of the tendency to change that through new fresh blood and new swings may bring some better results. I believe that everyone is professional and that everyone does their job fairly and honestly, but in order to create a truly democratic framework if it is for the president of the Republic of Croatia who can have two mandates, why don't we go to the area of the State's Attorney's Office and to the area of the Supreme Court as well as to the area of security intelligence agencies. All this should be well thought out because if we are to create a truly independent, impartial and professional judiciary then we should also think about putting the leaders of these institutions in balance and democracy towards all the highest institutions in the Republic of Croatia. If it can be the President of the Republic of Croatia, I think it can be all the other officials, and therefore these heads of state's attorney's body, Supreme Court, Security Intelligence Agency, and all those bodies that are part of this strategy for the development of the Croatian judiciary. Without it, we won't do much. The effective Croatian judiciary, one of the most difficult steps, is one of the most difficult steps that we are here during and last week by passing laws on amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, through the Executive Act, through the Criminal Law, through the Law of Administrative Procedure, these are all the challenges that will be shown in practice. We have created a legal framework, now it is time to go into practice, to go by, unfortunately, different practice in Croatian courts, the uniformity of the case law cannot happen in the Court of Justice in Osijek, to decide one thing in the court in Zagreb, to decide another in Bjelovar, Rijeka, Split, the third, the uniform Croatian judiciary, the uniform adoption of judgments, on democracy, laws and the Constitution, is one of the fundamental systems of Croatian justice, and without that there is no effective judiciary. I believe that through these changes, through the laws that we have passed, that the number of cases in a large number of cases have been reduced, because by rationalising the networks of courts that we have brought, by rationalising the state's attorneys, we have passed the burden of cases evenly on some courts that have not really had anything to do so far, it has been a bit foolish to pay the same wages for half the less work, not insulting fellow judges, not advisers, not judicial officials, but the rationalisation of the network was necessary, primarily because of the reduction of the burden of the case, because this quality rationalization has really led to the reduction of the number of pending court cases, which is one of our conditions that have been for the conclusion of Chapter 23. It's not perfect yet, but it's going well. The establishment of administrative courts, the four administrative courts, the introduction of a second-degree court trial for administrative courts, is also a measure that is to be welcomed, the reduction of cases happens, the cases are better resolved in this way, and there we have also given in the adoption of laws and this strategy full support, and we believe that through further monitoring, teaming, but informing the system of all levels of courts and all institutions that a major shift will be made in this. That is why it is precisely in the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it is a burden to provide financial resources in these economically difficult times, but without an effective judiciary there is no effective economy. We have seen that the largest number of large criminal cases, the great injustices, the large robberies have just taken place in that part, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not reduce the funds of the judiciary, but increases, we need to find strength, we need to find opportunities, because there is no effective economy without an effective judiciary. We have before us colleagues and colleagues a new path, a European path for such strategies, for such planning, for Croatia's place in the European Union, for laws to serve citizens, for services, for the openness of the judiciary, for the professional judiciary, for professional judges, for the independent State Attorney's Office, the State Judicial Council, the State's Attorney's Council, for the independent Supreme Court, for what will therefore be plus Croatia in the European Union, we, as the Club of Representatives of the HDSB, give full support to these proposals that we have stated, and I think we should all consider it. It is up to us, as the Croatian Parliament, to the highest representative body of citizens with all of these institutions, and I am sure that we are in the time of this 7 when we will call on Croatia to join the European Union and we who, at least who are engaged in law and justice, will make our full contribution to the perfect, effective, impartial and functional laws that will be passed by the Croatian Parliament, which will meet all those conditions of Croatia in Chapter 23 and the monitoring that serves us until the country enters the European Union. The HDSSB Club in this section supports this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25095	Thank you, Your Honor. Now it is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25096	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports this proposal for a justice development strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018. And, Mr. President, as you pointed out today on December 10th, I think it is not by chance that we today, I think it is a sign and it is a good sign, that today, on the day of human rights protection, we are discussing an international day of human rights on the Justice Development Strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018. Why first? Because it's the courts that protect individual rights. I would also mention here immediately the European Convention on Human Rights, which in its Article 6 speaks exactly about the right of every individual, every citizen to a fair trial, the right of every citizen, so every citizen to have an honest, impartial and professional judge. It is an ideal that we must recognize with all these praises and mutual recognitions that we give ourselves in the form of the laws that we have passed, it has not yet been achieved. Let us not fool ourselves almost nowhere that it has not been achieved, but precisely the weight and distance and distance of that goal cannot be an excuse to stop on that road, but rather to be even more persistent on that road, the way of ideal, that every citizen has the right to an honest, professional and independent judge. What's it worth to a citizen that all judges in one court or most of them are like that if he gets his case where he got it, where his case solves a judge who's not independent, who's not professional? What good would that do him? And finally, the citizens of us, how successful we are in the independence of the judiciary and in the development of the judiciary, so we as the legislative body and the executive authority, the judicial authority, the rule of law as a whole evaluates us from that aspect, from the aspect of the exception, not the rules. Although in some other areas of human life such exceptions can be tolerated here, we have no right to an exception, and therefore this strategy that admits that not everything has yet been made and should not be returned to that past in 2000 when we found a frightened, frightened judiciary that had no paper to write on the old typewriters. Half of the court's court staff were missing, and what was left of them had caused fear in their bones, and we haven't recovered in terms of the judiciary yet in the whole of that 90s devastation. But let's not go back to that now and talk about what someone said. Let's see what further we have to do from the aspect not only of the enthusiasm that we laws needed, which we all here have unanimously brought. I don't remember which law perhaps one small segment because of some ideological differences, but all the laws I will especially mention the Law on the Procedural Procedure when it first changed, it is, which is a fundamental law with the Criminal Law and with the Constitution of a country, which was passed here with 100% of those votes that were, the parliamentary representatives who were present. So, we need to take care of how to get to that independent judiciary, how to make this justice a quality, how to be effective at that one speed, given the lag behind us constantly and which we haven't solved and which is constantly burdening the new inflow. So we still have to make sure that the judiciary, that the judges take over the master's role in the courtroom, give them all the powers but also ask for responsibility. They're not asking for my citizens, they're asking for that kind of responsibility. And that this judiciary be no matter how current but equally defeated policy. And not just from politics, but from all the centers of power that, in one way or another, travel around like a devil and tend to the judiciary in different ways. And let's not fool ourselves many centres of power outside politics are, should be recognized, we're still afraid to speak openly about them. This is what it takes unanimity here to answer the policy which corresponds to the dissension in the policy on fundamental values that must be the anchors of our society. But this strategy, Mr. Minister, shows exactly that, and I'm not going to say that that's not what the others did, that we're telling all teams that justice is not and justice is not on the market, that we want a market economy, but that we're not going to put fundamental human values like justice, justice and other fundamental human values on the market. Therefore, the market economy but not the company market. And if we look a little bit better through certain sectors how the whole strategy should be observed through various branches of trial, through civil, criminal, through the performance, through our penal system, then of course along with this whole series I would say that in the last 12 years I have really, that it is difficult to recognize exactly what the effort was made and what the resources in this were invested and a large part of the echo by the judiciary itself or the holder of the judicial authority was positive. And that wasn't easy at first. When you told me in 2000 that you would start the Centre for Education Education of Judges it was welcomed to the knife. So we know everything, we don't need to be educated. So there was a lot of it and it was the beginning of that one resistance. Today, these things, today, not only today but also the last 7 and 8 years and more, they're happy to respond to all of that, maybe they don't even have as much resources as they want for all of it. However, I again mention the takeover of responsibility almost has no law that does not give the judge greater authority. Such one responsibility has been established with the State Judicial Council, but is it to the extent necessary? Not yet, not yet enough. And that's why it's up to us, I'll start with the criminal trial. Today, we will also discuss after this the Penal Code which speaks of further reform of the criminal trial but also some new guidelines and a new path for the development of a criminal trial branch that speaks of a different policy that will correct because we have seen the present part and I would say a turn of criminal justice reform that has not been successful in one part. And if it wasn't successful, you don't need to be interpreted by the police force from the beginning, but look at what's going on in prisons and penitentiaries. And surely with this direction and with these changes that we will discuss and therefore the accompanying laws that some of us have already discussed, some of us will just be discussing which are mentioned in the strategy. We will see how this will be good not only a guideline, but a good solution to the big part of the problem that we have in our penitentiary system that our penitentiary facilities are full, so we need to close down and lock down the penitentiary for the most dangerous perpetrators of certain protected social values. In this context, I propose, and we suggest, we think about it, of course, there is still time that we have to introduce the criminal act of breaking the law by judges and other judicial officials who existed in our Penal Code and who mysteriously disappeared into so-called. A criminal mini reform in the second half of the '90s. I would say that it wasn't accidentally gone and that the crime under which judges fall is not adequate and it's not as specific as this would be because such a designed crime only for those officials, only for the judicial officials protects them from any chicane act, and that was the case. So we had 10 years ago judges who finally took economics to deal with economic crime all those judges had criminal charges from the defendants themselves. So please, in which phase we still find ourselves when the defendants and the defendants call us the State's Attorney's office and the judicial authority. So where do we have this land? We can discuss the State's Attorney's Office of Justice, and whether it's a question of certain proceedings, which is why we are witnessing that the defendants are being attacked by our courts and the State's Attorney's office. In that segment, the judge should protect them, but also the right judge, the just judge who follows the law, is not afraid of that crime. To him, it's a protection from such chicane behavior. So here at the SDP club, we believe that giving responsibility to the highest authority also requires adequate responsibility, that they are the face and face of the same medal. As far as the civil trial is concerned, even those who dispute so-called "citizens." extravagant cases, so over the last few years we have relieved our judiciary of the next European Commission directive on judicial dispensation and discharge from all those so-called so-called. court cases. Therefore, those who mention the legacy are wrong. There may be some kind of case that's become a lawsuit, but it's almost an exception, but it's been a rule for years to come. No one thinks it's a problem anymore today. But the litigation continues to take an unforgivable length of time, even though we've changed the litigation process all these years, and they've been going to speed up the process. I know and the latest amendments to the litigation process are going in that direction to shorten the procedure. But what's even more important is that we get to one point so that we can't protect the rights of the participants in this process to shorten it more because we'd come to absurdity. Then it wouldn't be more trial than administration, and we don't want to. Therefore, what is yet to come is still a question of how much evaluation is being made of how much a certain law applies. How many participants respect their rights and responsibilities, which is exactly why the judge is responsible. Does an expert sharpen his rights, do you sue to sharpen his rights, does the defendant? Let's not kid ourselves, so often the prosecutor is stalling his own lawsuit for impunity or inadequate representation. One more reform of the land-book system cannot be achieved unless we have such contracts that are absolutely similar to the book, and it is known who can put them together. Today you still have the opportunity to buy in the first bookshop contract and submit it to the land and book department. Of course, that's where all the trouble comes in. Who protected her? The nadiscriptors have dealt with it and are putting together such contracts that are inadmissible to the book, create a problem for the judiciary, create a problem for the party. Therefore, we have now come to one of the most important issues, and these are the issues of access to justice especially in times of crisis. I think this is such an important topic that the subject was discussed in the European Parliament in Brussels last week. A time of crisis is not good for protecting human rights. Human rights are being violated. We have to worry that we as a country that has just over 4 million inhabitants, each 3 people has one case before the court. It's an alarming condition. Therefore... as a legislative authority, we must imagine where such a great lawlessness came from. And it's not true that our people are lovers of litigation and litigation. So, access to justice and fast solving of cases but also quality is something that will then be tried and evaluated throughout our work together, the work of all three authorities. I'd like to make a special note of the work of the trade courts. There's a big pile of money trapped, millions trapped there. And at the speed of this particular trial, perhaps we can see how the judiciary, by its work or by its unhappiness, by its speed or slowness, by its quality or by its inextricability, acts directly on economic flows. And I will bring the end to one single sentence that dates back to Roman law. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] Unless the judge is educated they are not salvation but trouble for the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25097	Thank you, too. The first replica of the respected representative, Anne Lovrin, has been reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25098	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Anticevic, I have to replicate to you because you're not the only one who's talked about it more times, you've gone back to ancient history, and you've repeated your flatulence or not to tell the truth, and then unfortunately become a general place or even a notorous fact. You spoke of the devastion of the Croatian judiciary in the 1990s as the reason for the problem of the Croatian judiciary today. Are you saying, and we are old enough and others to remember the judiciary in Yugoslavia, do you really want to say, I am colleagues, so I remember the judiciary during the state of Yugoslavia and here in Croatia, and I remember how long the proceedings lasted. As many years as we fear today to last. Perhaps the penalty for verbal delinquency or for the violation of the Yugoslav constitutional order was a little faster, but these lawsuits certainly lasted and you can't say that the devastion of the judiciary in the '90s is the reason for today's problems. These problems were long before being dragged, and unfortunately the Croatian state because of the aggression of the '90s indeed had far-reaching jobs to defend itself, and could not pay enough attention to the system of justice, which is an important issue to be devoted to, and therefore.../
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25099	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25100	So when I spoke to my colleagues about the development of the judiciary, then I wanted to talk from the '90s, from the creation of the state. I don't know why you have such nostalgia that you always call on those times, and I would agree with you if we were to discuss these times before that certain procedures were conducted quickly and in quotes effectively. That's absolutely true, but let me remind you then of those years, just because the judiciary is like English grass, it must not be abandoned and one great stress has far-reaching consequences. So how much money has been spent, we haven't reached an independent judiciary yet. And he says we had a war, we didn't devote enough. I wish you hadn't devoted yourself to him enough, but you've devoted yourself to him too much, but in an inadequate way. And I will also remind you of the drastic case, the case of the state's attorney from Gospić who was fired here in the Croatian Parliament because he didn't report for work, and he didn't report for work because he was killed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25101	Thank you very much. Another replica and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25102	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues Anticevic-Marinovic, you spoke of the responsibility of all participants of the institutions of reform in the Development Strategy, mentioning the state's attorney's office. I have said in the debate that it is very dangerous and who is responsible when some of the important investigations which are crucial investigations into economic crime that are behind us now, some of the information published in the media could have a significant impact, above all, on the pressure on the judiciary and on the judge in the given case because what happens if a court finds a person guilty before the court is finished. It is a great danger to the Croatian judiciary and just in the debate on behalf of the club I was saying that I should think about maybe changing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, that it really must not be allowed, there must be responsibility in the system. Here I forgot to mention the Ministry of Interior and the police and police conduct as a prerequisite for certain actions for the bodies provided for in our investigation strategy can be, and are of crucial importance to the procedure itself. We've seen the past few months, the days that something very strange has been happening in that system, and there's a system where the rules are broken. We have ethical codes here and here in the judiciary and in the police. I think we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, need the Croatian Parliament to further legally strengthen the police's responsibility because it happens that the police exceed their powers, that they do not do their job in quality. And we saw that one of the so-called. The most qualified persons in the case of the repression of prostitution are currently engaged in this pimping process, we have seen that certain inspectors, police officers in investigations have been informing criminals and persons of a suspicious criminal past of police actions. All of this sheds light on exactly what we expect, it is a quality result of this strategy. Without these levers before this Justice Strategy itself has no success. That should be some emphasis on responsibilities in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25103	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25104	Well, colleague,... you are connecting here and the efficiency of the judiciary and with our regular forces absolutely agree with you, especially by giving us the authority of the state attorney's office to be the master of the investigation after the suspension of the judicial investigation, so that's exactly what I'm saying might be true, and what I said, the greater authority is asking for greater responsibility, but it's good that the system recognises the weak spots and eliminates such people. But this is a big problem that you're talking about and where we together have to put an end to, so leak information. They say the girls from the police, the girls from the state's attorney's office, and no one remembered before where we had the front page so with the seal of the secret services who didn't do God's good by such content, but the main one was to compromise that person. Then what are we talking about? And so the only solution to that is that, given that the investigation and the procedures that a large number of people come into possession and the possession of these copies, we have to agree on this, first of all, that it is a criminal offence and that it is forbidden not only to give but also to publish, as it used to be, because it remains in the CAP. To see how that goes, and that's a prerequisite for efficiency of action.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25105	Thank you very much. And the third replica and the esteemed representative, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25106	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Members, you mentioned the importance of judicial reform in this European context. It seems to me that we can all agree here and we have to agree. I'd just be referring to what my colleague Lovrin mentioned earlier, just because of the context, when you were talking about the devastation of the judiciary in the '90s. It is simply necessary to put it in the context of all the negative elements of the era of the communist dictatorship in order to get a good look and not create a false impression, especially when we speak in this European context. You have seen, you are an observer in the European Parliament and you have certainly seen an article in Frankfurter allgemaine zeitung from this weekend when they were reporting a visit to the President of Germany where they actually said that one of Croatia's biggest problems is exactly facing this period and how to deal with the very negative legacy of the communist dictatorship and so on in the area of justice. So here is clear because of the context, you are in part and in response to colleague Lovrin already looked back on it but I think it is extremely important not to send me the wrong messages from the Croatian Parliament at this sensitive moment when we expect ratification in Bundestag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25107	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25108	That is not at all questionable what you have said, and I agree with that except for one note. That's why I had to answer your line. By unifying Germany, the judges of East Germany and Western Germany had no equal salary. They don't have it today. Therefore, we are a country that is conscious of its weaknesses, but also of its virtues. We are lagging behind many European standards, but in many ways we are ahead of the political experience and we have, therefore, in many areas, social areas that we have to say. Therefore, this is one thing that does not serve many other countries for honor, and the problem of justice has become a European problem of inefficiency, i.e. the accumulation of cases, and then perhaps once again to draw attention to the importance of peaceful dispute resolution. If we leave all cases and disputes to the judiciary, they will never be able to solve both backlogs and inflows. The solution is in the development of a peaceful dispute settlement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25109	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament is now up and is represented by Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25110	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At first, let me just say, Mr. President, it's nice and good that you reminded us that today is International Human Rights Day. We are also discussing today a topic of the Justice Reform Strategy where we are undoubtedly touching a fundamental, one of the fundamental human rights, which is the right to a fair trial, access to justice and to judicial protection of justice. But we were also expecting Mr. President because it is the place and because it is time to remind us, that we all remember together that today is also the anniversary of the death of the first Croatian president. We have reason to remind ourselves here, because it is certainly the first Croatian President, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, is certainly responsible for creating an independent, independent Republic of Croatia and that it is deserved and because today we can also discuss here in the Croatian Parliament on an important issue organised by the Croatian judiciary on our own and debate on an independent Croatian judiciary. Here is so much about what we remembered today which is important to remember both this year and next year, and now I will prevent the debate on the Justice Development Strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018. So, we in the Croatian Democratic Community definitely think it is necessary to have one strategic document that will be one of the main guides in all the affairs that this Croatian Parliament is also doing as a legislative body, but also the Government and all the holders of the Justice Development Strategy. We started with the first strategic document in 2006. A new strategy was adopted in 2011. Even though we don't really have anything against it and we don't see anything wrong with this document that's in front of us today, we don't see any reason why we should have brought a new strategy. However, somewhere in EU documents, it seems to me to be one of the points that a new Justice Development Strategy will be adopted. But that's probably because Croatia suggested it would bring it. The Justice Reform Strategy, which was adopted in 2011 to 2015. He says the minister that all these laws that we've passed in the past few days, so that you can ask the question whether it was right, let's say we passed them before the Strategy. No Minister, it wasn't because they had absolute strategic support in the existing strategy. So, the existing strategy was some guidance for all of these laws that we passed except for one, and I warned of that in my own time, but no one cared at that time except for the executive law that was passed against that time, and it was actually the only law where the new political option gave up the system of public enforcement institutes, although it is legitimate and in one way or another. Croatia has committed itself to reform implementing legislation in this regard. It thus established the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23. This is how the European Commission accepted it. But what's done is done. Therefore, I would like to say that, in fact, the argument which says that by analysing the activities so far has been found that out of the 47 guidelines currently in force, Strategy 53 has been implemented, and approximately still has not been implemented if we add up those in implementation and those taken over by the new Strategy around 46%. Therefore, just enough to revise the action plan as well as the strategic document is something that is more long-term, and the action plans that are adopted with the Strategy are, therefore, with the precisely established holders and the means to implement them, which correspond naturally with the possibility of a state budget, those documents that are more flexible and which can be brought on an annual basis. Therefore, we could simply adopt a revised action plan, set concrete measures in it and keep the Strategy as one long-term document. Because reading the existing strategy and this new one, reading the strategic guidelines me and me at the HDZ Club, except that thematic elements have changed something but regardless of what thematic units have changed, the measures have mostly remained contained according to the changed titles of thematic units. Of course, in this way, the proposed strategy which proposes 5 thematic units, i.e. strategic guidelines of independence, impartiality and expertise of the judiciary, the effectiveness of the judiciary, the Croatian judiciary as part of the European judiciary, human resources management, the exploitation of the potential of modern technology, and differs in these last two points because the previous strategy had the thematic whole of access to justice and criminal law and the criminal sanctions system. I say, no matter what thematic units are renamed, which is likely to be given on the meaning of some of the measures that were in the existing strategy, which is, first of all, I would welcome and say that it's good, it's human potential management. And what you said made the Ministry of Justice that long-term planning for the movement of human potential within the justice system is extraordinary and it's welcome. Of course, that has been the case before. Because in that case, there is no delay in filling in and selecting new judicial officials. In fact, we know that in the past legislation it was prescribed that competitions for a judge or a state lawyer should be opened when the place is freed, and it is known that about a year or so it has been known to pass from tendering to filling that place, so it is good and it is necessary to plan both natural outflows and any possible situations that may arise. But I repeat that these human potential management measures are contained in the current strategy only in other thematic units. What we personally think is not good, namely, let me just say that this strategy has kept one methodology of the strategic document as well as the boredom, and that's good. It has, of course, like any strategy, the first review of the so far achieved and what has been done so far, and I think that we have all agreed more or less that all these changes have already been made in the last few years of systematic and accelerated amendments to legislation, so above all, procedural laws, important procedural laws of the Penalty and the Parnician, but also material laws, that everything goes towards making the judiciary effective first of all. Of course, both independent and impartial, but it's all actually on the same track for a Croatian citizen to get a justice quickly and justly. Fair means independent and professional. What we think may not be good is that one thematic whole is dropped from this strategy, which is a system of enforcement of criminal sanctions. In fact, it has been left to some extent that prison capacity capacity will continue to be built under the efficiency of the judiciary. One measure is to increase capacity and raise the quality of the prison system. We don't think that's enough. Why? Because so far, the strategy has envisioned the measures that have been taken, I would say, more importantly, for the reduction of relapses to occur. And these are primarily strengthening the level of expertise and security of the prison system, raising quality of treatment through training of prison staff, training of prisoners and developing special programmes. So now this strategy, this whole prison system, or the execution of a criminal sanction, is about to increase capacity in prison and that in the part that you predict as exploiting the potential of modern technology, let's simply say further information, so that it will be aware of further information of prisons and capacity building. And we think that these measures are therefore levels of expertise, special programmes and working with prisoners equally important if not more important. And so we think that would be a place in this new strategy as well. One more thing I would like to warn you is that this new strategy also dropped one measure that we hold should find a place, which is to settle issues related to the status and work of judicial experts assessors and interpreters. In the part of the effectiveness of the judiciary, and I agree with you so, and we agree that this is the professionally material and technically most demanding area of strategic planning, we believe that this measure should find its place. In fact, from frequent cases in practice, you're certainly aware of that, too, we hear here this morning she was having some kind of radio show that talks about justice, teaches citizens etc. There was one case, so it says the party's graphological skills, the court has set a graphological art, waited a year and two months. So, this question of even court experts responsibility for art, responsibility for assessment, because we have cases where judicial assessors who probably all work by the rules of the profession, the same profession, so we have estimates 1:5, so the question is whether there are any intentions, there is or no, but doubt can exist, therefore it is certainly one area that should be paid particular attention to, and therefore we are sorry that this measure has been omitted. Otherwise, as far as these other measures are concerned, it is mainly about the measures that have been continued, which have been defined in the current strategy as something that needs to be done continuously, which has been done so far through a series of amendments to the law, but it is still a job, and by the measures these, we see therefore systematic monitoring of the implementation of these laws and the evaluation of whether they have ultimately led to those strategic objectives and to the final strategic vision that we are also drawing up. In this regard, I repeat these measures against the measures that are mentioned here and the strategic objectives which are, in any case, the continuation of the strategic provisions and of the first strategy in 2006, and still in 2011 we do not oppose them, but here we note that it is a pity that these, in particular, these two measures that I have set out have been omitted from the new proposal for a strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25111	Thank you very much to the HDZ Representatives Club and the esteemed representative, Ani Lovrin. It is now the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25112	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The Croatian People's Party, the Croatian People's Party club, will support this proposal for a justice development strategy for the period 2013-2018. We consider it a logical sequence, we think of it as continuity, and we think that this strategy is the merit of everything done over the past years, that this strategy reflects at the end what seemed to be back 8 years related to the judiciary, and precisely the reason for the adoption of a new so-called. The new strategy for this period compared to the old one 2011 to 2015 which is not even yet completed, is that a whole series of activities that were envisaged in this previous one were actually completed, because we see from the material, which means that somewhere 53% of everything planned by the 2011-2015 strategy is actually implemented, 34% in implementation, and only 9% has not been implemented. It is logical, then, that a certain newspaper was to be introduced in this new strategy in order to further improve the whole system. Of course, this whole story about judicial reform is the most intense thing that has taken place at the moment when negotiations with the European Union are open and that here is another thing that our citizens should know, which is that in this accession process, that is, we have actually done the most for ourselves and our own system, because we have improved not only this one, but this one is certainly the most important for the functioning of society. Someone commented from the ranks that Mr. Minister only spoke for three minutes, so I think it didn't take much more since here in the last 10 days we had a whole package of laws from his ministry, which actually are just talking about the strategy, only what someone would say maybe we could talk about the strategy before, but I don't think it's worse for the strategy as such to round up everything we've done in the past 10 days in the debates on laws in the field of justice. It is important that this strategy is understandable, that it is brief, that it is very clear, such strategies should be, because this means that it will be very easy to track its realisation. It is very clear that the objectives are being formulated, and that is most important for the strategy. What we would like to say on behalf of the Croatian People's Party is very often on these subjects we like to express ourselves disastrously, nothing is good, everything is too slow, the citizens are threatened, and I think that this is precisely the kind of documents, the adoption of such documents, and the laws that we have discussed, it's not good, because policy if we talk about what is worse, people will be better, and I think that from one logical and realistic dissatisfaction of citizens with the overall situation, and also by the situation in the judiciary, it could turn into some kind of link to certain structures, institutions, and then there is no justice, and no strategy will be helpful, so here, in the name of the party, it would appeal that such some kind of catastrophic message is not being sent to our citizens, because the system is not in a catastrophic state, and because it is seen from very clear data. He is, of course, in the state he is and we are not satisfied with him because we would not bring a new strategy, we would not change the laws at this pace, but it is not catastrophic. What of course in this whole strategy was interesting to us is the part that relates to efficiency. I will not be taxing here all the objectives that you set in the strategy, but surely that the effectiveness of the judiciary is what our first goal is with these three first principles and I do not think that as a state as an institution of the Parliament we cannot question at all because we are signatories of all the Conventions and Declarations on independence and impartiality and the expertise of the judiciary. So efficiency is that space, so there are the most tasks that we can do a lot of work on and significant shifts have already been made. However, we should give special support to improve the situation for the better in the future. What we also find important to point out about the goals is the part that applies to human potential management, so all systems make up people, don't make buildings and don't make devices even though they're of course the same importance. But investing in people and that long-term investment plan in personnel, the schedule of these personnel, specialization, professional training, that's something where we see huge space for the possibility of improving the entire justice system. And that's what went very hard at first, but here's a colleague, Ingrid Antičević, that more and more employees in judicial bodies are actually expecting additional education and thinks they need this education to do their job better and more effectively. Here's to not prolonging, so this strategy will be supported as a club of representatives of the HNS and wish you success in the adoption of all these laws that form part of this strategy in fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25113	Thank you, too, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative, Josip Salapic, has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues Turina-Đurić, I noticed this last additional education, the improvement of all judicial officials and employees, and then we forgot a little more payment. It is necessary to provide materials for the promotion of salaries for any judges, any judicial officials, any officials, because anyone who works with additional efforts with education believes that they should also be effectively paid to ensure that good wages in this system of justice and judiciary, judicial officials also guarantee the independence of the judiciary. I think that's what the effort needs to be made. That's why we were against this budget for the Ministry of Justice because 200 million kunas are considered a huge shortage for the ministry because all of this we have foreseen without adequate financial resources will not be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25115	Replication response. Respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25116	The esteemed colleague is very clear and I, the first and the HNS, advocates that people be paid, adequately paid for their work. However, it is quite clear that the overall financial situation has ordered rationalisation in all resolutions, as well as in the judicial portfolio. However, it seems to me that we were able to see from these materials that only the judiciary within itself tried to find additional resources also by rationalising and increasing efficiency within the system and I believe that what started in the previous term also means reducing the number of courts, or rationalising the entire system, that it will also enable certain funds to be directed into people or into their salaries. And of course we all hope for better economic times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25117	Thank you, too. Now it's SDSS and Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25118	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I could go, actually, you could go on two sides as usual. And I will start from the fact that, of course, this strategy has been done in the context of strengthening the credibility of our efforts to meet the criteria set out in Chapter 23 of the judiciary and the rule of law which is on the one hand good and on the other hand is not good. It is good because we find a reason to bring a strategy based on what the EU's expectations and EU accession are in the end of the process. And it's not good because, of course, those reasons would have to be actually indisputable to our own needs as a state. And in that sense, it's the good side and the bad side of this strategy. The good side because it's being brought and the bad side because it can be brought and then more or less expensive and finished because we're going to bring the process to an end of 1.7 and the question is whether with this kind of enthusiasm or effort we're going to do it as we're going to do in the next few months. Another thing I'd like to say, Mr. Minister, is that strategies can't, of course, have a very different language than the one that wrote this strategy. But if you have in the text so much mentioned independently, independently, professionally, ethically, then it's either excess or you're covering something with it. And after all these years, it's only understandable that actually justice and judges must be independent, professional and ethical. We've been making assumptions since 2000 that that's how it should be. And if we've been repeating the same story of independence, professionalism, ethics as the main objectives of the strategy since 2000, then the strategy is still at a very global and general level, not at a level that should be more concrete, more precise, more targeted, more targeted at quite certain goals. And it seems to me that he could have been a different language of strategy to me as a layman, to me as an ordinary text expert than to the judiciary. And the assumption that such a thing was possible was that the strategy had a simple assessment of the situation, not a list of successes and achievements, but an act. When you talk about old cases, how many of them there are, how long they last in what area, what kind of case is old, what kind of court is it then that we know afterwards whether it's administrative courts, mistrials, criminal courts, whether it's the State Judiciary Council or something else, then I'd know as an agent what we're talking about. And this is the kind of material I have from that age that my colleagues here on the right often refer to as a diabolical age, so material with general characteristics, regardless of ideological signs. But when it comes before us to the Parliament and when at this absent moment not for the EU, we have brought this story to an end more or less than for Croatia, Croatia has a problem with its judiciary not Europe, then that language should be a more specific language, and it is not concrete enough. If someone analyzed it to you and counted how many times certain words appear then you would see that this text simply has too many words that are repeated and too few of those goals that should have. That's what I'm telling you because I believe in you, in your ministry, and in your associates. And I believe that you are able to make exactly that kind of template and based on which my representatives would know how and how we give in the fullest sense of that word trust. Like this. I'll just take a few examples. I mentioned old items, you mention land books. If we had at least 5 sentences about the state of the land books and about the order of land books, we would know what this strategy really means, and we don't have this. Don't mind me saying this, I'm saying it for the best. Not because I would urgently in any way challenge the effort you've put in here, and especially not the goal you want to achieve with this because to that end I will support you. So if this is a document that we have to justify our willingness to achieve in the next few months I support you, but if I talk about what we are together responsible for the same job, you as government policy holders towards the judiciary and we as a representative body have to deal with it, then we need a different language and different facts about the strategy. So the state of land-based books without which there is to a good extent no turnover of capital, there is no assumption that any tax is spoken of, and especially not the real estate tax. There is no assumption that in any way any economic or development capacity has begun in some areas. And from that here in our debate, it won't be any worse if we figure out where our problem is. The question of a reasonable trial, a serious problem that we have, which, in a serious sense, is a difficulty in achieving justice. I understand when you're talking about professionality and ethics, I understand when you're affirming to that extent the Judicial Academy as a key place that should be provided, and we all know that it takes a few generations to pass. It's not one generation enough, it takes a few generations to make it happen. But we can't wait another four generations for this situation to happen either at the state of law school and especially at the Judicial Academy. You mention the inspection you have at the ministry as important or the supervision you have in the inspection as an important instrument, it would be very important for you to tell us in 5 sentences what the basic results of the inspection have been in the past two or three years. It's very important. Now, as long as you get partners today in achieving your strategy, and that here, maybe it doesn't have to be Mr. Minister here, maybe I'm saying too many words, maybe you'll give me some other document. But the strategy would be more bloodier, they would communicate better with us and with reality than we're communicating right now. The choice of judges. Yes, we've made changes in the process of selecting judges, but we all know very well that one model works the way people do in it. We've changed the model, but we've kept the people working according to the old model, unfortunately. Some of the weaknesses we've seen before, we've seen them now. That's probably why it takes time. And in that sense, it seems to me to be extremely important, and you mention it in several places when you talk about gaining confidence in the judicial authority by our citizens, by the average citizens of the Republic of Croatia who need to have a greater sense of legal certainty. This certainly represents a serious goal. Some of the proposed measures seem significant to me. They'll really need funds. I don't know who warned that now that the funds are needed. For the last thing you want to achieve by strategy, which means if you have IT assumptions, so if you want to have electronic intellectual technology for archiving, processing, data search, it costs. They cost machines, cost programs, and they cost people who work on them. I don't know if it's still a state of mind that in the State's Attorney's Office we get machines based on donations from certain countries that have interest in helping improve the judiciary. It was like that back in the day. And in that sense, it seems to me that this strategy is a good list of objectives, a good list of fundamental values on the basis of which these objectives are to be achieved, it is undeniable. But what would make this strategy much more communicative, much more convincing than we MPs in the Parliament, in relations with those who share the Ministry's messages and decisions and programmes of the ministry towards the average citizen of the Republic of Croatia are these very few facts that I listed at the beginning. I still have a few minutes left in the war crimes trial. It is said on page 6 that, as a result of action plans, both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Interior have made progress where war crimes trials are conducted impartially and professionally, regardless of the ethnicity of the perpetrators. Several recent convictions in the war crimes trials before our courts unfortunately do not speak in favour of such a claim, nor of the judgments in the case of the Korean bridge, nor of the rulings in the case of Kerestinco, nor of the judge in the case.... They're not talking. I don't want to implicate because it's not the subject here today, but unfortunately and superficial surveillance can also show a superficial analysis of someone who's more focused on it can show that it's neither professionality nor impartiality. And for that reason, it might be better to find another formula for this. I don't doubt your intention, the intensity you've shown in this strategy I'm not questioning, you'll have our support, but some of the formulations are such that there's no need to cover those you don't need to cover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25119	Thank you, Your Honor. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. He is the first and respected representative of Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25120	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a replica of two findings that my colleague Pupovac said. The first is regarding the said thesis that the foundations of independence are hit in 2000 if I have made good notes, the foundations of independence and professionality of the Croatian judiciary. That's what you said. The foundations of independence and professionality and all that is related to the judiciary are that they are hit by the Christmas constitution in 1990 when it comes to the Croatian judiciary. However, this should be taken into account when coming out with such a thesis because it didn't all start in 2000 and change of government but rather the Christmas Constitution of 22 December 1990, which is the basis for the establishment of an independent and sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia at all. It's something I can't agree with. And the other thing is something that I agree with, that's your finding, and that's what my colleague Salapic was talking about on behalf of the club, we can't expect progress in the reform of anything and so on and the judiciary, with less resources. I will also remind you of page 36, so the Commission's statement, the European Commission's statement to the European Parliament and the Council last October, which says that the judiciary budget remains stable and amounts to around 337m euros. This was based on the 2012 budget projections, but it is now down 200 million kuna and is no longer 337 which would satisfy the European Commission, but only 316 million euros. And these 200 million kunas will certainly miss and question further reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25121	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25122	So, when I talked about two thousandths as a year that is relevant for strengthening the independence of judges and people in the judicial authority, then I am talking about the fact that then legal assumptions were created in terms of how and how they were chosen and the duration of their mandate that allowed them to be in a position that they did not have and that made them even more independent than those who had political power and the political system of decision-making, i.e. they were involved in the decision-making system. On the one hand, it showed its advantages, and on the other hand it showed its shortcomings that are even listed here in the Strategy. In one place, it is said explicitly: "The opportunity for professionalism and independence has been given, but has not always been achieved, has not always been reached, has not always been respected in this sense." And that was the purpose of my intervention, and you will surely agree with me knowing your discussions in this House on these topics. And as for money, of course, that is an important assumption for the achievement of this sixth objective defined in the Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25123	Next replica and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25124	Thank you, Mr. President. In your speech, you presented and mentioned the measure of editing the land book, so I will tell you if you wrote in this Strategy at least one indicator that would talk about financial resources, which would be necessary for the realisation of this Strategy, then there would certainly be a data available according to which, in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, the State and Geodetic Administration for the construction of state measurements in the section relating to the real estate catalogue as a basis for the land book, almost 40% of the funds that would allow for the production of catastrases and then land books were seen. Therefore, strategies can write a goodwill that can only be demonstrated through the missing financial resources, and what we know is that the budget almost doubled the resources to the State Geodetic Real Estate Measure, and then from it and the Land Book. Well, apart from the fact that it would be good for the government to provide enough funds to produce a new land-based book, it would be good if the ministry had ordered municipal courts to devote a little more attention to the presentation of data that would allow the production of a land-based book in those catastrian municipalities where the national measurement has already been carried out. Unfortunately, and in that part, the Ministry of Justice does not allow, I would say to a sufficient extent to my municipal courts that they can make new land books and those catastrian municipalities where a new state measure has been made. In fact, by investing in information equipment and catastras and land books, we will get nothing but easier to get the bad information that is going on in the land book today. But we're not going to get any quality, new data except that this information will be made available faster to all users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25125	Thank you very much. We're moving on now with an individual debate over 10 minutes. He is the first respected representative, Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25126	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction with the tone of this debate that gives support to the document. You, Mr. Minister, would probably have even more reason to be happy, since aside from the remarks that all clubs have so far supported this document, especially because the budget funds you did not ask for, the elections are considered one of the important things here. However, the debate I am reporting is not just about that general tone that I'm going to stick to. The idea of a strategy or the concept of a strategy has quite a low popularity. People are largely saturated with that concept. When it comes to strategies, this House has adopted a whole series of strategies, including strategies concerning the judiciary in a period of disputed or not, of Mr Racan's government. There were 22 strategies imagined of which at least one part concerned the judiciary. However, the Strategy is an indispensable document because it does not concern technical details of the implementation and implementation of a particular policy. The strategy is a political document because it sets goals, because it is then a decision concerning all of us, the Parliament as a whole, and it is good that there is this degree of agreement. Simply put, the strategy is to determine what we want to achieve and what we will do for it. In that case, a large part of the strategy is reduced to the first two and a half or three pages of the text explaining the purpose of our entire action or the work of the ministry in judicial reform. These are the reasons why we will all easily agree on the internal nature of our Croatian nature to achieve greater efficiency, achieve independence, professional excellence, restore trust in the judiciary and similarity that must not be considered a phrase but an integral part of the setting of objectives. Mr Vuksic spoke here about the fact that in this strategy there is not enough expression of justice. Yeah, I mean he's not wrong, but that element of justice consists of a vision that stands out here, and that vision that we don't go into detail and persuasion of text is about achieving a society of justice. It is an idealized goal, but a vision can only contain such an idealized goal followed by a mission. These are concrete actions and institutions and bodies. What I want to point out in this is that the ministry in this strategy does not define itself alone. We will adopt the strategy and therefore also concern the Parliament. But it also concerns other important participants in the realization of what is written here, and the judiciary as a whole and the State's Attorney's office and other stakeholders are the whole of this process. They are being held accountable for the implementation of such a strategy, they are being held accountable and for what may not have been pointed out here, which is the fact that this strategy represents one of our international obligations, a commitment to the European Commission and a commitment that we are meeting at this time. I know it's very difficult to achieve all these goals immediately simultaneously simultaneously simultaneously simultaneously and in the conditions of recession, but that's what we need to get used to as a vision and mission. But let me point out some things that I think are specifically important for this kind of paper. They will certainly be discussed or worked out in one part or the number of action plans that follow, but I would like to highlight what I consider more important than the rest and what I believe is written here and should be particularly accepted. Indeed, there are countless times when independence, independence, the objectivity of the judiciary is mentioned. The word that is not sufficiently mentioned, mentioned in this debate, is a responsibility and in every sense that means it. Responsibilities and responsibilities, therefore, for impact and responsibility for action. It is no coincidence that in the debate here it has been highlighted so many times when we discussed the Law on Courts with great agreement that we would like systematic discussions on the state of justice in the Parliament. It's not something where we're looking for a particular right, but we have a responsibility along with other participants. Our responsibility is not special, their responsibility is special but they must share it with us. That is why when we talk about the independence of the judiciary, we must also interpret it in terms of cooperation with all those bodies or all those stakeholders of the process that exist there. I'm not going to talk about time for some other points that should also be highlighted, but in this particular case, I am looking forward to the fact that there is a need for excellence in the judiciary or a little different interpretation of life-long education that is needed here. We are entering a completely new legal system here that will include a large number of European regulations, a huge number of European regulations with which it is not or for which the Croatian judiciary is not properly or sufficiently qualified. What is pointed out here in one special section, which is the europeanisation of the Croatian legal space, we will only see here the indications of this process. We have had one painful and not particularly pleasant experience with the European Court of Human Rights, a large number of cases that Croatia has before that court and relatively unfavourable and awkward practice for us. This will now be repeated to a far greater extent, and for this neither the legal profession nor the judiciary as a functionally important part of the state is fully qualified. So, both the academy and the school and all other forms of education there will have its place. As far as efficiency is concerned, I'm glad, but we've discussed a lot of this with other laws, that it's being pointed out here as a difficulty. But right here in the House, we have supported the amendments to the Law on Prosecution in the Administrative Judiciary and the Court of Justice and the Criminal Law is now coming, so there is a huge legislative problem. And that's where I'm gonna repeat it again, so that's where we're actually discussing the judiciary and its efficiency. Here Mr. Pupovac is welcome by those words that you used on the efficiency, efficiency of the entire system and the need to regulate it nicely and better. But that fine regulation, nice tuning, is something that doesn't stop right away, but it's good that it's a prominent task of this strategy. Let me point one more thing out, it's listed here in two places. First, by the idea of introducing an e-record and second use of the potential of new technologies, it is a special chapter. I don't think we've done enough here to take advantage of all these possibilities. Even then, when we did a lot of informing the Supreme Court and publishing court practice, I don't think we did it according to the best models, but by adapting the whole procedure to the local Croatian situation. But that's where we did it wrong. There are many reasons to advance such already introduced forms. It also concerns land books, of course, because new technologies have proved to be seemingly neutral, do not touch the interests, do not touch the judges, and do not cause their anxiety, do not seem politically motivated, but in the long run contribute to the true success of the judiciary. I know that this strategy can be far longer, larger, better written but I think you should be congratulated on meeting another criterion towards the European Commission in a satisfactory manner and with the support of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25127	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is up to the honourable representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25128	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister with his associates. A few words about a strategy ahead of us, first of all one methodological remark. A few days ago, on the Justice Committee, we discussed who, before the Croatian Parliament, represents which documents, a few months ago, we had a big report from the main state attorney, there was an idea in the Justice Committee that the Croatian Parliament would be referred to as the President of the Supreme Court, and it seems to me that this is the only really roof document from your portfolio, which gives not only an analysis of what has been achieved in the past, which is very well elaborated by this document, but that it is also a key guideline for the years that are ahead of us, so I think that a colleague from the HNS mentioned that you have spoken for three minutes, I suppose it was not in a way to reduce the importance of the topic that we are talking about, but you are probably under the impression of all these discussions last week because they are connected and since they are also long and we know that we are colleagues and diplomats, so even now and politicians would suggest that in fact that we are not even one year've been able to organise a single strategy on a single basis. I think it would be useful, therefore, especially in light of the fact that we are meeting the continuity of the obligation towards the European Union, that today's agenda item is one of those points that are not 10 priority measures in the European Commission's report, but this second part of the Government's revised action plan, which is good that the Croatian public knows even 52 obligations and 107 measures, which are also part of pre-accession monitoring, so from today until 1 July, and especially in light of the European Commission's report in late March or early April is not just 10 points, the point is much higher, and it is precisely for them to pay attention during the period ahead. When it comes to the content of the strategy itself, you have explained in one part of this document what are the reasons why, in a way, in half of the mandate so that I say the current strategy goes into a new strategic document, it is about twice as short, it seems to me to have about 45 pages, this one has 22 pages, you have little idea of the structure and priorities where you have given the emphasis, and most of the measures that I think will be elaborated in the action plan, refer to a strategic guidance that concerns efficiency, and that is quite reasonable and it is quite expected, because that is exactly what Croatian citizens expect, and that is also part of the broader efforts that are being made in the European Union today. It is mentioned in the debate and the word of justice. The European Union in the area you have been working on is working on a strategy of justice throughout the European Union, it is the main line your colleague Viviane Reding has been speaking for years and it is in some way a guarantee of all citizens, and of Croatian and other citizens of the European Union who want to achieve their legal interest in the Republic of Croatia, that institutions that are in charge of this will, within a reasonable period of time, work effectively and in accordance with the law. The Justice Development Strategy also guarantees another key objective, which is also a European objective, which is that trust in the judicial system is a prerequisite for economic development. This link, I think, may not be visible enough in this document, and it is indeed an unforgivable aspect of the quality functioning of the judicial system. What also seems important to me, and since the third priority, the third strategic guideline, the Croatian judiciary as part of the European judiciary is almost identical to the current document that is in force, I think it would be good for these three-quarters of the site to be slightly better elaborated in the action plan. Croatia is a member in 7, 8 months, maybe this worked enough in 2010, but today it seems to me that the part when it comes to concrete activities of the ministry, because the ministry in this strategy has gained more importance than it had in the previous strategy, there was even in the chapter together with the government, here the ministry has one role of engine, one role of the driver and institution that is in charge and for what a colleague from the HDZB has said to provide for all these activities and adequate budgetary resources, because it seems to me that you have in the 2013 budget compared to this year 125 million kuna less than you had, so it is not 200, but I believe that in the analysis and rationalisation you have foreseen that these funds are sufficient to realise all the objectives that they are. Croatia will be part of the European judiciary, so we will appoint a judge of the European court, as well as other courts within the framework of the structure, I think it is important to say something about this in the action plan, and there are activities ahead of us and it would be good for them to be a little wider elaborated. What is important is the aspect of human potential management, it is good that the ministry has an analysis of the plans to fill the place, it is good that on the French-Spanish model we have established a state school for judges and state lawyers as part of the Justice Academy, it is good that the best students of this school get priority in getting the best seats in the justice system because this way we reward those who are quality, who have invested in their knowledge and who will be guaranteeing the quality functioning of the Croatian judiciary. It also seems important to me that the last part of the strategy relating to technological aspects can thus be the step that puts us in the 21st century. You know how demanding the process was to connect therefore and network courts, state attorneys, to enable the system of integrated management of the file to function effectively and therefore it is good that new technologies are also mentioned in this way. Since this document does not talk so much about one of the key aspects, which is the continuation of the anti-corruption strategy, the completion of war crimes issues. I suppose they are, given that these are important processes in some way addressed to specific strategies, but they are not less important. They're of course, I'd say the same level of priority. And perhaps the last aspect that seems important to me and is part of the criteria under Chapter 23 refers to preventing conflicts of interest, as far as I understand it, is still a security check for new members of the commission. It is now a question that, when we look at the technical duration of perhaps a little too long, practically almost a year and something we form the Committee of Conflict of Interest, which is important to prevent all possible ways of conduct that would be in conflict with good practice, with ethics and ultimately contrary to the main principle, and that is the principle of justice and the principle of responsibility of all officials in the system, so I believe that, in this criterion, you will also, in the context of meeting the obligations under Chapter 23, and in part, your chapter regarding obligations under Chapter 24 in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and civil matters, you have a great area of responsibility, and this may be part of the overall social activities in Croatia that have experienced the most radical changes in the last two decades. And that's why it seems to me that this topic is worth one whole year's debate, I'm going back to the suggestion from the beginning of the presentation that it wouldn't be just that we adopted only one in a series of commitments today. This obligation is important, large, indicative and long-term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25129	Thank you, too. And next for the individual debate of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates, and if I may continue here on the last word of my colleague Plenkovic. It is certainly something that is both a commitment and a strategy but everything that is essential that the strategy is a commitment towards ourselves or our citizens, and it was of course very important that many processes are in progress, or negotiations for EU accession, but it is just as important that here and the other day I pointed out here in the assembly that many processes are so strong and so deep, and so deeply let the roots that many negative phenomena unfortunately in Croatia that we have been faced with irretrievably I would say in the root, so nothing will ever be the same again as before. I mean, first of all, the perception of many things, but the perception of corruption, for example, is part of what we call justice in the broadest sense of that word, or the fight against corruption, so there is no confusion. So I agree with my colleague Kregar who told you earlier that often we have brought countless times I would say strategy, but often the perception of strategies as some kind of framework document in public is not very specific. So it is thought that these are documents in which many things, many good intentions are listed, that strategies are a list of good and beautiful desires, but that they are far from reality. I want this strategy to be quite close to reality, so I now make two very well-intentioned remarks. So I think the strategy should have two more important elements. One of which other colleagues talked about is the budget, so if this is a strategy by 2018, then it should have a budget, or if nothing else indicates budgets for some of the most important areas of the strategy. It would certainly be good that for each of the years covered by the strategy we also know at least the indications of the budget on the individual segments that are necessary to achieve the strategy because I think of such a large, important, many issues that need to be addressed, a strategy of course that we cannot achieve without budgetary resources. And on the other hand, I think it would be good for us in certain segments of particular importance for Croatian society such as unsolved items, to point out the goal for all of us, of course for the Ministry of Justice and for all other bodies as much as for what year. I don't think that's impossible anymore, as far as we think we could reach out to these very oldest objects because in the last few years we've had results in this regard. This is how the strategy will be implemented, we will realize that it is being implemented but if we do not set our own goals, I do not know how we will determine what we have realised in the end of 2018, we will discuss how this strategy was achieved by the Croatian Parliament. So, independently, professionally, responsibly, effective justice is what Croatia needs, necessarily based on the economic ambitions that we have, solving the economic crisis without an effective judiciary, fast justice, just justice, without being judged by corrupt judges, of course we can't go forward. I believe this strategy also contributes to that. What I propose, Mr. Minister, is now very specific because here in the analysis of what has been done is very well indicated what we did especially during the negotiations to enter the EU, so here I am grateful to mention and amend the 2010 Constitution and further strengthening of independent bodies that have to be by the logic of things independently, but their additional reinforcement here you have noted I must quote "abstained power to the Croatian Parliament to appoint members of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council". I propose this formulation to have the power taken away in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was changed in the Croatian Assembly of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And it wasn't the Parliament that was seized from power, but the Parliament voluntarily gave up that power in favour of further strengthening the independence of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council. So here's my suggestion that this word is taken away because this is a strategy, this is going to be read, this is going to be analysed to change according to exactly what I underline, and that is the change of the Constitution as you know voted of course by the great majority of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. After all, without 2/3 of the MPs' votes, we Constitution in 2010 and could not change or change. I am pleased that the analysis states that a major shift has been made in the rationalization of too many courts and state lawyers and that you clearly define here how much and in what way and in what direction this rationalisation has taken. Of course it should continue. I point out this because the rationalisation of the judiciary always begins and ends in political decisions. And I know how difficult it was during the period during which we had to open up this rationalization process, how difficult it was and how much resistance it was. They were all for rationalization, but no one gave that for example. His court went out of his city from his place. Everyone fought so hard regardless of their political party membership. In this particular, local leaders were united as never, so whether it belongs to SDP, HDZ or any other party. And one more thing. Because here with the right in the section that speaks of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia you mention how the President of the Supreme Court appointed by the Croatian Parliament and the Attorney General are also elected. Of course, this is a debate only at the principle level so that we could do everything possible if the President of the Supreme Court but also the chief state attorney voted in this House by consensus or at least agreement, not that they were better decided not only by the parliamentary majority but by the fact that it would be nice for those two persons who are institutions themselves to decide the vast majority of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And finally around the Council for Monitoring Implementation of the Justice Reform Strategy. I think that advice should be further strengthened in every sense because that is the place where the body can be properly analysed regardless of the independence of individual bodies, the real achievements of this strategy and of course of all other laws and all that will happen to different countries in that context relating to the judiciary. I certainly think that only new obligations await us by entering the EU, and by then, especially Mr. Ministers with associates until this latest monitoring report, I ask you to work even more courageously, even harder. Nothing is over and I agree with my colleague Plenkovic, the commission to prevent conflicts of interest, is taking too long. I get the impression I'm saying it without any politicizing that for some reason it's stalling. And the case that we are witnessing today about some unresolved questions, for example, Minister Jakovina also creates additional doubts that we do not need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25131	Thank you, too. And the final address of Justice Minister Orsat Milnic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25132	Thank you very much. I'll just be brief, so just like I was short at first. This is the strategy we have made for the future, so we are not dealing with what has been so far, not to mention, what was good, but we now need to make the strategy in a new environment and according to a new situation in which Croatia is located. So this is a strategy that is primarily facing the future. It is seemingly short and shorter than the previous one, but we think it is more methodologically correct because it sets things at the level of a higher document from which it will create an action plan for each particular area that will develop it up in detail. What is important and where is actually the text of the strategy and it will be before you, it has already been and will be, and that is every law we bring. So in every law we pass, you'll see if we stick to what you've adopted here, whether you adopt as a strategy or not. Until now, what's been in front of you is coming out of a picture where we're going and you can see exactly that it's coming out of this. The data mentioned here are not put into strategy because we believe that the strategy does not go, but they go back into each law. So we will discuss land books when you have before you the Law on Land Books, it goes to the government this week, so it will be in the Parliament in January and you will have this chapter and you will see what it says here and you will see what it says in the law. It was also with the bankruptcy law, and it was also with these laws that were last week. So it's something that strategy, action plan, laws that go along with it. With the laws of course we need to discuss and there you will have all the information we have and will be presented and we will be able to discuss each of them. The funds were mentioned. We have as many assets as we have, not just in the judiciary, but in all other segments. The funds are sufficient to implement this strategy. We've made a PFU pattern that goes with this and he's gone and these are the funds that are enough. When we talk about... of course it would be more favourable if there were more, absolutely, it would be easier, sometimes it's hard to run things when there's not enough resources, but with these means, we're going to make sure that these things work and we're going to spend these things ahead of you. As I said before, a whole series of laws have already been before you, you voted them and right in those frameworks. E-Subscribed under the funds, you will soon see the results of the e-scribing, not you, but you as representatives of the citizens. So citizens will be able to see their file in real time what's going on with it. It will be in the next two months for a good part of the case by 6 months for almost all cases in Croatia. So it's going to be before you and that's what you're doing parallelly. That's why it's listed in the strategy as something we're going to do. You mentioned the choice of a judge of the European court. The competition is ongoing, so he's not in the strategy because we're going with it, it's a regular process, we're choosing two judges, so it's ongoing and we're going with it, somewhere in January we're going to solve it. What's important, it's about the backlogs, about the fall in the case, and that's why this strategy is made the way it is, there's an action plan going out and the laws that we're bringing to you are because we've seen that one structural change that needs to be made right now. I'll tell you like this, we started in 2004, since then we've had some more specific data, with a million and 640 thousand items and then we fell very quickly, very quickly, in 2010, it's been at least 785 thousand items and we've been growing ever since. So we've been growing since 2010, we're growing because there's an increased number of files, because there's a crisis, there's an economic situation as it is, but there are certain structural shortcomings that we haven't solved so far. Why? I repeat, whenever someone asks me that I'm not going to get into it, so it was and why it could, why some other countries did something, we didn't, it's important. But what's important now is that we are now teaching and in the framework of this strategy going out with a whole series of laws that are going to sanction it. So these are structural changes now. If you're talking about the law on litigation we had, he should have changed before. No, we're changing it now and changing it in a way that it will lead to the fall of the file because this way we can no longer move. We're always at about 830, 840 grand, that's where we're spinning, we should go down. Violent law has entered a parliamentary debate, and it will also significantly reduce the number of files. The land-book law, too. We talked about the Court Act, the DSV Act, introduces responsibility. Responsibility is one thing that goes with this strategy. The responsibility of the people who work for the result they achieve, for the good service that... the citizens. So that's something we have to do again. One bad thing, also now that we're talking, we've had a drop in the number of cases solved for years, so by the number of judges we're growing, and the number of cases solved is dropping. It's not the result of this year, it's not the past, it's the last one. It's been going on for years. So that's the fact, again the reason why we put it like this. So I'd like to thank you again for supporting the strategy. It is one document that we now need, through which you will measure us as a ministry and watch what we are doing because everything we do through the laws will come out of this strategy and out of the action plans that we will bring. All the comments you've made, which we'll be able to use to improve. Here's another thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25133	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. Josip Boric, first responder. Then I was misrepresented, I'm sorry. Anna Lovrin. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I heard wrong. Dinko Buric. You're the second, you're the one to answer the line. No, no, we're going in order. [[And I'm second, well, well, I'm waiting.]] A fellow Buric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, you said at some point we have as much money as we have. I agree with that, although you know our fundamental remarks, and when the budget was here for the debate, it didn't go quite evenly everywhere, but I'm not going back to what bothered us the most. However, it is not a good finding we have as much as we have because we have certain obligations that we have signed, so in this same statement by the European Commission on the findings... monitoring the preparation of Croatia, they particularly underline that Croatia has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Commission, on participation in EU civil and criminal law programmes and are now undermining. However, it was in the report of October 10th last year. And that's when they pointed it out. However, budgetary constraints, a decrease in the 2012 budget by around 28% compared to 2011 have an impact on the functioning in this case... The academy, and now imagine, when we still have 200 million kunas less resources, even though we're in rebalancing, I know we've raised 72 million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But now we have 200 million less than we had in 2012. And it cannot go without certain consequences for not only the functioning of the judiciary but also respecting our acts signed with the European Commission. So in that sense, it's not good so easy just to say how much we have. You know, we also have some obligations that we put on our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25135	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25136	Thank you very much. Here is the memo that you mentioned next week in Zagreb will be a seminar teaching on this memo. So, we've provided the funds that we've been in debt and our judges and state lawyers will go through the education provided for in that memo. So, that when I said I said we'd make sure it worked. Of course, many things would be much easier, making them much easier if we had more money. But there are frameworks in which we are. What are our obligations as well as those of the memo will be respected, and I say we respect them here and now and next week. There may be a bigger problem with us having too little response because we have 20 seats and we have, I don't know, 10 people who answered. So it's not a problem with resources, it's just a problem that people are encouraged to go there. That's the problem. But let's let it go. So the means that they are make it possible to function. With every law we keep an eye out for you. The other day we were talking about the Law of Prosecution. Of course, he won't do it by himself, he'll cut certain costs from postage to length of proceedings. He won't be seen tomorrow, but when he does, so over the year next that goes you'll see that the cost begins to fall. So, what we, what we send to the Parliament that are laws, they have that element. Of course, we've always taken care of it. Some things might be a bigger step, but we're always trying to be within the budget and within what I've said as much as we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25137	Thank you. Next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Minister, you've started your speech again with this strategy being something new, moving in a whole new environment and creating something new. What I can read is that in Croatia there is something very new, new to this so far it is Croatia's EU accession. And in this context, our judiciary will have to function within the European legal system and apply European law. But this is not so new about the strategy, because I also read the thematic area, so the strategic guidelines of the current strategy had a thematic whole of the Croatian judiciary as part of the European judiciary. That's how this strategy works. The list of measures is identical except in some language terms, but essentially identical to the four measures that existed in the current strategy are also foreseen in this new one. So there's no newspaper here, but you don't have to. I think it's a good thing it doesn't. Because judicial reform needs to flow systematically and continuously, and that's why I'm saying they're substrategic documents like an action plan. Those documents that can then react. You said, for example, that the ZPP should have changed before. The PPP was gradually changed, so first for one part of the procedure. In your own reasoning of the law, you have given reasons, so that you have assessed the effects of the application in that part of the procedure and have concluded that it has achieved certain effects to apply to all procedures and that I consider it to be good. But I'm not reading anything so special new. Therefore, I claim that the strategy is one continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25139	Thank you. The reply to the replica, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25140	Thank you very much. So, like I said we strategy we made for the future. We don't look back at what's happened so far, and I have no intention of being here in any document, no law to analyze what was done, which was not, which could have happened, etc. We could talk about it a lot, because there's a whole series of things that we could have done in the past time that there's been money, and now we have to do at this point in the conditions that we have. Let me tell you that we found a ministry with 1,000 and I mean 50 people at a certain time in the judicial system. The question is, some of them work seven and eight years later. The question arises why we didn't hire them at the time when we had the conditions, but we dragged them to a certain time and now we have one problem. It's a practice we can't continue with. There are limits and budgets, and now we have to do something about it. So there's a whole series of things that could be done or we want to edit the courts. Well, you know how many courts have been arranged in the past time that they're giving up because they're not perspective. We could also do a list now. But that's something we won't reopen. And that's why I said the strategy is new, because all the laws that come before you will be able to compare with what we wrote, with what will be written in the action plan and you will be able to tell us this, now do this if we step down. And she's different in that than she's ever been before. That's why it's shorter, more transparent and clearer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25141	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25142	We're going to vote on completed issues and debates last week or the past two weeks, last week. The first is the proposal for a strategy for the development of the judiciary for the period from 2013 to 2018. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a strategy. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously, with 123 gas for, we have brought the Justice Development Strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018 in the text proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25143	We move on to - Final bill on amendments to the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 191. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25144	Thank you very much. In front of you is the final proposal of the Penal Code. I'm just going to point very briefly at two, three things that are changing in relation to the proposal so far. So, in addition to the technical harmonisations that are, for example, in the case of illegal investment and movement within the Republic of Croatia, we are here harmonising with certain international documents of some of the other technical developments, what is most important and what we are changing here, and the result is the debate here in the Assembly, which is in Article 132. So, since 1 January of this year, next year, we have a whole new concept of criminal law. We're changing and introducing this salary default as a felony. The result, so when we went through what needs to be changed in criminal law, we analyzed and we noticed that we needed to correct the current norm, and now I'm going to say why. So let's go like this there, of course we've heard and what are the figures, very many situations where workers work and don't get paid. We have predicted so far in the law and the exclusion of illegality, so when there are legitimate economic reasons for this, I should now shorten the reasoning and it has been rightly done so far. However, given our amendments to the executive law and the law on the collection of financial resources by which we made the first payment account a document similar to that for payment, even though he was named as an executive id by so far in the Labour Act, but we simply didn't have him so enforceable we did so. And we have some results on that plan. So, the executions, though very few of them, I think that 27 of them are at this point on that basis, but the question arises how to highlight the need for it I would say by paying the wages. We decided that by analysing the whole article we decided to add a new item and briefly, so now we say this: whoever didn't pay is potentially in the criminal act. In a criminal offence, it is not if there is a valid reason, an economically justified reason. This is paragraph 3. However, if that person has not given a salary account, then the exclusion of illegality shall not apply. So that's one approach that we and the crime will make much clearer, if you want, and much more suitable for prosecution. Because criminal persecution will also be simpler in certain cases. There's no excuse not to get paid. We said there could be an economic reason for not paying off, it exists in law, however, that this bill that costs 10, 20, 30 limes can't be justified. That's why we introduced that item 4. The last question here has also been raised about the effectiveness of the offence. Because we leave this as a felony. So, what's important is we didn't prescribe this as a criminal offense for not paying wages like some proposals, we think it would be the wrong direction, we simply foreclosure this as a reason to prevent this exclusion of illegality. Why? This is the pay account itself as an offence is the fact that in 2010 and 2011, 1882 are accused proposals, meaning for this offence, that 634 decisions have been made by law enforcement courts and that fines of nearly 10 million kuna, 9 million 550 thousand and something like that kuna have been imposed. So, what I'm trying to say is that it works the way it works. So, the employer who doesn't pay the salary is in violation. However, an employer who does not pay his salary and has not given the bill cannot be called for an economic reason. So that's what the fundamental change here is about what we're going to do with our changes to the executive and the Financial Payment Act is going to encourage a much greater impact. Because now the worker can practically go to FINA by calculating the next day and have a very effective way of charging. Here, that means that one significant change in relation to the proposal so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25145	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I must express my satisfaction after the Prime Minister's opening statement on the amendment to Article 132 which takes effect on the following year, which was incorporated in this proposal for a second reading on the basis of a united debate on our and your proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Code. The arguments you made, but to understand what it's about, you're right. The existing Penal Code stipulates that failure to pay is a criminal offence and a suspended sentence of up to three years in prison. These penalties are protected by employers who have not paid their wages because they were unable to dispose of financial resources because they simply had no money. And what we have proposed in our amendments and additions that if they do not already have the money to pay their salaries, they must give confirmation of unpaid wages, part of wages and other things, and you have now found a solution that impunity as a criminal offence will not apply, and that is, Article 132, paragraph 3, if it has not issued a certificate. Indeed, for all workers working in companies with employers who for economic and financial reasons will not be paid salaries, and will receive certificates of unpaid part of the salary we open up the possibility of payment through the executive procedure. According to my data, about 8% of success in the last few months of the executive procedure of the total number of non-payment salaries is carried out. And that part and this change in Article 132 as you have suggested we accept it and consider it a good one, but not a complete solution. I'm going to try to explain to you why. If the employer who has the money does not pay the salary and does not confirm that the salary has not been paid, you shall refer the workers to two other instruments of protection of their rights, to report to the employer and responds to it as referred to in Article 132, and shall report it to the labour inspector in breach of the law, and that is correct. You gave the data somewhere about a thousand 200 misdemeanors, a thousand 200 round, nine and a half million kunas of fines charged, I calculated quickly that is 0.07 per cent of total unpaid salaries in this calendar year alone, in 2012. And now look at the absurd situations, it's not about the employer who's in trouble, it's about who didn't pay the salary. What good would it be for a worker to be prosecuted by the State's Attorney's office? He won't come to his salary for that. What good would it be for an inspector to impose a penalty infraction of 61 thousand not lower, a worker will not come to pay. Not only will there be no salary, there will be no certificate of unpaid salary because the inspector's record is not an executive document. The decision of the criminal court to punish the employer for not issuing the certificate is not an executive document, and these workers, in order to get their salaries instead of the executive procedure and the executive documents, will have to go to a civil suit to claim their salaries. The inspector’s record may be one of the evidence that the court will accept, the criminal penalty imposed by the criminal court may also be another proof that it did happen, but in a misdemeanour procedure it then does not determine the amount of the worker’s claim but it is found that no salary has been paid and in the claim for non-payment, the worker must prove how much he is seeking, based on the legal act of the collective contract, the rules, the settlement, the law and anything else. And now we've put these people in a difficult situation... who work with employers who are not in difficulty and they can only appeal through court to obtain claims for their salaries of 6, 7, 8 months... [[You don't understand.]] And now the question arises if the threat of not issuing the certificate as you have suggested it, and it will have effect, you know that you have the effect, those who have advised you to install it into the law are right, that there are a lot of 10 examples of such that they sanction criminally, why the workers of these employers who do not pay out of obstetrics are put in a more difficult position. [[You don't understand.]] The last time I said it, I repeat, it's not our purpose to prosecute employers and lock them up in prison, but to make a criminal threat to do it so that the certification doesn't come. The worker who presses charges against the employer for non-payment of wages gets fired, you know, the worker who reports the employer for non-payment of salaries gets fired, because anonymous applications are not worth it, because in the application you have to write down which worker didn't get paid, because this one will find two, three who got, and those who didn't get that day, or when most often the inspector announces their arrival, those workers have the day off, they have the day off, they're not in the factory, they're in the plant, workshops, halls, warehouses, anywhere else. And now, if you had accepted the second part of our sentence, and as regards paragraph 1, you would have predicted it as a criminal offence, you would have actually given the threat to those who are more rude, more boastful, more unjust than those who are provided for in Article 132, paragraph 3, we wanted to do so, any non-confirmation for each worker must be a criminal offence. The goal, the result must be confirmation, that was the essence of our proposal last time. I am sorry that you do not accept this proposal as a whole, who advises you is really not clear to me, who is afraid that employers who have money and do not pay the wages are not threatened and prosecuted for not issuing a certificate I do not understand, I simply cannot understand it, and these are the ones who know who buy the most expensive new cars, here in this part of Zagreb at the end of the night they usually park Tkalčić's, come to coffee in that neighborhood of Zagreb, not even the police can come to move the wrongly parked cars, let alone make the order and scare them. So in front of him, we're afraid to go threatening prosecution for not giving a certificate. Who are we protecting? It's just that we don't have the courage to say that they've been committed by a double crime. You didn't pay the salary, you didn't give the bill, and you didn't pay the check. When I defended the proposal that Article 132 must be a non-declaration of the criminal act, it was heard that it was populism. Then our populist proposal in half the content you accepted. I hope that those who have called our proposal populism will not now accuse you of populism because it is a dangerous thing, because then I will have to accuse them of being demagogues, not to understand good proposals, of rejecting good proposals and ministers' efforts to sanction hanging employers. So that the play of these words about populism and demagogy can sometimes be very dangerous in the Parliament, especially when you hear the profession and people who are operating a criminal procedure. When they say it's something good, when the people who run the criminal procedure say it'll help us make order and don't be afraid that we'll have too much to do for it. This should also be listened to this first part if you had listened to them, as these are the most often also those who are on the list of taxpayers for contributions to pension and health, on the list of taxpayers for proving the origin of the property or the difference in income and the value of the assets they have. And they will now turn out to be less of a criminal threat than those who have come to difficulties, let's say, because of the economic and financial crisis. Them... from this opportunity and that responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have until Friday until the minister's vote, read again our entire proposal, you will see that we are offering a solution that will be in line with the next sentence of the Government Programme. So far, workers' rights have been ignored and violated without sanctions for violations and without the protection of damaged workers. We'll change that. It says in the Government Programme only if, in the meantime, the Government Programme has changed its name to the document we have not promised anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25147	Thank you. We have the Minister's address. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25148	So thank you very much for all the suggestions you've made so far. But what I said, I think that with this proposal, we found the right measure to protect both the best and the workers and to make that salary calculation as a way to collect. So you said yourself you didn't want everyone to go to jail. But you can't choose that. That doesn't have an exclusive. No one can say you're going, you're not going. Either it's a felony or it's not a crime. If the bill pays a felony, then everyone goes to jail, yeah. So, we've said the crime is a non-payment of wages as it was set up in the event of economic reasons then excludes illegality. But we said that those employers who didn't give the bill can't be called to economic differences and that's exactly what you're talking about. Absolutely. So whoever has the money, who buys himself a luxury car, doesn't pay his salary, and doesn't give a reckoning, he won't be able to call on it, and he'll go to jail for not paying his salary, not because he didn't give up the reckoning. The calculation remains in the sphere of offense and it's one approach that actually gives what we're saying all the time. Penalty law is an exclusive right. It's a crime of default, but if you didn't pay the bill, you can't exculpate the economic reasons because there's no reason not to give the bill, and that's why we set it up. And if you're just not counting then it's a matter of offense because look at this proposal if it were a crime. Then the employer who gave the pay and didn't give the bill would go to jail because it would be an independent crime. But we say it remains a violation. But that's why you, who didn't pay, are in a felony unless they have economic reasons, and in that case, you won't be able to call unless you've given a reckoning. And that's how we connect the reckoning through this. And I've told you information about criminal liability, and we don't think a salary bill can be an independent crime. That's why we didn't go to that solution otherwise we'd have provisions on acquisitions, otherwise we'd have two independent acts and we didn't, we don't think so, but I'd say the employer would also answer the criminal who didn't give the bill and gave the salary according to the solution that was proposed. That's why I think this is better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25149	Thank you. Replica, here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25150	Short Secretary. That employer who pays his salary, not that the bill goes to the IRS. That can't happen. You know that. It's a second resort, so it's not that much to worry about. And the one who pays the salary and not that the bill is the subject of tax processing, so you're wrong that he's not being prosecuted. But look, they're going to be punished by a prison sentence of up to three years. So the judge autonomously decides on the height of the sentence under Article 132. So if he didn't give the crying or confirmation, then we'll renegotiate three, if he didn't give the crying and he gave the confirmation, then the judge will give him a softer one. So it's not true because if a single sentence was prescribed here to write will be punished by prison for three years, then we'd be right. But when it's written down to three years, it's exactly different by saying sanctions, penalties, it's the difference between committing two crimes and you're right. The difference between you and us is that you represent the thesis of only one crime, and we believe that there should be two crimes. Time will show us that we were right. And as you have in the meantime accepted this first part will be in your interest due to the state budget to accept this second part, not in this, in the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25151	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25152	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the text of the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. The essence of these final changes and additions are not we Article 132. But we certainly support it. We also supported this in our first reading as a club that the non-payment of a non-payment certificate should be treated in a certain sense in the criminal justice sphere as a criminal sanction without questioning this punishment because it is also an offence, if paid, and not issued a certificate. And in that case, in the case of payment of salary contributions and salary contributions, it is also a sphere of tax offense. As a club, we supported this so it doesn't make sense that the worker doesn't have an executive correction that can ask for his honest salary from the employer without the employer having any responsibility if he doesn't issue a certificate. And this intervention in the final text of the law is the contribution of our debate in the first reading, and that is what we as the HDSSB club support. But what are further amendments and additions to the law is the truth that we have a new Penal Code that has completely changed the sphere of criminal law and will enter into force on 1 January 2013. In the last two, three weeks, we've had a lot of debate, we've come up with a lot of new legal proposals, all to comply with the new Penal Code that's about to come into effect. What the HDSSB Club does not support in this final text of the bill is what is the largest part of these amendments and the addition of the law given as an explanation, which is that this resolution of the use of easy drugs for its own use is no longer treated as a criminal offence but goes into the sphere of offense. We advocate that in Croatia, on the principle of non-bis and I go I should not judge anyone twice in the same thing, but we do not agree with what is provided for in the previous regulations of Article 191.Article 1 is treated as a violation now. The reason given is not completely changed compared to the first reading, it is no longer written as a lifestyle that the trend of modern criminal law is treated as a modern lifestyle using drugs for its own use, prostitution, drinking in nightlife, etc. I see it's been thrown out of this final text of the bill and that's good. We believe that we are in a transitional period when our country enters the EU and certainly messages to younger generations and those who first go out and first face these problems cannot be messages. It may be a lifestyle for some other countries, but in the Republic of Croatia at the moment still an economically difficult moment when parents may receive or see under Article 132 they do not receive salaries and even confirm that we cannot teach younger generations that the modern trend of life is intoxication, prostitution and drug use for our own purposes. We are in favour of keeping this in the sphere of criminality, and in that part not to predict the punishment of prison but that it is a strong message that this is still a stronger step in unauthorized Croatian law that this punishment should not be a prison sentence but could be a work for a general good for a period of 6 months or up to a year. It is good that they strive for forms, dealers and all others remain in the sphere of serious crime, but we consider it a bad message that this act is no longer a crime. That with now... statistics as much as it is the burden of state courts, what the burden of the state's attorney's office is. We see that the county courts are relieved that these cases go to municipal courts. These are some solutions to the functioning of the judiciary and courts, but the HDSSB club in no case in this part of the criminal law can support that this is no longer a crime but a violation, which means that those who have more financial resources and money can pay for it not to go to jail, can repeat the acts, can freely move in the night life among young people and this is one message that this modern style and way of life than using drugs for their own use today and tomorrow can be something worse and heroin and cocaine. And that's something that we think shouldn't and shouldn't be a lifestyle, and we can't support that part of it, and we're staying in that opinion from the first reading that it shouldn't be meant as a crime and as a crime, but only as a crime, and that it shouldn't be a prison sentence, it should be a punishment for working for the common good. We have seen under the new laws that there are other alternative measures of punishment and the system of probation and the system of work for the common good is something that will certainly give a warning that this is an act that should no longer be repeated. In this second part of the law, aligning with international contracts is what we certainly support. Nomotechnically arranged articles of the law too. Newspapers on the regulation of the matter of illegal games are fortunate to include illegal gambling in those cases where there are not all envisaged permits and concessions when the resulting work on black, non-payment of taxes and other taxes to the state and the provision of gambling to minors is included. We consider it a good thing that it entered the sphere of criminal responsibility, Article 237. The penal code no longer applies to chain games but to all gambling and that the necessary permits and concessions to pay taxes to the state should certainly no longer be a sphere of offense but a sphere of crime, and that is to change the law that we as a club support. Also, not reporting a crime committed in connection with the inviolability of a confessional secret. The confession of the secret according to the contracts with the Holy Table remains invulnerable, which we discussed. We, as a club, continue to advocate, and that remains in your bill that confession is secret according to the contracts with the Holy Table uninjured. As for all other provisions of the Penal Code, we have so far held discussions in all amendments and additions so far, although the law will enter into force in less than a month, we have supported it. In this section as I said in the introduction because of a different opinion when it comes to what is crucial and the reasoning of this law, the treatment of this crime, or no longer under the bill, now the violation, the use of drugs for its own use to be removed from criminal responsibility, we cannot support it even though we think that the other provisions of the Penal Code are good, that this is a modern trend and a complete change of Croatian criminal law. That's what we support, but what we can't consider is still a bad message. There is a possibility that this could be treated differently, not all of which are being punished and filled with Croatian prisons, but that this is going into the sphere of crime and that only fine is being paid without any other consequences, and we believe that it is not good and that we cannot support it as a club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25153	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25154	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we have a second reading of amendments and additions to the Penal Code. I will be free to say that in this case the legions of a year proved to be very useful because it allowed us to consider, even after the election of this law in the Assembly, its individual provisions, to consider what their effect would be in the case of application in practice and where it is necessary to intervene in them and to change them before the entry into force. In that sense, at the first ball, this bill could only be considered a technical amendment and a supplement, but of course it is not. That he's not visible is from two aspects. The first is the aspect discussed by counterpart Lesar, i.e. the installation of certain elements of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code proposed by colleagues from the Croatian Labour Party. However, the promoter and not even the SDP, so in a concrete proposal he could not accept, and in this direction he went with something that we might call a medium solution, which we consider very good in the SDP. Namely, not issuing a non-payment certificate will not be treated as an independent, in particular a criminal offence, but it will be a difficult, or easy environment. The difficult circumstance in the case where the employer does not issue such a certificate, and the eased circumstance when the employer issues such a certificate, when in the situation that he cannot pay for economic reasons by issuing such a certificate, he will exculpate himself because it will show that his goal was not to pay the worker a salary but simply to deal with such a situation where it is because of the economic situation, because of the situation on the market simply is not able to do so. Given that our criminal legislation rests on guilt, and such behaviour by the employer or the defendant shows that he is not guilty of the situation in which he was found then, of course, it is logical that the failure to issue such a certificate is a minor circumstance, i.e. a circumstance that excludes guilt and consequential punishment. However, since this proposal, colleagues from the Croatian Labour Party whom we consider useful as a proposal but unacceptable in the way it was proposed, it is much more attention, it is a much bigger storm, a much more intense debate has caused the proposal to consume or mediate smaller amounts of intoxicating drugs for personal use to be transferred from the sphere of criminal law to breaking legislation. So I'm going to repeat something that we've said several times, which we talked about in our first reading. This isn't about legalization, it's not about decriminalization. It is simply a matter of transferring drug possessions from criminal to criminal law. Of course that's what we consider good, but that's not the idea of today. In preparation for this debate, I came across the writings of Augustus Wolver, a person who is unknown to the general public but was a highly-ranked U.S. police officer from a period of prohibition, or a period not later than the end of prohibition, which in 1936 wrote about the criminalisation of the use of intoxicating drugs, said the following. The strict laws, spectacular pursuits, harsh persecution, and prosecution of addicts have proved to be not only useless and overpriced in preventing this evil but they are unjustly and incredibly cruel in their application to the victims of drugs. The repression pushed this vice underground and produced a caste of drug traffickers and drug dealers who were incredibly rich using this bad practice. So police officers, let's say, the pillar of the democratic order of the Western world, in 1936, after a very negative experience with prohibition, realized that bans do not solve anything, at least not when it comes to addiction. The top police officers realized nearly a century ago that the fight against addiction was led not by bans but by prevention and care for those who had become ill with addiction. Because as we said in our first reading, addiction is a disease, and so far we have punished patients further through criminal law. My colleague Salapic spoke before me about how they consider what he thinks, or the HDSSB club, that we should not encourage prostitution, drug use, Czechholism. Of course we don't. So who's doing it? Who says that drinking intoxicating drugs and alcohol is socially acceptable and even useful? We don't. We are merely expressing our thoughts, that the fight against these evils so far has shown that the approach is not good and in such a situation when we have an approach that is clearly not good at this approach we must change something. Our proposal for change is to move something from the criminal sphere to breaking legislation. In the first reading when we talked about this topic, we reached out to practice from several European countries in Portugal where the number of users of intoxicating drugs decreased, from the Czech Republic, which showed that after exactly the same change, the addicts began to appear to health institutions, that today the Czech Republic is a country with the smallest spread of HIV and hepatitis C amongst the addicts, etc. However, today I would add two more facts. All experts involved in the analysis of such measures when applied in these countries are complex if, in any other case, neither country that has made such a step in criminal law has been increased by the number of users of the intoxicating drugs, i.e. an increase in addicts. So, all the practice so far has shown that this measure does nothing wrong. Then let's implement it, see if it brings anything new into our system. And for the end. The well-known Nobel laureate Milton Friedman has, in his time, referred to criminalisation, or decriminalisation of drugs, as a fact. With a small change in the fight against drugs, the United States economy would lead to a surplus of $60 billion in the budget. But not just that. This year's approach to the fight against intoxicating drugs, and we know that in the United States, it is very repressive, leads to nearly 10,000 deaths, resulting in violent criminal meals, resulting from drug consumption. If the measures were applied and the repression against the users was reduced, and all the apparatus was directed exclusively at those who earn money on the drug, the revenue would be increased in the budget, the death rate would be reduced. I think this is what it gives us to think about and it tells us that we should certainly support this direction in the fight against intoxicating drugs. Of course, the SDP club supports this kind of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25155	Thank you, too. We have four replicas. Ana Lovrin came forward first for the replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25156	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Grbin, you said this vacatio legion was useful to this law so it showed what in practice, how in practice, etc. I warn you, there was no practice. That law didn't come into force. He will only enter 1.1.2013. Therefore, vacatio legis has been left to all those who need to apply this law to prepare for it and to the institutions and the judiciary etc. Get ready. What happened didn't happen because of the usefulness of extracting the legions and that period. It happened simply because, there were discussions both in the professional public and in the general public, there were arguments pro and counter to keep it in the criminal sphere or going into the criminal sphere. And then the political option decided, as I will later say, to keep it in the criminal sphere. The political option has changed. That's what you promised before the election. You represented that position when you were in opposition. Now you've come to power and you've simply changed that. No vacatio legions have ever been of any use to you here. And what you're saying is it's no decriminalization. Well, my colleague, for God's sake, we've already said that. How is it not decriminalization? So, crime is a felony. If something comes out of the sphere of criminal law and no longer has the mark of a crime, then it's decriminalization. She remains in a punishable sphere but is no longer a criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25157	Thank you. A reply to the replica of my colleague, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25158	Here's a thank you. Yes, I may have committed a lapus, but the fact is that if the law was not applied in practice, it was thought about, it was thought about and intervened in it because over these years we have considered certain provisions that may not be so good and so effective in practice. And as for what, of course, I won't say we're wasting the most time, but what we're talking about most is just one article in 91 and 92 articles in these amendments and additions to the Penal Code. For example, no one was talking about the abuse of intoxicating assets in sport, about a big problem that bothers the whole professional, so I'd say the amateur sport of today. We saw that one Lance Armstrong we thought was the greatest athlete was actually a fraud. And that's what we're talking about in this Penal Code, but of course it's not as interesting to the general public as this intoxication procedure. As for our pre-election promise, that indeed a different way of punishing the use of intoxicating drugs was a pre-election promise to the Kukuriku coalition, the SDP. Well, we're proud to keep our pre-election promises. Should we be ashamed of that? No, of course not. And that, colleagues, this isn't about decriminalization. As far as I'm aware of from college, criminal law in a broad sense also includes criminal law, including violations. At least that's how they taught me. If Professor Josipovic is wrong about this, then I really don't know who else to address in the matter of criminal proceedings, criminal material law. That's why this isn't decriminalization, it's moving from one sphere to another. And personally, personally, because now I'm speaking in person, not in the name of the club. I hope that one day the decriminalization will be in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25159	Thank you. Next replica, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, I, of course, exchange opinions in the replicas with a colleague of the coat of arms, and I also think it's decriminalization. So if something like a fellow coat of arms from one sphere goes to another, then it becomes a violation, but for me it is now less important in this replica. There's something else I want to point out to you. So, you said that it was "to possess small amounts of drugs" and that it was a transfer to criminal responsibility, or that it was a criminal offence. I warn you that the existing Penal Code does not know, absolutely does not know the term of possession of small quantities or small amounts of drugs. The law and article that are now foreseen to change knows only the possession of drugs, or substances, etc., and nowhere is it mentioned about the possession of smaller quantities of drugs, let alone for personal use. It's something that doesn't exist in the law. The law does not know the possession of small or small quantities of drugs for personal use. So any drug dealer can say for any amount of drugs found on him it's for his personal use. And say when you say wait, and why do you have half a kilo of something to say, look, my needs are great. And secondly, about this term, the vacacio legion that my colleague Lovrin was talking about, you said that here she was during that period we realized that it wasn't good. This decriminalization of drug possession has nothing to do with vacacio legis. It's absolutely because it's simply about the view of life, about the view of this problem. So we have or rather two concepts about how we view the problem of drug possession and how we view the fight against drug dangers in the Republic of Croatia. And vacatio legis doesn't play any role here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25161	Thank you. Replication response, colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25162	So here's the first part I'm not going to repeat the answer, it's the same as with my colleague Lovrin, possession in every form remains punishable and in the criminal sphere. However, what you were saying today was a big problem today. Because, for example, You get caught with two kilos of marijuana and then you come to court and say that's for personal use. And so far, the case-law, rich court practice, and not the law, has determined whether to believe you, will they say that it is indeed for personal use and condemn you to a sentence that is conditional or monetary under Article 173(1) or will say no, not two kilograms cannot possibly be for personal use, they can only be for further sale or to lead other persons to the consumption of intoxicating drugs and will then punish you under Article 173(2) or 173(5). A criminal law that is currently in force. Court practice, courts when it was first reading about it we talked about. Officers with years of experience who better than anyone in this room know if it's possession for personal use or for further reselling. Control evidence, possession of scales, possession of various other means of repacking and further selling. We can't, we can't go in, I'd say in a trap she entered, for example. The Czech Republic used this measure to prescribe the quantities of intoxicating drugs and say 15 grams of marijuana I don't know how many grams of hashish etc. Because only then, if we say so, will the dealers always have 14 grams of marijuana, 2 grams of hashish, etc. All in all, just for the end, if it really hadn't been for the vacuum of the legion, we'd be changing this because this is our attitude. But 90 other articles are not, and consider the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25163	Time. Thank you. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what I'd really like to say if I didn't repeat the replicas my colleagues have brought out here right now, but I'd like to tell you something. It's about attitudes. So here's a colleague of the coat of arms do you think the judges are going to walk the streets and public places and in reality hunt these drug dealers or the users of these drugs for their own use? So just imagine, here's a look and you remember some movies and that's how it is with us, none of them keep a scale or a pound or a kilo on the road, but keeps one roll, holds a bag of marijuana, holds two pills. That'll be done by the police. And he'll tell the police every time it's for my own use. He'll come to the judge and he'll tell this judge so there's really one pill, but there's an extra amount of marijuana, some bags and some pills around that corner. Each and every one of them now, so this violation law is now in violation you've loosened the market in the reality of drug dealers. You gave them a great motive. They're not even going to deal with 3, 4, 5 kilos anymore, but on every corner. I wonder how you think that's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25165	Thank you. Replication response, colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25166	Thank you. So here's a colleague of the Croatian Police has a decades-long practice in the fight against intoxicating drugs and the Croatian police know when they meet someone, most of those police inspectors I used to talk about and at first sight, whether it's a person who only has this joint for personal use or someone they have in their files, who they have in their notorous police files and who they know is around the corner or in the apartment there's other means for further sale. In such a case, the police inspector will go to the state's attorney, get a search warrant, go to the premises used by such a dealer and find there if it really was a dealer or an additional amount of intoxicating funds or a means of repacking, measuring and so on. And as for decriminalisation, legalization and others, we can also call them unconventional, but we can also call them modern anti-drug measures, I'm going to point to a precedent that took place in California, when a referendum a few years ago tried to decriminalize drug use. Do you know who was most opposed to such measures? Well, illegal producers. And do you know why? Because at that time, their market would fall, and most of all, they were afraid that maybe tomorrow they wouldn't have to pay taxes to the state for what they were producing. They are not afraid of crime dealers, as they were not afraid during the prohibition in the United States, they are afraid of others, that police officers will have time to deal with them after such measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25167	Thank you. And the last replica of Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy. [[Intruder: You have nothing to replicate.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25168	God save me, this thing that I'm gonna listen to I really don't know. I don't know if you understand what kind of message you're sending, why are we rebelling against this? So you send dealers in front of schools, you send out, it's a basic problem, you tell kids it's not dangerous, so it's punishable, it's something for personal use, like a scone to take. You send dealers to our schools, that's the basic problem. This is a disease, we're talking about addiction, addiction as a disease starts with small amounts, you make it possible and you talk our kids into taking no problem, no one can get you anything, mom and dad to find out if they're going to find out. We don't care what's in California or what's in California, we're talking about our kids, and I have kids who are still, two more high school kids, I don't know if you even know what you're talking about. So believe that by reducing repression, you'll act preventively on something, it's the same as saying we're going to reduce the penalty for bank robbery, so it's going to fall, it's not going to be, we're not going to punish them by jail, it's going to be a felony, and what do you think you're going to do to reduce bank robbers, the number of bank robberies? And God forbid they still rebel so they don't have to pay their taxes to the state because they're robbed. I really can't believe this. You know what, you said you were proud of this. It becomes clear to me now that indeed this year the government here, this government as if it's high-ranking, you know, and you really don't know the ruling majority right now, you just have to convince the Croatian people, well drug it, but you need to find the drugs to convince it, and yet it's not... that the way you rule, and the laws you propose here are for the benefit of Croatian citizens. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25169	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25170	Here I really never thought I'd hear anything like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25171	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25172	... The words of a esteemed colleague, Buric, of course I have a reply to the replica. [[You don't understand.]] No matter where you come from, it comes to your mind that anyone would send dealers before school. No matter what you're talking about. So all the time we're very clear that this is exactly the way to grotesque police forces from catching those kids who planted one stem, to catch those students who were found with one joint, to transfer the grotesque police forces to hunting just those dealers, that's exactly what this is about. That's exactly what you were talking about, but obviously you weren't listening to the minister when he was talking about it. And I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure with this and rudely, and I'm sorry that the chairman didn't give you any notice of such insult to SDP and the ruling majority. ... He is a colleague, he is, he really is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, the other thing you're a doctor, and I'm sorry to have to tell you about this, but the research carried out lately shows that marijuana, for example, is not what used to be called... Or drugs that open doors to other drugs. [[You don't understand.]] Consuming marijuana or occasional consumption of intoxicating drugs does not necessarily lead to addiction. And the other thing, the other thing you're a doctor, you're a doctor, then you know that addiction is a disease, and we're not talking about fostering addiction here, but we're talking about someone who's already an addict, who has a punishment not only him, but also his family should not be further punished. Money spent on punishment should be directed to other things, should be directed to prevention and should be directed to treatment. That it's been working systematically for a few years, or since '97. When something like this was introduced today in the Republic of Croatia would have a much smaller problem with drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25173	Thank you, too. Just one explanation, I think I owe my colleague the coat of arms. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. Another thing my colleague, I suppose, is that my colleague Buric wanted to paint his disagreement with me, and I personally don't consider myself hurt by it, and I don't think either of us MPs should. This was an illustration, I believe that in the spirit and discussion of the HDSSB and ideologically speaking, so I don't think it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if you think it was by, you can do it by the Rules of Procedure. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Of course, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support the adoption of this law, not because of all the changes that are foreseen, so not because of all the changes that appear to me in these 90s, but certainly because of what is here and tonight, it has initiated one of the most heated debates, which is that from the criminal sphere to the offenceous transfer of drug possession as it is said for personal use. As far as HDZ is concerned, our position is clear, we have represented it, and so far here and now that drugs are evil, that destroys an individual, destroys a family, destroys the entire community. We believe that its incrimination can be achieved in general prevention to say that it is an evil, widespread evil and to prevent, therefore in the young population and research has shown that many young people refrain from being consumed precisely because they are threatened by a harsh social condemnation and through punishment. As far as this part of the criminal sphere is concerned, so that's what it is and so far it's been fined, jail time for up to six months. You know that a prison sentence of up to 6 months is necessarily offered in exchange for working for general good and up to a year a judge can replace it with a fine for the general good. So, I'd like statistics if anyone had, how many young people ended up in prison because they planted a marijuana stem or found a joint at his place. So that's one tantra that repeats itself. We are so far from the State's Attorney's report you can clearly see that. That the job of the Institute of Insignificant Crime in the case of courts and in the case of the State Attorney's Office is an opportunite where it was then assessed from the circumstances of the conduct of the action which has the characteristics of the criminal offence but from its circumstances and the consequences of the consequences that it may give up on criminal prosecution, i.e. it is not considered a criminal offence if it is insignificant. Well, you've told your colleague, Grbin, that the judge was estimating it, but at the time, he was estimating the judge, deciding on a possible search of the apartment where the scales would be found, or no scale would be found. I can't imagine now that a cop who catches someone on the road with a certain amount of drugs, we don't know how much it is, because everything can be for personal use. So anywhere in that term, there's no limit or limit anywhere or how many times it can be caught. In his address, Mr. Minister did not refer to those parts of the final text in which the objections of the deputies were not respected, so only those in which the final text had changed in relation to the one in the first proposal. But here I will look back, so first of all, at this time we are in this Criminal Case of Article 190 of the Basic Law or Article 50, now changing where it is explained that the proposal of the HDZ and HDSB Representatives Club is not accepted in terms of staying in the sphere, in the criminal sphere. And now again in that argument he says. In the final proposal, the applicant further explained the reasons and cited the arguments he considers justified in not owning drugs for his own purposes, to remain in the infringement zone by respecting the principle of no bis and I am going. The reasons for the two pages seem to me spent on the explanation of the institute not bis in I go which absolutely and relevant for the adoption of this law. Why? The principle of not bis, and I'm going so important that the same description of the crime is not repeated in criminal law and criminal law, but there's no principle of bis and I'm going to say that it has to be a violation. So, the attitude is vehemently of these policy options that it goes into the breaking sphere. Okay. That's how it's gonna be, that's how you vote. But don't explain it to me, you don't, and I'm going because it's completely irrelevant in this case and that last time, and that's where I'm calling on the government's decision. No, I didn't say it couldn't be done, that it couldn't be excluded from the penitentiary and put in violation. I just said that's not the reason for this decision of yours. It doesn't have to be necessary. You're screaming like you have to do it. You don't have to, you've made up your mind, and it's your decision, just like you didn't try. I said you called on European practice last time, you answered me, it's not just these seven people who write there. Because I said yes from the 27th. European states, you write that six are then in the criminal sphere. No one has bothered to explain the final draft of the law, then explain to us what these are all who do not have it in the criminal sphere, but now it doesn't matter. The next thing you know, we object to Article 6 of Article 190, which is to say, you've dropped the modeality of who to use the drug production equipment as it's been smuggled and you've explained it, so that item 6 says who to someone else to use and you've explained that it's a criminal part of the aid, and that assistant will be punished as well as the perpetrator, and that's going to be a more severe sanction. I warn you, then, of the inconsistencies of this law because, for example, in the criminal part of the abuse of a device, you have exactly that kind of formulation. You say who makes, acquires, sells, owns or makes other available devices and computer programs, etc. It shall be punished by such and such a prison in paragraph 2. it shall also be used by someone who makes it available to others, and therefore we believe that this formulation should be left behind and who else should use such a device for the production of drugs. So here's what I said about this point 190. We remain in our position. All these stories that we've heard tonight about the police being free now to make the dealers chase, I don't know who's going to criminally report them, so I guess these same cops, now they're not going to punish him but they're going to report him criminally. I'm telling you the criminal penalty under the drug abuse law is from 5 to 20 thousand kuna. You can catch people with as many drugs as the police will criminally report them. I'm telling you that the dealer will pay for it and continue to do his job because he'll have those new ones. A junkie who you say is sick or an occasional consummation won't have that money, so it'll be charged for a year, so after a year when he can't charge, where will he end up? I'm asking you, where will he end up? He's back in prison because he won't have five or 20 grand to pay that fine. One more thing, it's a shame you didn't accept the proposal where one daily amount changes for two hours of work for the common good. We think it's two hours short that we should determine a greater number of hours of work for the common good. As regards the proposals adopted in the debate in the first reading, this Article 32.amendment or 132. Basic text where you say the proposal of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club was adopted, supported by the HDZ and HDSSB Representatives' Club. Namely, if I understand your reasoning well, then it comes out like this who doesn't pay his salary will be punished by prison, who can be exculpated if there were objective circumstances that he didn't have the means, and it didn't lead to the intentional withdrawal of those funds, and then he says that he won't be able to exculpate it if he didn't issue a pay bill under a special law. Now if I'm reading a good explanation, that means someone's going to report someone to criminal charges, they're going to go criminal proceedings, it's going to be determined that someone didn't pay their salary, the employer's going to say he didn't have the funds, and where is it going to be determined that he didn't pay the bill? The worker will be referred to a special infringement procedure to go into a misdemeanor procedure, so he finds that no salary bill has been issued or that, from this explanation, I do not see it. So, I think, and then that would be so good if the worker objected that the employer, the damaged worker, had not even issued a salary bill that in that criminal procedure the reason for the exculpation was the exception and that the employer was criminally appropriate. That's how it's written there are some penalties he has to pay in a misdemeanor procedure, etc. and that he will still be held accountable for not betraying his wages. If that's the way it is, it's good. But if you're telling a worker to establish in a misdemeanor procedure that this one hasn't accounted for his salary, then it's not well-supplyed. I would like to say that a good provision which, between the first and second readings in Article 248, in violation of the obligation to conduct commercial and business books, deleted item 2 which prescribed responsibility to cease because it was already provided for as a criminal liability. And indeed, in the woods of any daily financial regulations, it often happens to people not to do something right, not because they would have done it on purpose, but because they did not find their way into it in time, and often the inspection warns them that correcting mistakes should not immediately lead them into the criminal sphere. We also think it's a good idea that you've set this sentence not for over three years but that it could be a criminal association if at least three people join together to commit a crime for which a sentence of three years or three may be imposed so that you've reduced that limit. Here, there's good changes. A fellow coat of arms warned of the abuse of intoxicating assets in sports. I'm sorry he didn't talk about it, of course it's quite a subject to talk about and to talk about. But here's really how you said this is one change that actually all of these minor changes are about that key that's also the reason for amending the Penal Code, which is that possession of drugs for personal use is no longer a crime. I'm warning you, in a misdemeanor procedure, that the person you're thinking of can go worse than they'd be with a punishment now prevented in the Penal Code. And this judgment that's been lying on the state's attorney or judge so far, I think it could have been more good judgment than the one that's actually going to lie on a cop right now and not to any super-inspectors, and as you said, because there aren't so many, so it's going to be lying on a cop that in any case, he's not going to have any means actually to determine whether or not he's got a scale or not, and there's no exact indication of what it is for personal use and what he's dealing with the law hasn't offered. And the Law on the Use of Intoxicating Drugs also does not distinguish either easy drugs or heavy drugs for personal use or for dealing, so there is no such definitions. What you taught Dr. Buric about marijuana, we know, and Dr. Buric knows for sure. But, you know, sometimes you need a stronger and stronger insulin, you know, after all, and you could talk about it for another half hour now, when people and how they get into the drug sphere, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you could talk about it for, like, half an hour or so, when people talk about it, and you get into these things, and you get into the drug sphere, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you Not those who know how to keep it within the limits, those on cocaine, but those, yes, and that's why they need more and more stimulants, not that their body is looking for marijuana, but it's looking for stimulant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25175	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first is a colleague of Andrej Plenkovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25176	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Lovrin, you have said that you have asked in an earlier debate on this law from the minister to give little argument on European practice compared to several countries mentioned. It's actually very difficult, the practice is extremely unequal. It is uneven at European level, unequal and global. I have recently read an analysis of comparative practice published in the United Kingdom that says on this subject and going further into what my colleague Grbin said, so decriminalisation, so not only retaining the possession of unauthorized drugs in the criminal sphere, in our drug-resistance law, leads it further. They call it a quiet revolution. Decriminalists step by step seek to place the thesis that this is something that is essentially socially acceptable. I would just focus on the key message of our potential adoption of such a Penal Code, which is that the existing in the positive regulation of Article 190, paragraph 1, will no longer be. The message is a prison sentence in that sense is gone. I think we have to take this into account because these shades of all arguments in reason I have to admit that they were more like an explanation of the argument for the implementation of the Action Plan on the effectiveness of the judiciary, from the principle of not bis and I go to the principle of purposefulness, to the insignificant work and to the different practices of the courts. All these arguments seem to me like a kind of alibi for sending a political message. I think that's what this is about, and that's probably why you didn't get the answer to your request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25177	Replication response, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25178	You're absolutely right, colleague Plenkovic. That is an alibi for a political decision drawn up, and that is why I say that in some ways our intelligence is offended with such arguments. Don't explain it to us like that, so I asked the minister because I'm reading the explanation. In addition to this, there are a whole series of arguments to detain only a criminal, not a criminal liability. Namely, the prosecution for possession and the least amount of drugs for its own needs in the Republic of Croatia is not in line with the European criteria in this area, and then six out of 27 European countries have this in the area of violation or have some lax circumstances and when it is in the criminal sphere,... up to 5 grams or more, etc. At that time the minister told me no matter what you mentioned is not so but they are much more, but we got a new explanation with only those six which I responded to, as well as to this item should also be pointed out that the framework decision prescribes that national legislation itself decides how to regulate the punishment of possession of drugs for its own needs. And now it's simple from the arguments why we have to transfer it to the infringement zone. I'm just saying that's not an argument, and neither is this principle of no bis in going for which a spent page and a half needless because it's not an argument why it goes into a felony because it could have been the same thing from a felony removed and all to a criminal one. That was the principle of not bis, and I'm going. So I have nothing, you're right, you're a political option in power, you've got elections, it's your promise as a fellow coat of arms says you keep your pre-election promises. We would have preferred more if you had made other pre-election promises, for example if there were more employees, that GDP did not fall, etc., anything else you wrote in Plan 21, but here you decided to make this pre-election promise.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25179	Comrade Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25180	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrin. It's mentioned how we doctors look at it. So I don't want to argue at all now about how much any of us need to know about this and how much who knows, like I don't want to get involved in... because I'm not a lawyer. However, it is generally known that we are talking about disease, so we are talking about addiction and this present bill instead of going in the opposite direction, that because of the terrible consequences that drug addiction ultimately has for the health of anyone who becomes an addict, and it starts with small quantities, it should have been strengthened, it should have been placed in the sphere of serious crimes against human health, and not in the opposite direction to reduce. This is not about worldly and ideological differences, this is about different approaches to general health in the population. And the fact that it was said here today and then corrected, said yes, here's the lapus was, not decriminalization. Yeah, today is decriminalization as the first step towards legalizing drug use. That's it. In which degree of decriminalisation does not matter at all, the next step will be legalisation. This is what we can expect to fully fulfill the pre-election promise, and it is clear to my colleague Lovrin that all promises cannot be fulfilled. They start with the hardest ones. You know? It's the easiest increase in employment, tax redundancies, raising the standard of living. [[Grebec intrusion: Please conclude.]] That's the easiest thing that's gonna leave it to an end. The first thing to do is to drug Croatian citizens well to welcome the fulfillment of those other promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25181	The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25182	Thank you very much. Dear Buric, I agree with you that drug addiction is a disease and it is completely wrong to say that we must first decriminalize drug use, so that we will collect money to implement preventive measures. So, all this time there's a strategy to fight drug abuse. So, some measures are being implemented. Of course, I, too, think that the government should primarily provide funds and institutional capacity, since it is a disease, with the punishment, the measure of mandatory treatment of addiction in a criminal or criminal procedure is imposed. But you know what the problem is. The problem is that courts can't say that because they simply don't have them to guide them to compulsory treatment. And then if they say that measure, it will only remain because it will not be simply the capacity to establish these people. Well, that's what the government should work on, and now this is the first time I've heard this construction we're going to, it's not going to be a crime anymore. So we're not going to send a message that it's very dangerous. It's gonna be a felony, and then we don't know how to make money. Maybe those dealers will pay, because they'll have money, so every time they get caught, they'll pay about 5 or 10,000, so we'll buy that money for mandatory treatment. I really don't understand how and how it's all upside down. And I'd like to tell my colleague, Grbino, we've heard a lot about these statistics. Statistics can certainly be interpreted in both the Czech Republic and Portugal, etc. I'll tell you that, for example, in Zadar, when police were the best in the field, there were the most registered addicts. You know why? Because the drugs were gone, so they came to check in for methadone therapy. So, just the opposite of what you'd think. [[Thank you very much. Please, time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25183	It's a replica of a colleague named Peja Grbin. Please take care of time for others, for others.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25184	Here's a thank you. My colleague Lovrin is absolutely right. When the police did their job, they squeezed out the dealers then users checked into the treatment centers. And that's the job of the police, not that the users are chasing you. Because when he's chasing users, then no one comes to the healing centers. But I have to refer to some of the other horrors you've been saying. For example, you said that through law enforcement, everyone will be severely punished than they have ever been through criminal law. Of course that's not true. So far, we have had a whole series of instruments in broken legislation, and I refer you to the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Article 11, which amends Article 34, and the second article of that new article reads: "The fine of more than 2000 kuna which is not fully or partially charged or forced within 6 months will be replaced by work for the common good." So we go primarily in exchange for the general good. Only in the secondary case of relapses, when we see that this work for the general good had no effect, when we see that the addicts had no effect on the measures of forced treatment only then would they go according to the proposed fourth sentence on prison sentences. So what you're saying is that now, through breaking legislation, the consummations will be severely punished simply is not true. And two. They say no one who became an alcoholic started with a little brandy right away. First they went with the beer, then the wine, and then they switched to hot drinks. Today alcohol in the Republic of Croatia must be the most dangerous addiction. How many severe blood delicacies have been committed under the influence of alcohol, how many alcohol-induced accidents there have been. But I don't hear anyone suggesting a ban on alcohol, I don't hear anyone suggesting that we fight alcoholism and addictions caused by alcohol consumption by banning and prohibition. And do you know why? Because once in the history of attempted crime, that state was so flooded that they didn't know where they were going with it, that they had more cops than doctors, professors, teachers and everyone else together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25185	Thank you very much. Replication response, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25186	Thank you very much. So a colleague of the Grbin like this, says Article 190, first KZ. Anyone who has unauthorized possessions of substances prescribed and declared drugs will be sentenced to prison for up to 6 months. Under the law on drug abuse there is a criminal sentence of between 5,000 and 20,000. I'm telling you that this six-month sentence will be replaced by work for the greater good. As far as the offender is concerned, the first thing he's going to do is pay the fine. So the fine is first charged. And if it can't be charged, then it can be replaced by work for the common good, or jail, if not by working for the common good. So that's the principle. As far as the police are concerned, which you're so saying is that they're going to have time to deal with other people right now, I'm asking you who's going to criminally report it to people who own drugs for their own use, no matter what it means. So I guess the cops aren't someone else, they're the same cops. They're the only ones who'll decide whether or not they'll turn them in or go through the state's attorney's office to get a warrant to search the apartment or something. So, same cops. And one more thing. I absolutely don't defend alcohol addiction. It's big, it's a big danger especially among young people. I wouldn't dare do that. And whatever it is, I know I'm putting myself in danger. No matter what I say next, I'll be resented, but the fact is that someone who consumes a beer or doesn't get hurt so much and won't be so dangerous to the environment, and that's what drunkenness will be seen as opposed to drug consumption. We've all seen someone who's been drugged sometimes, what it looks like and what it looks like. So she absolutely can't judge normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25187	Thank you. Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25188	Dear fellow Lovrin to you, but I think to everyone else, it's completely wrong to talk about easy and heavy drugs. They're all just as heavy and they're all equally dangerous. It is also completely wrong to talk about small and large quantities because neither small nor large are good. However, what is important and what is the existing Penal Code, we recognize two crimes of drug possession and possession for reselling. What you're up against right now, which is that the exact difference between one and the other is actually in direct contradiction with what you're saying will be consequences in terms of how it's going to be dealt with in criminal courts. Because an addict half a gram, a gram I don't know that amount, is actually something that's due to his illness, because addiction is a disease. One who is not an addict of half a gram or a gram, the exact same amount is something that's meant to be reselled. And it is therefore not good to prescribe that we call grammage and quantity neither easy-to-hard because it is very relatively dependent on individual situations and it really needs to be trusted in court practice. And thirdly, you were saying in your statement that this proposal actually tells us that drug consumption is good and that we're actually driving young people in some way or we're sending a message that's good. If I'm not mistaken, this crime was instituted by the amendments of the KZ in '97. A year. Since '97. To this day, so it's been a long time since drug possession was a felony. I ask you how many addicts have been reduced, or how many people have been affected by the repression? In no way did any increase, the State's attorney's actions spoke of the rejections of these applications. Thus, in practice, there was no effect that was intended to be achieved preventively, and in fact it was punishable not as it is proposed not to continue to be punished. And that's actually the whole reason for the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25189	Thank you. Replication response, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25190	So here you see, my colleague, I would agree with you, you have concluded your first part of the debate with the fact that half a gram of addicts will be judged to be for personal use, and anyone who is not an addict will know it's for reselling. How's a cop on the road gonna know someone's an addict if they're not really high on that class, and someone's not an addict? How will he assess that? And you said it would be a matter of court practice. And I agree that it should be a matter of court practice and the boredom was when it was in the field of trial. But I guess now it's gonna be a police practice thing, and that cop on the ground, the kind of patrol that's gonna catch someone out there somewhere because I'm telling you that the police aren't capacitated and there's not so many highly educated and with a long-standing detective practice that's going to get caught on the road by these people who have half a gram and a gram. I didn't say, at least I didn't think I said, some colleagues were saying, I guess I didn't use that syntagm to send a message to young people that it's good now. No, I said just like this, it's when it's prevented by law and punishment that it's a message to young people that it's a great social evil and that it's punishable. And that the young were afraid of it. You know, a young man who leads some orderly civil life, who later wants to be a useful member of society, wants to find employment, he's going to be afraid of that one threat, and he's going to say I'm going to hold back in that area, I'm going to get away from it. I'll get away from it because I can, I'm threatened with punishment. That's what I said. I don't think I've really sent a message that... [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25191	Thank you. And the last replica, Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25192	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mrs. Lovrin is at one point, you said in the debate that it was our ideological decision and that, of course, that's how it's going to be and that's how we're going to vote. Although, of course, I'm not opposed to ideology as a reason for making decisions, I wouldn't want to trivialize this situation until the end. So it's not just our ideological decision entirely, it's about that there are relevant research, relevant experts in both the judicial and the medical and the police world who think that this solution is much more useful and much better in every respect. I, as you were saying, have so randomly Googled this topic and encountered Slavko Sakoman's statement since 5.03.2012, and Slavko Sakoman is a man who reports in this country and treated more drug addicts than we'll ever be here together in a hundred lives to treat and treat. Here's his statement on the subject of the announcement of this story, saying this isn't about any decriminalization. It's interesting he starts with the finding that it's not about decriminalisation but about a new mode of sanctioning possession of a small amount of drugs. And now, crucially, my view has always been that it should be treated as a violation and the fact is that Dr. Sakoman has always been at least since I've known about myself, and since I remember talking about how really owning smaller amounts of drugs should be treated as a violation, and he still answers both very precisely and some of the questions that have been raised here, let's say that we know whether it's a consummation or someone who intends to sell, etc. So, what I was actually going to say is not only in that peorative sense, our ideological decision is said, we are left-handed, but it's really about a decision that is based on a large number of opinions and a huge amount of expertise from experts from various areas who think it's the right way to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25193	The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25194	Thank you very much. Well, look, you Googled it, so you just ran into Dr. Sakoman, that he's one of the experts who deals with this problem, there are others. The professional public is divided, not all of them are so unequivocal, and here I was listening on, the other day to the show about the research that said that over 50% of the young people surveyed said that since a criminal sanction was prevented that they would feel a certain respect for it and that they would not go into the area, and one good part that had already tried to consume that because it could harm them later in their employment, etc. And with the attitudes of certain people who professionally deal with it, I absolutely respect Dr. Sakoman, I don't know if he's always had the same attitude, but let's just say I don't agree with him in one way, in our own time, we've been saying whether drug testing is being conducted in the context of a systematic examination among young people, so he told me it would be terrible, that it would be a violation of human rights. I don't think it would be a violation of human rights. Why? Because when tuberculosis was established as a serious disease, then you were all going, and we were all going, so there, what was called a delicacy, they pissed us a little bit to see if there was a reaction or not, whether we were being vaccinated or not. So was it a violation of my human right to protect society from a dangerous disease of tuberculosis? Why should it not be protected from the dangerous occurrence of drug abuse, so in which case a young man would be injured to be tested, if we so pet and we'll tell the children of five years of age we won't question you because your human rights might hurt, etc. So it can all turn into another extreme, so there's a measure in everything. Here's me, for example, with Dr. Sakoman on the test, I disagreed, with all due respect to his profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25195	Thank you. Proposer's closing statement, Minister Orsat Miljanic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25196	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So I'm just going to look back on this last and first thing we discussed, because secondly, I think it's been discussed enough. Perhaps only one line around the payout should read the legal text on the grounds, the legal text is clear, so the employer who did not give the bill cannot be called on to rule out illegality, point. That's the fourth paragraph of our bill. So no more employers if you've given the bill you can prove the existence of economic reasons, but if you haven't, you won't even be able to prove it. So that's it, and we think it's the right thing to do, and the only correct approach. But I say let's read the text no explanation. As far as this debate is concerned, it's not a decriminalization at first, it's still an act that's punishable, one. But we don't want those finesse. I'm not even going into a political position, because he can be like this and like this. Let's look at it differently. The drafting of this legislative proposal was attended by the members of the MUP who supported it, although they proposed, members of the DORH, judges of the Office for the Control of Others, experts, a whole series of other experts, and they all advocated this. And I'll tell you one other thing, when the Penal Code was done in 2010, the expert working group proposed the same thing, so the experts didn't change their minds. The MUP then, and the executive authority was HDZ's also proposed that ownership be treated as a violation, and that is official documentation, so we can now watch it is the opinion of experts that are undivided. I don't go in ideologically now, either way, that's your opinion of the profession. People said get rid of it so we can fight the dealers. What are we saying that they did it on purpose to make it harder to fight it? No, they're not. That's what the people in practice said. So do you know that one thing, I'll just tell you, I was already saying, one of those joints requires you four cop stores, two to three state's attorney's stores, requires art, so you know how much it costs? During that time your dealer's moving around. You mentioned dealing around the school. Yeah, but you know we're putting up a fine for it now. That's what you're seriously going to jail for, dealing with, and this isn't what this is about. Let's say something else. ... That was also the question why? [[You don't understand.]] It's very simple. The current arrangement legally says not only a fine which can now be replaced by a new offence in a settlement for something else, let's say for mandatory treatment or something like that, oh, and, therefore, for an addict, must be imposed with a fine of a measure of treatment, and a safeguard measure of withdrawal, it's now in the Law on the Restraining of Infringement, so it's now in violation. If we don't respect... Then this goes out, then it's just a felony. [[You don't understand.]] So what do we want to do? Well, he can't do both. And that's why we said one thing or the other. So let's take this aside, this political attitude that is absolutely ours, and it's one of the promises that we're going to keep, but I'm telling you that it's professionally justified, well thought out, and that behind it is a position that will lead to better results. You can't say this should be removed from the breach. So what we're going to do about that, from the joint, is we're going to run a procedure that's at least 10 to 15 thousand kuna. You know how much I don't even know what parts of the gram are in one cigarette. Do you know how many drug dealers he's making that time? Very much so. So that's the approach we're changing. Now let's remember, I don't have statistics now, but we lived back then, until '97, was it more or less than now? And it wasn't a felony. It was less. Less of these appear among young people. So what became a crime didn't affect that, but we're wasting ourselves, the police, the state's attorney's office, the courts are putting statistics on insignificant acts like this. So why do we want to encourage it further? Why won't we direct them to go after those who are the real problem, who are dealers, who poison the youth, who hang around the school. Well, we have to, so we've done it for them. Well, he's got to go to jail. And now we're talking about someone we caught with a joint, what? Penalty. And why shouldn't they prosecute him? Why don't you give him what's right now, the criminal court is much faster than a criminal, so why don't you have to be treated necessarily, what's it say here now? Why don't you have a protective measure, and also a misdemeanor? So we're gonna end it, we're gonna take it out of the way, and we're just gonna prosecute it. What, send him to jail? Well, I don't think that's the point. The point is what we set up, so if he's an addict, let's go treat him differently, let's treat him like a patient. If the dealer goes to jail, if the product goes to jail. There was talk of quantities. Exactly some countries have prescribed quantities, some haven't. We've been thinking a lot about it, so we haven't made a decision overnight. Again, the profession said, if you prescribe quantities, you'll have dealers that will carry that small amount below and laugh at us as they are now laughing. You have a court practice set now. That's why we don't have enough, that's why they'll be estimating under the circumstances of the case as they are today. You have the first item today, in the current law is one situation, so it's possession, the second is dealing, dealing is another. Rejuvenation of court practice. You don't have the amount today, so we're not bringing her in here either. So let's not talk about some sort of thing now that makes sense why we got one or the other. We have legal text and we have a clear message, prison dealers, drug addicts. The new Criminal Code fits in with this, it'll be right in front of you. You have settlements, why don't we settle for him to have to be treated. Not only do we have to get that fine. Someone said they don't have any money. Exactly the ones who don't have money the other way is. Why don't we clean the snow now? Or something like that? Because of a joint? So you know how many people couldn't get a job in the state service because they were caught with a joint. What aren't they supposed to do in some ministry or something? Well, I think that's the message we want to send. And these are some absurd things that we have today. Think about it. Consider what is happening daily in the field and what this is about to accomplish. This is, of course, drugs are evil. We punish those who are dangerous offenders, we raise them and they have to go to jail with this system and the system of everything we do in criminal law. Well, you know that we're 40% of our capacity at, say, County Courts to be able to deal with drug dealers. So you know how much faster that is? How fast are they gonna get to jail? That's what we want. It'll be released in the state's attorney's office, the police, too, but let's let them do things like this. This isn't for the whole repressive machine and it's too expensive if you want. But it's not because it's too expensive, but we don't have people to do it. Let's deal with the dealers. That's all I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25197	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. What are you banging? A colleague of Anna Lovrin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25198	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry you're calling us for reading the arguments. Don't write them another time. Send us a clear legal text and that's it. I agree with you on Article 32 of these amendments, it was clear to me when I read the legal text. It was clear to me in a certain sense, and that's a good thing, that there's no explosion if they haven't issued a salary bill. Okay. It's a good article and you've done well, but then I'm reading an explanation with this article that instead of explaining something, it makes us all unclear because it tells us when I'm, I'm trying again, I think I'm at least average intelligent, so when this, I can figure out what it says and this one tried to read. And it's all complicated for me to explain. Here. I've equally looked back on the legal text and the reasons that you're telling us why you brought something. So don't be angry if you think so, don't send us any more arguments than the pure legal text, so who knows? They'll read, and who doesn't know, and my God.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25199	And the next replica of the twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25200	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'm going to tell you something on the ground. The point on the ground is that you are doing this act in the introduction to legalization and the introduction to addiction. And young people, I'm a mother of an adult son but in a family and among friends I have acquaintances who have smaller children and believe in the same way we think no matter how much we say it then it's not like that. It's not that anymore, you know, kids, it's punishment for young people, it's a violation, it's something, you park the wrong car. Believe me, this is an introduction to legalization, and what you said by 1997, so after more, it's because there was a lot more attention and hunting for both dealers and addicts and everything else. Well, that's why there's more criminal offences, and so is domestic violence. It used to be like it never was, there was Mr. Minister, but it wasn't punishable, and nobody looked back on it. I'm sure no one in this assembly, and no one who's even looking at us wouldn't offer us, wouldn't give it, would take someone else to offer him for their own use anything, anything, anything, and that would be as a parent, as a grandparents would tend to punish the highest person who offers it, and also to deal with his child in a way that he doesn't need to be stigmatized, but please forgive me, he needs to know that it's a criminal act, that it's harmful, and that's not good, and that's why work on it already when you're in that introduction into legalization, this is really it. Believe it and you all know that a colleague of the coat of arms himself said it was an introduction, don't say it... This is the first time it's an afternoon debate without being in the morning. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25201	Replication response. Minister Orsat Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25202	Thank you very much. So, I wouldn't want to go in personally. But I am the father of three young children and colleagues who have worked on this have very many small children. So we've been taking means we've had personal access to it, and we're aware of what we're proposing and what effects I can have on our own children. So it's something that's personal. What's the introduction? I'm sure it's not the introduction to legalization. What happens in 10, 20, 50 years with everything? I'm not getting into that. But I'm telling you, let's not spread the wrong message. And the wrong message is that drugs are now good that they need to be consumed, and that, unfortunately, stems from your views. So, yes, because we leave drugs as a violation, a very serious violation of a punishable offense that will be easier and better sanctioned than ever before. So why give a message that it's now legalized and that it can be done. So we don't say, we say you can't do, it's a crime, drugs is evil. We say dealers we put in jail and now you're sending a message that it's legalized. Well, it's not, it's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25203	And Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25204	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I'll start with this last sentence of yours how seriously you attach importance to this drug problem. Here is Article 188.who shall produce, sell or otherwise place on the market medically incorrect food or other products harmful to human health, etc. And that challenges, let's say rotten eggs. You've evened the sale of rotten eggs with the sale of drugs. The same penalty is equal to the penalty. So don't try to explain something like that that's hard to explain. You said you had three children I have four and three grandchildren thank God that there will be more and I have to admit the children as part of regular testing at school are going through those anonymous tests and I am very interested in both me and my wife because what kind of a finding will come, and the lack of repression I am not for violence but we have a situation that lack of repression has contributed even to an increase in violence not only drug abuse. I will give an example of the school, today your teacher or teacher must not look at your student wrongly, not as it used to be, and then there was respect for your teacher and there was no fight in schools. I'm not advocating the return of the plague inside the school, even if that's what you'd be talking about. The lack of repression has never solved the problem, and what you said about whether we need to do it now is someone taking a joint to stop him from working at the ministry. Of course you do. I wouldn't forbid it. Maybe the government would look different if we had and you know it. And it won't change in 10 years, but as soon as you're out of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25205	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25206	Thank you very much. So I'll start at the end. As far as the locusts are concerned, so to speak. I agree that some should be raised, maybe even stricter and so on, and as far as the eggs are concerned, so yes, but we don't want to punish those who consume eggs. That's what you propose to be in the Penal Code if you pull the analogy. So we want whoever puts it on the market goes to jail just like the one who puts drugs on the market, not the consummation. The consummation is going to be treated from both drugs and eggs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25207	I'm concluding a debate on this point. We'll vote later. And I announce that tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. we will begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax and we will work finally with point 8 tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25208	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, second reading, PZE No. 191. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – party of work. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to manifest himself. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored MPs and respected MPs. The government does not accept this amendment with the following explanation. In fact, the Penal Code already provides for a criminal offence of non-payment of wages, and in addition to the Penal Code, it regulates this matter and the Labour Act in such a way as to provide for the failure to issue an account of the outstanding amount of wages as the most serious offence. We believe that non-payment of non-payments should remain in the category of offence, but we also believe that it should be entered into the Penal Code in Part 3 of Article 132 concerning non-payment of wages. Therefore, we have partly installed a non-payment of the amount of wages paid to the worker in such a way that we are in paragraph 3 which allows the employer to remove the non-payment of the salary as a criminal offence in case he did not have the ability to dispose of the financial resources or that he had a lack of financial resources without resulting from the objective of avoiding pay. That on these grounds the exculpation from the crime of non-payment of wages can be... only if he acted on the lies of the artis, so if he had also previously issued an account for the payless. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to point out here that non-payment of wages doesn't necessarily have to prevent payment. We have calculated the non-payment of wages as a category introduced in terms of direct payment through FINA. But in other circumstances, the charge will be done as it is done at no cost. However, the non-payment of non-payments is a category introduced in the provision of Article 132 as an necessity to call for the employer's exculpatory reasons. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25210	Thank you very much. In the name of the promoter, the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25211	All that is said in the explanation of the rejection of the amendments is correct and it is true that by amending Article 132. The penal code of those who have not paid their wages or given a certificate of unpaid wages will not be released from prosecution. But you insist that the non-issue is confirmed in any case on unpaid wages remains in the sphere of the violation provisions of the Labour Act. We have made an amendment that this is being removed from criminal law in the second stage of the provisions of the Labour Act which determines it as a violation of criminal law precisely to achieve the same goal that you want, by amending the third paragraph of Article 132. With such a failure to issue a certificate of unpaid pay or part of the beach, it is a criminal offence and no one will be able to be exculpated from prosecution because our goal is to get the workers confirmation. It's true that she has the character of an executive I.D. and that's good. But the main problem is that workers can't come to those certificates because they don't get them. So, they have an imaginary right of conduct. How else to force, and paragraph 1 speaks of those employers who did not pay their wages not because they had no money, not because their jury account was blocked, but from obsessing. So, if we were to suggest that it be a double criminal offence, a non-payment of wages, a non-confirmation. You're turning it down again. The practice and number of people with unpaid salaries and performance data based on these certificates will make you accept this second part of us next year as you have accepted this first part of the proposal that was rejected last time. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-10-0.u25212	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to a decision on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. The adoption of this law requires half the total number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead, who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 89 votes in favour and 37 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted It wasn't? [[Intruder: No.]] And it's not accepted, the amendments have not been accepted. [[Agreement: Amendment not accepted.]]
