ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16619	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs and MPs. Before us is the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean. The Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean is one of the seven accompanying Protocols of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean and is called the Barcelona Convention. The protocol was signed in Madrid, the Kingdom of Spain on 21 January 2008 at a diplomatic conference of parties to the Barcelona Convention. The Protocol is the first international legal instrument to introduce an integrated coastal management obligation, taking into account spatial planning, environmental and nature protection, cultural heritage protection, sustainable agriculture, fisheries, tourism and other economic activities in the coastal area. The Protocol establishes a common framework for integrated coastal management of the Mediterranean. The objectives of the overall management of the Mediterranean coastal area are to ensure that the environment and landscape are taken into account in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol, in line with the provisions of economic, social and cultural development, the conservation of coastal areas for the benefit of current and future generations, ensuring the sustainable use of natural resources, in particular with the use of water, ensuring the integrity of the coastal ecosystems, landscapes and geomorphology, preventing and reducing the effects of natural risks, in particular climate change caused by natural or human action, and achieving consistency between public and private initiatives and all decisions by public authorities at national, regional and local level, which affect the use of coastal areas. In the Republic of Croatia, a whole series of obligations stemming from the provisions of the Protocol are already incorporated into the existing legal system of the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on Waters, the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the Law on the Right to Access to Information, the Law on Authorization, the Law on Forests, the Law on Islands, the Law on the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency, the Law on Maritime Goods and the Seaports, the Law on the Sea and other regulations. The Protocol Confirmation Act shall contain a declaration specifying the geographical scope of the application for the Republic of Croatia, which the Republic of Croatia will notify to the depositary, the Kingdom of Spain, when laying down the ratification document. The geographical area will be defined in a way that the border of the coastal area is in the direction of the sea of the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia, while the border of the coastal area in the direction of land constitutes the border of coastal units of local self-government and local self-government units whose part of the territory is affected by the land part of the protected coastal area of a thousand metres. In doing so, the Republic of Croatia reserves the right of a special arrangement of the space in the belt covering all the islands, the land belt in the breadth of a thousand metres from the coastal line and the sea belt within 300 metres from the coastal line. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 8(2) of the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean, the Republic of Croatia will inform the United Nations Environment Programme that adaptations to the provisions of Article 8(2) are an item. the exemption from that construction ban measure in a 100 metre band measuring the highest sea line in winter, in the national legal system provided for by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. During the process of drawing up the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol, the Ministry of Environment and Nature co-operated with the Regulation on the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Ministry of Finance. The consultation process began in early 2011 and four consultation rounds were carried out and all observations and opinions were sent to the Protocol Confirmation Act. The European Union signed that protocol in 2009, and ratified it in 2011. This is the way we suggest that the law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16620	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the workers’ committee rapporteurs want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the SDP club of Croatia and respected representative Tonka Ivčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16621	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Speaking of development, in particular the sustainable development of the coastal area in the first place, we are referring to the need to manage growth and development and to the sustainable use of the resources of this area, which includes certainly planning. In doing so, the primary objective is to use coastal resources and coastal space to ensure sustainable stability of ecosystems with sustainable economic growth. The management process includes a number of participants, and spatial and other types of planning should be preceded by their activities. The coastal area is an ecologically sensitive area with exceptional human concentration, activity, interest. It can only be directed towards sustainable development through a unified instrumentation of spatial, environmental, economic and social planning and appropriate implementation mechanisms. The densely populated shores are the world's most exploited space. Coastal areas and the protection of their sensitive, natural and cultural heritage are priority areas of national interest for all countries. The Mediterranean coasts have been a concentrated development for thousands of years. The cause and source of their detour cross national borders when it comes to pollution, biodiversity reduction, landscape transformation. Therefore, action must also be coordinated not only at national but also at regional level. The coastal areas are particularly threatened by mass tourism, excessive urbanisation and uncontrolled construction, lack of spatial plans or their unsatisfactory application, inappropriate industry, etc. The improvement can only be achieved by integrated development management. According to the 2005 Blue Plan, the population of the Mediterranean coastal regions will increase by 2025 from the current 143 million to 174 million inhabitants. Coastal urbanization will have linear character everywhere. According to current trends, 50% of the Mediterranean coast is expected to be urbanised by 2025. The extreme demand for space and other natural resources of the coastal area increases the risk of degradation, sensitive coastal eco systems. It is similar with other natural resources such as the fishing fund, landscape, deltas, sea floor etc. particular attention should be given to the danger of climate change and rising sea levels. These phenomena are finally and confirmed and politically recognised as scientific facts. There is also a constant threat to the Mediterranean and Croatian coasts. All of these facts are an important starting point for integrated coastal management. Integrated coastal management has been accepted almost everywhere in the world. Ratings on its success, however, have been shared, and there is also a criticism with praise. This is not unexpected because all environmental problems in both coastal and other eco systems can occur rapidly and quickly reach their peak, while their recovery is a long-term process. Also, harmonising the interests of coastal resource users and reaching agreement on their use of the long-term process especially in democratic societies. Although the integrated coastal management system has not yet been developed to a satisfactory level of its basic characteristics – comprehensiveness, flexibility, public participation, communication, integration, phasing out, coordination, local character do not give us much choice. Therefore, when we ask whether integrated coastal management is choice or necessity, there is no doubt that it is a necessary prerequisite for sustainable coastal development. The most valuable and sensitive natural systems of the Republic of Croatia are located in the Adriatic Sea. This is an area where processes that depend on the interaction of the sea and land, and development pressures, negative impacts on natural systems are more pronounced than in the interior. The Adriatic coastal area is also characterized by a high degree of biodiversity including many endemic species, particularly sensitive habitats and eco systems. It is also important because of the highly developed economy, cultural and social life. In this respect, special attention should be paid to the use and preservation of the Adriatic Sea. Significant progress in terms of integrated coastal management was made in 2008 when a Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean was adopted in Madrid on 21 January. This is the first international legal document that introduces the obligation to integrate coastal management, taking into account spatial planning, environmental and nature protection, cultural heritage protection, as well as sustainable development policies for agriculture, fisheries, tourism and other economic activities in the coastal area. The main objective of the Protocol is to provide a regional legal framework to ensure that national legislation of the Mediterranean states introduces appropriate definitions of the coastal area and that all activities carried out in this area are covered by integrated governance. It is equally important that the provisions and protocols ensure vertical coordination of local, regional and state bodies and horizontal coordination of state bodies in particular of the sector, and at local and local level of units of local self-government. The Protocol sets out the basic objectives... the management of coastal areas, including rational planning, which fully reflects the environment and landscape values, economic, social, cultural development, stability and integrity of coastal eco-systems, sustainable use of natural resources, the impact of natural risks, in particular climate change, and the coherence of public and private initiatives and all decisions of authorities at national, regional, local level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Protocol also establishes priority areas of action in its Articles 8 to 15 and key integrated coastal management instruments in Articles 16 to 21. Predicting and emergency response methods in critical situations Articles 22, 23 and 24. This extremely important international legal document will provide a basis for the improvement of legislation in development planning in the countries signatories of the Barcelona Convention and of the European Union when it enters into force. The Protocol entered into force in March 2011 and until now has been ratified by 6 Mediterranean countries Albania, Montenegro, France, Syria, Slovenia and Spain, and the European Union. A once ratified protocol will become an integral part of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. The regulations that are not in accordance with the protocol will need to be amended and complemented. It is right to assume that a series of these changes and additions will need to improve economic and spatial planning, strengthen the capacity of state administrations as well as local regional self-governments operating in the coastal area, improve the participation of development stakeholders, develop methodology and organise development documents, improve their implementation, etc. The promotions will certainly make it easier for business and developmental operators. It is therefore necessary to create conditions for modernising public administration, strengthening structural capacity, development, new education programmes and introducing new institutional solutions. The challenge of the moment is to question the effectiveness of how to plan, manage better and rationally in the coastal area. The need for simple and enforceable solutions which will not be an obstacle to development as well as to any possible measures that can rationalise coastal management planning and thus make management costs acceptable. Full consideration of the integrated management of the coastal area of Croatia is a key assumption of better governance and rationalisation systems, and knowledge and use of other environments is a good starting point. It is the integrated management of coastal areas that offers the best response to this challenge, and the protocol is a good framework in which this process can progress quickly. In Croatia, it is early to assume that the development of integrated coastal management will be based on the spatial arrangement system as the main element of the future system of integrated governance. The Protocol Confirmation Act shall contain a declaration specifying the geographical area of application for the Republic of Croatia, which the Republic of Croatia will notify to the depositary when laying down the ratification document. The Republic of Croatia reserves the right to a special arrangement of the area in the belt covering all the islands, the land belt in the breadth of a thousand metres from the coastal line and the sea belt within 300 metres from the coastal line. Implementation of the protocol is certainly a step forward in our efforts to preserve biodiversity and natural resources both the Adriatic and the entire region. The Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management should be considered as a good opportunity to move towards coastal management. Therefore, the SDP Club will support the Protocol Confirmation Act in the integrated management of the Mediterranean coastal area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16622	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Next is the HDZ club and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16623	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will also certainly support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean coastal area. The Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean, as already stated in the debate, is one of the seven protocols stemming from the Barcelona Convention on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean coastal area. The Protocol has also been adopted in terms of maintaining and encouraging countries to design integrated coastal management and to clearly reduce environmental pressure and preserve the landscape diversity of the Mediterranean coastal area. This is certainly a welcome, commendable instrument of international policy when it comes to maintaining the coastal area, but it cannot in itself bring much if it is not followed by national policy instruments that define the sustainable development of coastal space when it comes to the Republic of Croatia, then in any case, the coastal area of the Republic of Croatia. The definition of the Integrated Coastal Management Strategy for the Republic of Croatia must be seen in the context of maritime policy, an integrated EU maritime policy. As we know, the integrated maritime policy in its content includes, inter alia, integrated coastal management and maritime spatial planning, integrated sea surveillance, sustainable growth in sea, coastal and island regions, and the development of the Marine Basin Strategy. However, in order to make a quality contribution to defining the integrated maritime policy of our future wider EU community and to ensure the implementation of its general objectives in the Adriatic, with the definition of specific objectives aimed at valorisation and protection, but also the development of Croatia's maritime and coastal areas and islands, it is necessary to develop appropriate national policies and strategies for the appropriate national legislative framework. Croatia extends its sovereignty to 16% of the Mediterranean coastal line from a total of 6 176km of coast, so the economy that is directly or indirectly connected to the sea deserves serious strategic access to the Republic of Croatia. In the past term, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a series of strategies, measures that have realised a number of projects that have gone towards an integrated approach to coastal governance. In this sense, we can point out that it is the Law of the Sea that defines the conditions that have indeed provided and enabled the competitiveness of business of Croatian shipowners on the world market, the social reform has been carried out for seamen, scholarships for future Croatian seamen have been provided, and in this sense growth has been promoted in this respectable industry, which is directly exposed to global competition. When we talk about integrated coastal management, then, in this sense, we should certainly invite the Government to come to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible with a proposal for a Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, which will be followed by the new Law on concessions, we have spoken of this even when the Law on concessions, which will indeed enable the placing into service of maritime goods as one of the most important if not the most important natural resources in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the existing law in the new frameworks of Croatia's accession to the European Union cannot be sufficiently encouraging for the development of an overall economy that relies on the maritime well-being or on the space which, in the light of this Protocol, regulates its use. There have already been words in the debate that refer to this protocol. So it's the outer border of the territorial sea when it comes to sea space and all those units of local self-government that go into a thousand meters from the coast line. So it is indeed a huge area for Croatian concepts which I have said requires a truly meaningful approach to maintaining integrated management of this space. But with this protocol, the Republic of Croatia reserves the right to particularly edit a space 300 metres from the coastal line in the direction of the sea and 100 metres from the coastal line in the direction of the mainland. And before this protocol came to the Croatian Parliament for ratification of the Republic of Croatia, the first decision on a protected coastal belt and, later, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction defined that space and introduced significant and numerous restrictions to protect this most valuable space of the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that the introduction of the Institute of the Protected Coastal Belt, which was partly implemented by the Barcelona Convention, has also contributed to the spatial arrangement of the coastal area of the Republic of Croatia, which is simply and easily worth it. However, it seems to me that the Government is on the one hand proposing such a protocol in the Croatian Parliament meets the international protocols we have signed on the one hand, and on the other hand with the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings absolutely disrupts this space and this Institute of Protected Coastal Belts, which is defined between the other and this Protocol, but above all and the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. According to the proposal, i.e. the law adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2011 at the time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia had just kept track of this protocol by protecting this regime and that space established by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. The new law adopted this year has practically enabled general legalisation in a protected coastal belt and thus we can say that linear, linear construction is possible or that existing illegal construction is legal in the entire area of the protected coastal belt. What am I saying? I would like to say that, on the one hand, the Croatian Parliament adopts international documents on the proposal of the Croatian Government, confirms and ratifys these international documents, and, on the other hand, we practically violate this belt, this area that this proposal really intends to protect, encourage its integrated governance. Furthermore, in addition to the measures I mentioned earlier, which were established in the previous term resolved when it comes to Croatian shipping. What I'm trying to say is that it's on the trail of this and this kind of integrated management, that a series of projects have been adopted that have implemented a number of projects on wastewater system resolutions and now how... sea pollution on land is one of the largest pollutions in the whole sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's why we've implemented a series of projects that have been invested in building a system... water, almost all major cities along the Croatian coast. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These were projects to protect project Jadran 1, project Jadran 2, where some 350m euros were invested in building numerous wastewater disposal systems. In addition, through the implementation of the Law on Islands, the implementation of projects C4 has also realised a number of other investments precisely in this area that is being contributed, I would say to the sustainable development of the coastal area. However, in the past 10 months when it comes to environmental protection, and so is the protection of the environment of this area covered by this protocol, I must say that the government has shown a lack of vision, i.e. a strategy to manage this area, as well as to preserve the environment of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to say that in the past 10 months, the government has still not delivered any of the 3 probation laws defining environmental protection. Neither the Nature Protection Act, nor the Environmental Protection Act, nor the Waste Act, although by accession, or by negotiating the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union, we have assumed a series of obligations under environmental powers. I believe that the past year has been practically lost when it comes to making strategic decisions and laws concerning the protection of the environment of the Republic of Croatia. I have already said that the adoption of this law, otherwise the realisation of all those international instruments signed by the Republic of Croatia, must not and should not remain a dead letter on paper. In this Protocol, too, it has been established that it is necessary to consider sustainable agriculture systematically in the framework of an integrated coastal management policy. It is therefore almost unacceptable for us, for example yesterday, that the Ministry of Agriculture sends a message to the Pelesian vineyards that it cannot help them and has no intention of helping them when it comes to solving the accumulated problems of Pelesian viticulture. I must mention that in the past years and before, there have been similar dubiosis in the business of peljeski farmers and that Croatian governments have helped in similar problems. So over the past 8 years by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been assisted on several occasions, the last time last year was the year when they were allowed through the Government of the Republic of Croatia and through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development to pay their market surpluses in the first row of Dingača, Postava and Plavac small. And I believe that, if we are already adopting such documents in which we are talking about sustainable agriculture, then the Government should not only propose such a protocol to the Croatian Parliament, the Government should also specifically assist those producers and farmers who carry out their activities in that area. And if anything can be identified as a top Croatian product then it is also wines from the Pelješac peninsula. I believe that there is a way for the Ministry of Agriculture and through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and through other institutions to help the Peles vineyards solve really big problems and debts, i.e. the claims they have for their market surpluses that they have left to the Pelesian cooperatives. And to conclude, in any event, that this document is extremely important for the further development of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to continue with significant investment in the oval area. That it is necessary to continue with an integrated maritime policy towards the conservation of the Adriatic. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in the previous meeting was the initiator of the declaration of the Adriatic Sea particularly sensitive as provided for and made possible by international conventions adopted by the International Maritime Organisation. For the time being, this should continue to allow further protection of the Adriatic when maritime transport is growing in the Adriatic. That it is necessary to invest, continue with the investment intensity in Croatia's islands. If it is necessary to continue investing in the wastewater disposal system to further protect the Adriatic Sea, which is now one of the cleanest seas in the world, which is witnessed by numerous surveys carried out daily in the area from Prevlaka to Savudria... Well, here's what I'm gonna figure out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ Club accepts and will support this law, but asks the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give all that this protocol has given thought, all that is this protocol and designed to actually be realized. How this law that we are about to pass today, or protocol that is the subject of this debate, would not remain a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16624	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have a copy of the esteemed representative, Željko Kolar, on your display. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16625	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed deputy minister with the assistant and associate. counterpart Bačić said that in fact the Government of the Republic of Croatia is violating the protocol on integrated management of the coastal area by adopting the Law on the Legalisation of Unlawful Buildings. We talked a lot about it in this House and about that law that was passed in 2011 and that law that was passed in 2012. However, the question arises whether we had a choice? The mess in the area that was made, and especially on the coast, means especially on the Adriatic Sea, it was not easy to say it, it wasn't 70 but 100 meters and now we're going to bring down 20.30,40 thousand objects. This is best known by the people who live down there, but we have sent a message, we have passed a new law, you have the opportunity now by 31.12. to report the legalisation of all those against whom the inspection procedure is being conducted and until 31.6. Next year, before Croatia enters the EU, to apply for legalization of objects, but after that there is no more forgiveness, no more looking through the fingers and letting tens of thousands of illegally built objects accumulate and that after that, we will again, in 5, 10 or 12 years, bring new Law on legalisation of objects. The protocol provides frameworks and on the board we agreed that to whatever extent it is necessary to respect it and as far as water supply and disposal are concerned, the purifiers and collectors and everything else that makes it only the protection of the sea and all units of local self-government that enter the thousands of meters, but we are taking care of it in all of Croatia in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16626	Thank you, too. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16627	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Kolar, it is true that we have already discussed the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, and then on behalf of the club, I have now reiterated that the general legalisation in the most valuable Croatian space is not welcome, neither at the level of the message nor at the level of space conservation. We only, after the 2011 law, partially allowed legalisation in a protected coastal belt but not in general, on the one hand. On the other hand, the Government said I would like to suggest a reduction in the fee for holding an illegally built building in a space that was not large, but the difference in the fact that according to the old Law on Legalisation was intended and the funds that would have been collected from the compensation that was according to the original law were just intended for the purpose of investing in this same area in the recovery of that space that was unsettled if there were to say this lawless construction on the one hand and on the other hand, those funds were intended to go beyond the new geodetic measurements, you know very well because you are also a geodetic, building a new land book that is precisely because it was so unsettled as it was made 190 years ago, one of the essential reasons that encourages illegal construction. Because it is precisely because of the irregular property legal relations of people often because of the inability to regulate their property legal relations reaching for illegal construction, although it is not their excuse, but in any case, unsettled property legal relations make a significant contribution to illegal construction. Therefore, on the one hand, general illegalisation has been made possible which is not good, and on the other hand there is a reduction in the fee that should be recovered from that area which is such an illegal building I would indeed say destroyed and such a decision to lead to general legalisation will certainly further contribute to the devastation of that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16628	Thank you very much. We are going forward with a debate by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament, it is the Club of HNS Representatives and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16629	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The document we have in front of us is called the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean, with the Final Proposal of the Law sounding so quite bureaucratic, quite dry and very many people when they hear this title actually cannot imagine how important the matter contained in this document is, how important the obligation Croatia is to undertake by confirming the Protocol and surely it is difficult to link it with the recent situation in Croatia in those areas and those spheres concerning both the Barcelona Convention and this Protocol as one of the 7 protocols that follow the Barcelona Convention. Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean so-called The Barcelona Convention is just a continuation of efforts in the domain of international law to regulate the management and management of one of the most valuable resources in which Croatia is a shareholder. In his presentation, Bačić cited certain figures, I personally have the same conclusion, but in principle Croatia has the same agricultural land, forests and water as its largest wealth in the fact that one of the significant stakeholders of the Mediterranean coastal line and maritime goods, that the masters of most of the Adriatic Sea aquariums, which is an integral part of the Mediterranean Sea, would all conclude that in our history we have been aware of this wealth and its importance, responsibly managed by this space. The introduction made it clear which laws are in fact directly related to the '95s Convention with this Protocol, so he also cited the Law on Maritime Good, Marine Fisheries, Environmental Protection, Water Protection, and that we do not list which laws are connected. I'd look back on behalf of the HNS Club on the current situation and what we've done to date. I found it very interesting to listen to a colleague of Bačić, who has given two mild packages to the current government and, among other things, to refer to the government's efforts to curb the illegal construction in the coastal belt and I am truly surprised by the level of political courage he has expressed in this regard, since in his term as a resolution minister he has had the opportunity to take certain concrete measures on the ground, and we have not, apart from the changes in the law, witnessed some concrete shifts and improvements. In fact, in his term of office, the illegal construction continued, even at the beginning of the new minister's term, and it seems to me that it is only now in the face of concrete moves that are not populist, because when you bring someone into the yard, then you can't say that you're dealing with pulsism. You deal with very difficult and responsible decisions, very concrete that you have certain consequences for some people who have committed very difficult consequences but have to become and be a clear message to those who are wronged by the law of the Republic of Croatia. The scope of this Protocol is multidisciplinary. It also deals with education and concrete measures by introducing certain mechanisms into better and more responsible management, in particular marine ecosystem care, particularly coastal ecosystem care, prescribes the obligations of the signatories countries, prescribes ways to apply this Protocol. But the most important thing is whether we will really do all that is written in this protocol and apply it. By adopting this Protocol, namely its ratification and respect for and ratification of the Barcelona Convention, Croatia has not taken over the first international legal obligation and this Protocol and the Barcelona Convention, among other things, refer to the International Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, which is the roof document of international law and based on what is written in that Convention, Croatia adopted in this Honorary House a law called the popular ZERP, which is the Law on the Protected Fisheries Belt of the Republic of Croatia, which is a legal derivative exclusively of the economic belt and which Croatia, using the rights belonging to it as a sovereign maritime country, extended its jurisdiction, but we have forgotten and assumed certain responsibilities. The responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the use of ZERP was to protect the open sea, biodiversity, biodiversity, which is a fundamental feature of the Mediterranean Sea. What we have done in the past 8 years is the international disgrace of the Republic of Croatia, we have mocked ourselves, we have humiliated ourselves and this honorable home. The final result today, I claim from the position of the profession, is the complete biological devastation of the Adriatic Sea and a very difficult condition in which there are biological treasures with the exception of small blue fish cattle and with the exception of cattle of large blue fish, namely tonid which is protected by another international mechanism called... , and thanks to God, Croatian politics could not be affected. [[You don't understand.]] We have done enormous damage because we did not have the character in politics because we felt that political imperatives could be done by provoking the rights arising from sovereignty, serious states in sovereignty are not being debated. We have discussed ladies and gentlemen, the overall Croatian policy has fallen on this exam, and the matter described in this document that we are talking about today is extremely serious. Whether we will implement in principle and consistently everything that is written in the document on the agenda today will depend directly on the quality of life, the preservation of the space of true values available to Croatian citizens in the coastal band of the Republic of Croatia. If we refer to the commitments we make, the international obligations we make through this document in the same way that we treated the famous ZERP, I fear that future generations in these areas await a very difficult life, a life of very low quality, a very questionable future. Today's state of maritime well-being is below all levels. The maritime well-being as one of the greatest goods the Republic of Croatia has daily devasts without any coincidences per devastator. There are no clear and quality mechanisms or supervision, nor are there quality mechanisms for repression and punishment of those who devastate marine well-being. In the past 20 years, as a man who has moved professionally in the area, I have witnessed a biological devastation in the open sea, biological devastion, irresponsible fishing in the coastal area, in the canals and inland waters of the Republic of Croatia. Every day as deputy mayor, I testified helplessly, trying to warn the responsible about this, the devastation of the maritime goods. By yesterday, houses and facilities on the Adriatic were built. In the field of nautical tourism, we do not have a sufficiently organised system of reception of nautical vessels and during the season no one thinks about the level of pollution that these vessels emit, no one thinks about excessive noise as a very important type of pollution of the marine ecosystem, no one thinks about anchoring in special habitats on meadows, oceanics. We devast the Adriatic from day to day, week to week, month to month, year to year, and we still haven't come to the conclusion that Croatian politics is reaching a consensus on responsible management of the Adriatic ecosystem. In the hope that this document will not only be a mere formality and that its acceptance will not only be a naked fulfillment of the form but that we will truly be as a well-ordered and responsible state that respects internationally undertaken obligations, but above all, obligations towards ourselves and future generations, that we will truly respect what is written on this paper. On behalf of the HNS Club, we support this bill and the HNS Club will vote in favour of this proposal, and through its political commitments we seek to respect to the maximum of what is prescribed and provided for in this document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16630	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative, Branko Bačić, has been reported at your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16631	Thank you, Mr. President. In his presentation, Coli Baranovic warned me that I had given the government a slight amount of money in the section relating to the devastation of the protected coastal belt. I did not give my colleague Baranovic a gentle puck, I made serious remarks that I made during the adoption of the Law on dealing with illegal buildings. And as for when you called me and the government I was in, last year, the Croatian government proposed two important laws to the Parliament, primarily amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which simplified the procedure of spatial planning and resolving the passage of documents and building acts, thus simplifying the process, and then making it clear and easier for investors to come out of building and building acts and thus allowing them not to resort just to illegal construction. And as for the law on dealing with illegally built buildings, the last government broke through the ice if I could say the legalization of lawless construction and attracted myself, I would say dissatisfaction in the first part of civil organisations that could not accept the fact that the government was proposing a law that legalized law, so that the government was wherever and where to bring practical changes to the law already passed last year. And on the other hand, most importantly, it is possible to access the destruction of illegally built objects, and in that sense I support this government when it destroys all those buildings that were built after 21 June last year. But just last year, in the wake of last government, it was necessary to make an aerometric recording of the Republic of Croatia, to produce digital ortho photo maps that were created this year, completed and became the basis for the ministry, or the government, so that it could tear down the illegal objects that were built after June 21st. Therefore, all assumptions have been made last year that only now can be properly arranged in space, implemented by space editing policy, systematic planning and maintenance not only of space rather than the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16632	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bačić, praise is worth all the moves you have made in the domain of passing new laws to prevent illegal construction. What I have particularly respected in my presentation as a lack in the work of your government is the lack of concrete moves that have pleased this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16634	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. Honorable representative Mirela Holly has the opportunity to express her position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16635	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of my presentation on this Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean I would like to say that I will, of course, support this bill. I think it is an extremely important document and I can agree with previous exhibitors who have warned that it is very important that when we bring in such documents that they do not remain dead letters on paper, but that they are also implemented specifically in practice. At first, I would also like to look back on the situation in the area that is being protected in principle by this protocol, and I would also like to remind myself of the fact that since these 22 years, Croatian independence HDZ has managed the state for 17 and a half years and has left the following situation in 17 and a half years. So, after the regulation on the protected coastal area was adopted in 2004, which was aimed at something that was extremely important for this document, and to protect itself in principle from concreteisation, apartmentisation and one non-strategic use of space in the coastal area, we were given that spatial plans allowed the construction of an additional 700 km of coast. Has that been realized by now? No, it didn't come true because in most projects we can talk about so-called. speculative investors who are particularly keen to come up with a change in spatial plans to raise value to certain locations on the coast. But they don't actually have any excessive desire to invest in that space, so here's one piece of information that only in the coastal area is envisaged for 800 different investment projects that are currently realising about 10%. It means, like, 80 projects. I think it's one scary piece of information that says in principle that something very fat doesn't work in the spatial planning system regardless of those changes to the laws we had last year, which Mr. Bacic mentioned in his replica earlier. When we talk about other aspects of integrated management in this area, we can also not be too happy and happy with the situation that we find in this area, so we have some of the worst cases of waste management in the Republic of Croatia, which has been the biggest problem of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia for many years. Yes, the fact is that in this area we are caught by extremely difficult and very complex commitments, but I would remind them of one fact that other countries that also negotiated with the European Union and entered the European Union have done this in a slightly different way than we have and have not accepted these obligations before we enter the European Union, but have provided for themselves certain transitional periods. We have not done so, and therefore thanks to your negotiating skills, we are waiting for some very strong commitments by the end of next year to reduce by 25% the amount of biowaste that is delayed at landfills. So total chaos and an unsettled waste management system. For many years, so I remind HDZ has managed the state for 17 and a half years. What did he do here? Yeah, something's starting to work, just a question in which way. In a way that went to the disposal site, not to build an alternative system first. So what do we have now? We've got a whole series of dumps that are either resuscitated or completed, but we don't have any alternative system where we can take care of and manage waste in a quality way. We know why such a thing happened, we know that the fund had, the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency, only at PET packaging an enormous loss from the creation of the Fund from 2005 to today 752 million kuna. I really don't think HDZ has any kind of moral integrity to talk about these areas. Because if they really cared about doing this system, they'd have done something more in the past 17 and a half years. Not to mention the wastewater treatment system, terrible! All over the coast, I don't know how many cities there are at all cleaning up the wastewater system, and we want to develop as a country that develops a conditionally said sustainable tourism. Shall we also talk about organic farming? 1.3% of total agricultural production in Croatia wastes on organic agricultural production. In comparison with all other countries that we like to imitate, which are similar in size or in cultural terms to us, it is a shameful data. So we can't be proud of what's going on. In parallel, we have galloping climate change, should I remind you that Croatia is the only country that does not prepare its adaptation strategy unfortunately I must say that even in the term of this government has not gone far on this issue, and the adaptation strategy is crucial in order to have any basis for strategic integrated thinking of any part of Croatia, especially the coastal area that is exposed to even more climate change. Yes, there can be synergy, especially in areas like the Neretva Valley, and there is really a lot to be done. And when we talk about the fact that this government has no strategic vision for environmental and nature protection issues, I would just like to mention one thing, which is that in the first four months of this government's mandate, there are 3 brand new laws – the Environmental Protection Act, the Law on Nature Protection and the Law on Waste that passed the public debate and which represent one basis for a complete reform of the system in this area, means in the field of environmental protection and nature. These documents have also passed the Brussels procedure and have received their positive opinions and I really hope that by the end of this year we will have the opportunity to discuss these three laws and that these three laws will allow us to finally go in the direction we should have gone long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16636	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Holly, we have registered three replicas. Let's get this straight. The first was reported by a respected representative, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16637	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Holly said that for the situation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, this is what HDZ deserves because since 22 years of Croatian independence it has been 17,5 years at the head of the state and in this context mentioned the regulation and later the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which defines the conduct and planning of the protected coastal area. I must now say that it is true that in 2004, a regulation was adopted which was subsequently translated into the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which had just introduced order into this protected coastal area, that the implementation of this law and that regulation should bring all the spatial plans of all units of regional and regional self-government, so the county, and all cities and municipalities on the Croatian coast. And it was a long-term job. And by implementing that law, more than 35% of the construction area that existed and existed before this regulation was adopted. So so much for how far the order has been introduced into that protected coastal area of the sea. But on the other hand, I think that this government and this Parliament should also respect the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which says that it is in the area of spatial planning that units of local self-government are in a clear position to comply with the provisions passed by central government through laws defining the conduct of spatial regulation. As for the obligations we have made in the negotiation procedure in the section relating to Chapter 27. – Environment I must say that we Chapter – We closed the environment on 27 December 2010. Thus, a number of obligations that occurred clearly began to flow practically after that day and that since then, there have been two more years, and that this year as this government manages Croatia, practically no strategic document has been adopted that should comply with those provisions that we adopted when we signed, or closed Chapter 27. Therefore, I agree with you, Mrs. Holy, that these deadlines are slowly due, but it is the Government who must respect these deadlines now and when it comes to waste management and all those other provisions that touch environmental protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16638	Thank you very much. Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16639	A respected colleague, of course, that the government must respect the obligations it has signed, it is nothing at all but a question of whether this should have been negotiated as it was negotiated, given that it was very difficult financial commitments. And of course, as a person who is interested in environmental protection, I welcome all these obligations because they will lead to a better situation in the environment. But I think we've been a little overly ambitious and maybe we've overestimated ourselves in this whole story, and I think that might have been a little bit different. And when we're talking about a regulation on a protected coastal area, I don't have the information that you've now stated that the construction area has been reduced by 35% because according to the data that I have available, an additional 700km of space building is allowed. And yes, you are right that spatial planning is in the jurisdiction of units of local self-government, but I also need to remind you that these spatial plans must be in line with the spatial plans of the higher order, which means the relations to the county spatial plans, which unfortunately is very often not the case in Croatia, so we have the meaning that there is a discrepancy between the spatial plans of the lower and higher order, and of course the county spatial plans are bound by the strategy of spatial development of the Republic of Croatia, which we should discuss in the Croatian Assembly soon, i.e. 2014 at the very least. And I hope that this strategy will provide some key parameters for Croatia's future development in different areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16640	Thank you very much. Also a replica of your exposure has a respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16641	Dear colleagues, I am sorry that you did not remain Minister, but here because you mentioned waste management I do not know if you will agree with me but this existing waste management and management system is based on an outdated technology sold to Croatia back in '96. and confirmed in 2000, 2001, it's that system of regional dumps that Europe is leaving, and this is exclusively in the interest of large companies dealing with waste management. So, it was far before this environmental and energy efficiency fund where many units of local self-government went to rehabilitate existing dumps, they couldn't even get a permit for a simple waste separation compost but were converted into these existing dumps, converted into loading stations. Many cities, especially in Slavonia, which have signed regional deposit agreements and established a municipal waste disposal facility today are obliged, similar to the city of Varazdin for... etc. The debt of a vast million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's about the sale, and I'd say about the intention of robbing Croatian citizens through the ministry, but since nearly 1996. As regards the purification system, etc. one of the largest brakes to build these treatment systems sewers, collectors, etc. and just one illogicality to sell and normally these projects must be consistent with European legislation. But most of these standards and materials that must be installed do not come from Croatia, but from the European Union, where, in the end, this means an increase in the municipal price for citizens. On the other hand, one big illogicality that is here, which is a problem that e.g. for these Croatian Water Investments, the Republic of Croatia does not want, only the end, does not want to release the water contribution and which significantly increases the value of that investment. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16642	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16643	Dear counterpart Vinkovic, I agree with you, environmental protection today is a very big business. And not only in the waste management system, but also in the waste water treatment system, and of course it should be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to profit the Croatian economy by installing these higher standards of environmental protection. And I hope that the strategic documents, and the laws that we will bring here in the Croatian Parliament will just go towards hiring as many domestic components as possible. I can agree with you, as far as this concept of mechanical-biological waste treatment and regional waste management centres is concerned, especially since by then these projects have always been combined with so-called. bioreactors, i.e. waste dumps and treated to extract methane from that waste. And I would just like to point out that Hungary is currently having problems with this concept, because regardless of what they have done with the mechanical and biological treatment of waste, today they are faced with payment of the foam because they do not comply with the provisions of the bio-waste directive. Because plantation on bio reactors is considered to continue to be a disposal of biowaste on dumps. And because of that, I think it is true, Croatia should turn to modern technologies. Today, in the area of waste treatment, there is indeed a lot of things, from the catalytic treatment of waste, pyrolysis, plasma and so on, and I hope that future projects will go that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16644	Thank you very much. And 3 replicas to your presentation of the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16645	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you guys, Holly, you were talking about organic agricultural production, and you mentioned that percentage of 1.3%, and you said it was an embarrassingly low percentage. I would also say to you that I agree that organic agricultural production is necessary in any case and that it needs to be higher, but it is also necessary to say that, that it has a price. It is necessary to say that even those who buy such products today in our country are in a very difficult situation, even for the basic basket we must also say very clearly. But it's not only a problem in agriculture, dear colleague, in organic agricultural production, but it's a problem in agriculture in general. So if we've been following trends since the beginning of the year, reducing milk production, producing meat all the rest, agriculture is on its knees. So here's what I'm offering you is a proposal, a solution, bet with your activity at the Ministry of Agriculture to really help this farm that's on its knees, and that way we're going to contribute to the conservation of the environment. Because it's the best fight against those, therefore, schizophrenics, against ambrosia. We will also contribute to the health system and, of course, to those who want to create illegal dumps in some way, etc. In that sense it is necessary to do so, but of course in those circumstances when they are reduced all this very difficult. That's why I have a concrete proposal, so help me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16646	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16647	Dear colleague Milinkovic, I will suggest to my colleagues in the Ministry of Agriculture something else, which is to write a final strategy for the development of agriculture because I think that Croatia is missing for a very, very long time. And, of course, organic agriculture should be one of the segments of such a strategy. What do we need this for? We've seen this year what happens because of climate change, droughts, extreme other time variables like floods and so on, and it's going to get worse and worse every year. So your agricultural development strategy must be closely related to the adaptation strategy that I mentioned in my debate. But when we talk about organic agriculture, these 1.3% that we've jumped to in the last few years is so here it is not the result of maybe some strategic thinking of organic agriculture, but of slightly increasing incentives and these incentives that go for cattle food as well. So it's being carried out in my opinion and a little too little control, because I'm afraid that the percentage of really produced food through organic farming is generally much less. But I'm saying in the state it takes a lot of regulation, even in this part. And what we would need anyway is as soon as possible to establish a network of so-called networks. Green kiosks that would be a link between manufacturers, distributors and consumers, and I believe that with the introduction of certain strategic measures in this area, these products would also be cost-effective. And you should bear in mind the fact that when we talk about organically produced food that it is food with added value that has its own price and external markets, but I think it would be a great shame to export such grown food because our central interest should be that our citizens and citizens eat healthier food and thus have a positive impact on these health costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16648	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in 10.41 minutes have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes on this law. Dear Representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev Yes, thank you very much. [[It's Branka Juričev-Martinchev.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16649	Thank you, Mr. President. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16650	It's not harder than your own handwriting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16651	Excuse me. Thank you, Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have heard this law confirming in 2008 a signed protocol on integrated coastal management of the Mediterranean coastal area, one of the 7 accompanying protocols of the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean. Taking into account spatial planning, environmental and nature protection, cultural heritage protection, sustainable agriculture, fisheries, tourism and other economic activities in the coastal area. A belt that covers all islands, a land belt within a thousand metres of the coastal line and a sea belt of 300 metres from the coastal line. By raising our hand for this law we guarantee all residents in this area and other signatories of this Protocol the implementation of joint activities in order to protect the environment and contribute to sustainable development of the Mediterranean. By this law, we as one of the Contracting Parties assume the obligation to promote the overall management of the coastal area, taking into account the protection of areas of environmental and landscape importance as well as the prudent use of natural resources. This includes even units of local self-government that are partly in that belt but not bordering the sea. I wonder with how much seriousness we support this law or with how much seriousness the Government is proposing to us to adopt the same when, in the opening part of the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of the law, "The Parties to the Protocol do not have a financial obligation in terms of membership," as if membership fees would protect the sea and coastal areas or further "that no specific direct costs are foreseen for the implementation of all of this before it is said". Do you know that the sea will not be able to be protected without investment, for example? In the construction of a sewer system? Do you know that units of local self-government won't be able to do it without the help of the state budget? And do you know how much money it takes in island or coastal settlements just to buy land for a purification device that so far only needs to be financed by cities or municipalities by its own means? And we all know that only one serious spill into the sea of fecal waters would be fatal to all our tourism and precisely because of these and similar problems we sign this protocol. I therefore expected that the first rebalancing would set out tens of millions of kunas for these parts and for these purposes, especially since the government for these purposes and these areas predicted the highest reduction of over 80% of the state budget for this year. So 25 million were planned for the development of the Adriatic islands in 2011, and that was not enough, this year you plan 11 or 56% less. 35 million were planned to develop the shores of infrastructure projects in 2011 and 11 or 68% less this year. For the construction of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands in 2011. 21 million and in 2012 everything 6 or 71% less. We heard from colleague Holly, I'm sorry that she left this hall, that the situation and investment in sea protection facilities is terrible, and the previous government singled out in 2011. 534 million while this one planned only 91 million or 83% less. The numbers speak enough, the new government has sent a message, the coastal area is where it needs to be saved the most. This law as well as most so far has been adopted by an urgent procedure but we will all agree that it is particularly justified state reasons, given the importance of this international agreement with regard to the protection of the Adriatic coastal area, i.e. the environment as a whole. Will you remember the importance of this area when a new budget is agreed or is this law another mere formality for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16652	Dear representative Juričev Matinchev, we have a single replica on your display. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16653	Dear colleagues, the coastal area is protected between the rest and the protection of water streams in the interior and even in equal Slavonia. And I agree with you that many units of local self-government are targeting this fiscal capacity but they didn't have that fiscal capacity until 2012. Because everything that's been done since the '90s and so far has been a non-stop reduction in the fiscal capacity of local self-government units in favour of the central state budget. So the ratio of a year ago that was 94% of the state's income of 100% of the state budget is only 6% of the local self-government units including the city of Zagreb is now reduced or increased in favour of the state 97% of the state, 3% of local self-government units, and that is precisely why many local self-government units do not have money or funds for projects. And we can sign the protocols myself and the HDSSB club has nothing against this protocol, but it is good that it is signed and that Croatia has one, but in particular local self-government units must have the opportunity and the means to do so. On the other hand, we have one illogicality where, for such investments through Croatian waters, the state collects a water contribution that is much larger than the municipal contribution even three times, there is no release of water contribution rather than allowing units of local self-government to do so, it charges VAT and on such investments, now it is 25% and most of these projects will not be able to revive at all. And there's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16654	Thank you very much. Next debate and respected representative Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16655	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues from the ministry. Let me stress at the beginning of my debate the exceptional importance of this document, which rests primarily on the Mediterranean action plan of the United Nations Environment Programme, whose purpose is primarily joint action to protect the Mediterranean Sea from pollution. The legal framework of these documents lies at the Convention on the Protection of Immobilisation of the Mediterranean Sea, the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean, or so on. The Barcelona Convention, which has been confirmed that we have heard before in the previous debate and by this Croatian Parliament. Namely, the Barcelona Convention has seven protocols, and one of the protocols is the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean, which was signed as we have already heard since 2008. In addition to the Republic of Croatia, the protocol was signed by 13 parties to the Barcelona Convention, including Algeria, Montenegro, France, Greece, Italy, Israel, Malta, Morocco, Monaco, Syria, even Slovenia, Spain and Tunisia. So Croatia is placed in one group of leading Mediterranean countries and signing this protocol and what it has done so far, and with what it will do in the future. Protocol 7 is a protocol under the Barcelona Convention and is the first international legal instrument, the first of which is very specific in the world, which deals with the integrated process of sea and coastal protection, which took into account both spatial planning and environmental protection and nature and cultural heritage and tourism, but also all other economic activities in the coastal area itself. I personally believe that the protocol is of great importance for all the countries of the Mediterranean, but it should be stressed that the signing and validation of this Protocol is a significant step for the Republic of Croatia as a host country of the regional centre of activity located in Split, which plays a leading role in the implementation of the Protocol for the entire Mediterranean area, and I now dare say that this and the Republic of Croatia are positioned as the leading tourist country throughout the Mediterranean because it is not without the devil's centre located in Split. The Protocol shall be based on the provisions of the Barcelona Convention, i.e. the obligation of the Parties to contribute to the sustainable development of the Mediterranean area, as well as to take over and implement an integrated approach to coastal management, taking into account the protection of the area from environmental and landscape importance, as well as the prudent use of all natural resources and wealth. The Protocol itself aims to establish a common framework for integrated coastal management of the Mediterranean coastal area, which, in terms of the provisions of the Protocol, marks the dynamic process of sustainable management and use of coastal areas, which also takes into account the rigidity of coastal ecosystems and landscapes, diversity of activities and use, but also their impact on maritime and all land parts. In fact, the fact is that all Mediterranean countries, and Croatia is so, must together protect the coast from pollution and urbanisation, but as counterpart Vinkovic also said to polluting the Mediterranean Sea, the Adriatic Sea philosophy rests on the regulation of all relations even in Slavonia where we have no sea. So in the Republic of Croatia, there is a whole series of obligations stemming from the previously signed protocol implemented through the existing legal and legislative framework, but not enough. The protocol is therefore an incentive for further development of the integrated coastal area management system in the Republic of Croatia. There is growing pressure on coastal areas, which is reflected in both irrational urbanisation and coastal concreteisation and strengthening related economic activities, leading to a greater loss of intact nature and biodiversity. Let me also point out a few quotes in my debate, primarily a warning given by Louis Vinton, a UN co-ordinator and a permanent representative of the UNDP in Croatia, quote: "In the past 50 years the Republic of Croatia and its coast has been urbanized by hotels and buildings, and that cement and concrete are overrun by beautiful areas, with a note that 50% of the Croatian coast is included in the environmental protection programme, which is very important to highlight." With all that I mentioned earlier, but also quoting Mrs. Vinton, there is a pressure on water masses which is growing and unnecessary. In the debate, please also allow me to refer to the quote by Marie Luisa Silve Majas, Executive Secretary and Coordinator of the UN Environment Programme and the Mediterranean Action Plan, which praised the engagement of the Republic of Croatia in joint actions to protect the coast of the Mediterranean, which brings the Republic of Croatia to a standstill between as many as 21 countries in this part of Europe. The attractiveness of the Mediterranean is of course very important because according to statistics, the Mediterranean visits some 300 million tourists annually, representing about 25 to 30% of the total travel of people around the world. So 1/3 of people traveling around the world are located and selecting their destination Mediterranean, whether it's the Adriatic Sea or the Mediterranean but mostly it's here somewhere. At the end of the debate, it is important to stress that the Mediterranean region is also one of the most endangered when it comes to the impact of climate change. Therefore, reasonable planning and coordination between national, regional and all units of local self-government are necessary to protect the marine environment and all coastal areas. At the end of the debate, I will personally support this bill or protocol because I think it is of utmost importance for the Republic of Croatia and its positioning on tourist destinations as a leading tourist force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16656	Thank you, Your Honor, Roman. At your presentation, he reported the replica to a respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16657	Dear fellow Roman, here I am from 2007, the mayor of 2001, and in politics I've been there since 1990, and I feel like I'm speaking to the deaf. I don't mean you, but no Croatian government has understood until today, and even today's state development, it's still written in ancient Greece, resting on the development of local self-government, or cities, municipalities. And if these cities and municipalities, if the city of Djakovo doesn't have the means to build a purifier, has entered the pre-accession fund, can't protect that plum of Bosut, can't protect the Vinkovci when Bosut can't protect the Danube, can't protect the Black Sea, can't protect the Mediterranean, can't protect that Mediterranean bear in the Adriatic, that seaman. So what this government, which is also written in that Plan 21, must definitely understand is that there is no development of Croatia without fiscal decentralisation, no more funds to local self-government and there is no need to be afraid of any local sheriffs, powerful men, mayors, mayors. These are the people he chose directly by Croatian citizens in the elections. There is a Law on fiscal responsibility, there is all that is written in the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. As long as there is no means to protect or protect the Adriatic, there is nothing to protect the Danube, the Sava, the Drava. There will be protocols like this that will serve to be signed by someone and will be a long, long-dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16658	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16659	Dear colleague Vinkovic, in response to the replica, I will mention an American general who said planning is everything, the plans are nothing. Therefore, the fact is that units of local self-government must plan all their activities and actions to contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia. If you mentioned the town of Vinkovce, the town of Vinkovci is one of the few cities that have a wastewater purifier in the Republic of Croatia because in time we planned to use the World Credit Bank's funds. But in the end, only the replicas have no development of the Republic of Croatia without changing the mental assembly of all of us sitting here in the Parliament and all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16660	Thank you, too. One notice. The Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture shall convene a meeting of the Committee on 11 October 2012 At 1400 hours at Janko Draskovic's hall. I'm asking the members to respond. The next debate is also a respected representative of Damir Rilje. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16661	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected deputy minister with a co-worker. Here I wouldn't want to repeat what's already been said here. A lot has been said here at the level of the declaration, at the level of what is actually prescribed by EU acts and at the level of what would be good if it were good. But now I'm very interested in what we're going to do and what would be good and to that end I think this law could be very good at the real and real problems that exist. And I always, here I like to go from my own problems. Unfortunately, I have them in my unit of local self-government, and it always hurts me, so here's kind of a broad topic, and it's actually too tight a topic because I think it could be pretty much explained in a few segments that could be talked about a little bit about the eco system, a little bit about the trash, a little bit about our famous coffee, or not to say researching mineral ore, a little bit about port management, and not to mention further segment by segment. If, in fact, all can be subject to a very good economy, but they can also be subject to the conservation of the environment itself in the manner and under which and under what frameworks or conditions we will implement them. And on the other hand, they can happen in a verse, perform themselves, and actually not be what units of local self-government should be in office before everyone else. And a lot of things aren't actually in the function of local self-government units today because it's not decentralised. So, it's hard to see the devastation of the coastal area, but it's clear that it's not easy to resist what we've called so far a coastal area policy. Some problems concerning the protection of the coastal belt in reality in the areas of units of local self-government, and so mine are not solved, and their solution is not seen if they are in the protection system, and I hope by this bill, that something more important in practice does not change. Because we often had good laws. And I hope this one offers what we, units of local self-government really need. It's good to always come from here's own examples, so I'll be so free that now I'm a little troublesome with my examples because I think a large number of local self-government units can point out such examples in Croatia. So, when it comes to illegal construction, there is no protection in the event of illegal construction being reported, of course even by local self-government units. She doesn't have much ingenuity here, you know. We don't have any inspections, we don't have institutes, we can just call. And finally, when we report where we need to get an answer, we need to get in the way, or we need to make big problems. Here's the example I've got, and I've got it all documented. On the other hand, it happens, you know, on my land part and on my island part. I have two islands, two beautiful, beautiful, yet uninhabited islands of Drvenik Velika and Mali and a third of the island of Ciova I share it with Split and the former municipality of Trogir, or the town of Trogir of Okrug. Therefore, there is insufficient involvement in the field of waste management where there is a major problem in my city where the Environmental Protection Fund is not those in 2006, the seventh, eighth year of the recovery programme actually approved it, or approved it and carried out it in some way and controlled it in some strange way. Since then, some of the tails have been pulling up to this day. The whole recovery was worth, say, a third of the value of what can be turned into investment today, into waste treatment because according to some contract, the town of Trogir was supposed to take over the Macarska trash, you know, and then he took it over with everyone else. Then the people as the garbage problem grew slowly retreated. Today it is a simple possibility that we have and is already a problem that there will be nowhere to be put off because it can no longer be postponed. It's got to be processed urgently. With that in mind, and that's part of the economy. I ask the question then because I have remained in debt to that fund from those years to me as the city of Trogir, so about 3 million kuna. It's a problem where nothing was done at the rescue. It was only about putting the country down and getting a compactor. You know, we could've gotten an entire bachelor bagger and I don't know what not. The city had to invest 6 million in 5 million kunas. And today, a major project that actually processes, say, gas, electricity, artificial fertilisers, whether liquid, either dry costs about 5 million euros. On the other hand, according to my knowledge, there is no solution in the programme of county waste management centres in the Split-Dalmatia County area. Of course, it stands as a strategy, but at this point there was also recently some, one counseling here in Zagreb. There's just no cartoons, there's no County Waste Management Centre. But then I ask her a question whose waste was created in the area of my local self-government unit and whether I can manage it in some way or only have the cost of respecting the state strategy. I'm not just talking about recycling right now, I'm talking about processing, and in the end what's left is going to have to pay someone somewhere to give me those 7, 8, 10, or how much percentages you put away somewhere and process in some different way that I can't, or I can't, or I have an appropriate license for that. As far as the county's spatial plan is concerned, and I'm sorry, the eco-Castelan system of Split whether it lasts. Despite the participation of citizens in participating the price of water here only now if there is luck at the end of this year should we close the ring around the town of Trogir. Of course it's always been in some kind of disproportion with a secondary sewer network. Of course, it's always like some kind of story that was meant to concern the local self-government unit, but this one took a lot of time. I'm happy and I'll be happy here and it'll end now. As far as the county's spatial plan is concerned, I have to admit it's stuck at every possible level. There we have a new land particle formed by the sea, which is caused by the swelling of although the already completed spatial plan of the DPU is still waiting for a solution by the County Institute for Spatial Planning and cannot be entered into the particles of the country, it cannot be given to the Municipal State Attorney's Office to create the ZDU even though it is an area for creating new jobs. Management of nature parks that are all located in a protected coastal area, and I have two in the city of Trogir, so they are managed by the County Nature Parks. You know how? Not at all. One's a public toilet and it's always closed, the other's not a public toilet but it's happening there what's going on, nothing. These are the resources that the city and city council requested to come into possession of these very parks. These are the resources on which the city units of local self-government can make money, it must earn money, but it must also preserve them. It's part of the economy. In the town of Trogir, I'll tell you now, but I think there are a lot of such cities on the coast, and we also have what we call protection of cultural heritage, we have conservation wards, thank you very much. I'm on my way to tell them thank you very much, please stop them. You know, they have to understand one thing they don't realize that in the protection of cultural heritage there must be life. Where there is no life, we'll open a museum and charge a ticket to the museum. In other words now the whole Trogir is the city museum. And we just need to get into a situation where someone realizes they have to be in function. Why don't they also be in the city function and the city's instrument bar in its operating area, not someone untouchable who works over just some of his companies. On the other hand, we have an airport, when airports abroad fly over, or when they fly abroad, cities that are protected or protected by UNESCO or under any protection they pay as much as I know. Why wasn't it like that with us when we were already entering the EU? Let's predict it, let's do it at the end and that's part of the price that needs to be paid to local self-government units. And in the end, we have to figure out, here's the end, so I'm kind of in a hurry, you know, and don't mind me saying that because there's a lot of stuff, and I've got two or three other sides here, but I'm not gonna end up with them. It's full of problems, it's full of segments, and I'd like everything that can and partly and decentralisation to come into function of the local self-government units because no one can protect better that belt and those areas from local self-government units because they have to manage that area and they need to know because it's up to them to fill their budgets and their lives, but also the responsibility of those people they meet with every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16662	You spoke very nicely and well as the Mayor of Trogir, and you shouldn't have been in a hurry. And now respected colleagues and colleagues, we are pleased to welcome the president and members of the Committee on Tourism of the Bundestaga Parliament of the Federal Republic of Germany. Please welcome them. . Thank you for your visit and I want you to feel comfortable both in the Croatian Parliament and in Zagreb and Croatia. [[Applause.]] We will now continue our colleagues and colleagues with two replicas. The first replica is the respected representative of Ivica Mandic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16663	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In his debate on a very important Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Integrated Governance of the Mediterranean, Damir noted that we have good laws. I would rather turn to it here to implement these laws because we in Croatia have a lot of good laws, and when we ask what is the realisation and implementation then we cannot be satisfied there. So I would welcome this way of adopting protocols like this that will certainly, in a better and better way, be able to exploit and preserve what we have as a natural treasure. And I would like the inspections that are required to protect from the environment, from the eco-systems, from setting up space to do their job better because we here make a lot of good laws, but if these laws don't go into reality, into real life, and we change how a fellow Roman said and the mental set that's most difficult won't be of great benefit. That's why I agree with my colleague Rilje's good laws, but even better implementation be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16664	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16665	Well, I would sign anything my esteemed colleague mayor has said and practically we mayors, those of us in the executive government in local self-government know these problems very well. So a fellow Roman will know that, too, so he'll probably change the mental circuit, and he'll see that without funds and decentralisation, you can change the mental circuit, but if you can't do anything, there's no saving it. So this is primarily an appeal to the government of the Republic of Croatia to understand one thing that can't be destroyed and destroyed by local self-government, that it can't be left without funds because I claim that we can sign these protocols a hundred times if there's no fiscal capacity for local self-government units to solve these problems. Similar problems have the city of Djakovo and Trogir. I repeat, and related to these waste management centres, Croatia was sold obsolete technology in '96, '97. A year. Croatia is a hostage of large EU powers. Big companies dealing with waste management. We have outdated technology, the EU's regional dumps are leaving, so you heard a colleague named Holly who knows the problem well. The second problem that is related is precisely to the construction of the system sewers of the purifier collectors. I also ask the state to understand that it cannot rely solely on the European Union's funds but must also release those investments from value added tax, and in particular on water contribution. Because who are we saving and protecting? Only ourselves in the surroundings of the city or the municipalities or are we protecting the whole of Croatia? That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16666	Thank you very much. The final word of the Deputy Minister, the Honorable Croatia of the Dokoz.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16667	Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, I have to agree with everything that's been said here. And here it is from the signature, starting in 2008. The implementation was launched precisely in this direction in order to implement certain projects on the ground. Just when we're talking about purifiers on the beach. It's about GEF donations, when you asked about the funds, here's the answer. I personally hope that, you mentioned the implementation, that the implementation will be the right thing to do. For a year and a half it has started and worked on it, and the basis of the protocol is another thing that is important we are establishing a significant regional centre that is located in Split that is gaining additional importance. The laws that come are mentioned, here are the laws prepared, all three laws will soon be in front of you, so the Environmental Protection Act, the Nature Protection Act and the Waste Act. Here's our personal hope, we've stepped up our activities that through all these regulations, laws, and projects, here's the mention of GEFs, where we've managed to pull $5 million of gifts, a gift line, just to help the local community. But what you said absolutely to boost field activity and strengthen local community activity. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16668	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. The debate on the text of the law is over, and we will vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean coastal area, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No.166. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 115 for and 6 abstentions have been adopted by the Law confirming the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean coastal area, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16671	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start by congratulating you on the election. I didn't get to do it yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16672	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16673	So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is before us, before you is the final proposal of the Personal Name Act, he was in the first reading somewhere in early June. The comments discussed have been discussed and this final proposal for a law is therefore the result of discussions in the first reading and some other reflections of the motion. The existing Law on Personal Name was adopted at a session of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia's House of Representatives on 14 October 1992. The provisions of that law provide that the personal name shall consist of the name and last name and that the name or last name may consist of more than one word. Furthermore, a person whose name or name or name and last name consists of more than one word shall be obliged to use the same personal name in legal traffic. Although the law stipulates that the personal name may consist of more words on behalf of and last name, the provision of Article 2(4) of the current law limits the number of words in the name and last name with which a person can be used in legal traffic. The name and last name according to that provision could contain each word for itself at most 2 words. This legal restriction to a large number of Croatian citizens who were born abroad or who obtained a name that consisted of several words, made it impossible to use a full personal name in legal traffic. Multi-annual application of the law presents a number of problems in practice. Which resulted in different treatment in the authorities of the state administration. At the same time, a large number of Croatian citizens expressed dissatisfaction with the existing restriction. Such a restriction led to the situation that Croatian citizens who obtained a name that consisted of more than one word, in order to pray for the use of all the words in their last name, changed their last name in a administrative procedure in such a way as to combine two words into one, all to satisfy the legal restriction and to comply with the provisions of the law. Furthermore, during the current application of the law, it has been established that certain legal provisions relating to the very implementation of the personal name change procedure have not reached the purpose of their existence, i.e. the purpose provided for. In particular, the current law lays down in Article 7 of the obligation on the competent authority leading the procedure to inform citizens on the application for a change of name, i.e. in order for citizens to have the right within 30 days of publication to show their opposition to the amendment application. The possibility is also prescribed that a person who changed his personal name can publish that change at his own expense in the National Journal. It was the 92nd time there was no Internet, so it was a little harder to get to the public. The long-term application of the Personal Name Act has shown that citizens have not expressed their opposition to the proposed changes nor have they used the possibility of publication in the National Journal. The basic issues proposed to regulate this law relate to the content, the way in which the personal name is determined, the denunciation of the earlier statement of the name for legal traffic, the determination of the child's personal name, the return to the last name before marriage, the change of personal name, the exception to the right to change the personal name and the use of a new personal name. The adoption of the Personal Name Act will abolish the legal restriction on the number of words on the name and last name with which Croatian citizens can be used in legal traffic. This will ensure the possibility of using a complete personal name. Citizens who have made a statement on the name for legal traffic due to an earlier legal restriction will be granted a recall of earlier statements, which will provide them with one position with other citizens. The personal name change procedure will be simplified and accelerated as the legal assumptions that must be met have been reduced in order to approve a change in the personal name, and no longer need to be made public on the body’s notice board of application and to await the expiry of 30 days, in which citizens can show their opposition to the proposed change in their personal name. By extending the legal period within which a spouse may return to the last name he had at the time of his marriage, the need for a change of last name in the administrative procedure and payment of the administrative fee will be reduced. It will also allow the entry of notes in the Matrix born without conducting a process of changing the personal name of a Croatian citizen who, according to the regulations of another country, has been granted a change of personal name, provided that that personal name is no longer used in legal traffic, as it has acquired a new personal name. As regards the difference between the solution in the final draft of the law, the first-reading solutions therefore accepted the proposal in the discussion of the Justice Committee and the Legislative Committee to review the control mechanism for the change of the personal name, and the text of the final proposal for the law provides for a change of personal name will not be approved if the proposed personal names are offended and the rights and freedoms of other people, legal order and public morality, or if the proposed personal name does not constitute a personal name within the meaning of Article 2 of the Law. The same comments were accepted which concerned the regulation of the control mechanism and the regulation of restrictions, i.e. the conditions under which the change in the personal name would not be granted, and which were the comments of the representatives of Grbin, Mlakar, Vuksic and Salapic. It also accepted the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Representatives Grbin, Salapic and Lovrin concerning the review of Article 8 relating to the exemption from the right to change the personal name of persons subject to criminal proceedings. In the final proposal for a law of Article 8, paragraph 2 has been amended, which stipulates that a change in a personal name will not be granted to a person against whom a criminal offence is being prosecuted in accordance with his or her duties. In this respect, Article 6(6) of Article 9(2) has been supplemented, and the addition relates to the obligation of the competent authority to request, in the process of amending the personal name of the applicant, assurances of the information contained in the criminal record and the parent for convicted persons in which the rehabilitation period takes place, notification of the change of name and the criminal record. The applicant, or the Government, also accepted the opinion of the Committee on Justice and Parliament's proposal on the review of the proposed provision of Article 11 in relation to the criminal offence of false representation and the definition of infringements. Therefore, Article 11 of the final proposal of the law stipulates that they will be punished for a violation of a person who is not used by a new personal name in legal traffic on the day of registration of the change in the queen of the born. It also accepted the proposal from the representatives of Grbin and Lucin, who proposed to consider the age limit of the child for whom his consent should be sought to change his personal name and that an old solution may be maintained. In the current law, it's been 10 years. In the first reading was 14 years, we have considered the other laws of the primary provision of the Family Law relating to the change of the personal name of the adopted child in this final proposal brought down or raised the dependence on which aspect we look at for 12 years, and we will consider both the amendment and the competent ministry to consult on the proposal to stay on the border for 10 years. The other comments and suggestions that have been made in the debate that we have already explained in some way but here and now, in the proposal for this law, we have explained why they could not be accepted, I believe that this is now a law that is good, which corrects the current solution that will allow citizens to change their personal name more freely and normally for those who want it. And I call on the MPs to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16674	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the SDP club and the respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16675	Here's your thanks, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Here is the club of SDP representatives, and in his first reading he supported this law with certain remarks, I would say less. In view of Mr. Minister's presentation, we can say that once the proposal has been completed, this law is much better in Parliament and should certainly be supported. I will remind you that although the minister has talked a lot about it, it is a law that liberalises not only in the process of changing our personal name but above all giving us a personal name, what doesn't make us the person we are but certainly affects both our identity and our life path. We believe that the provision that existed in the law on the limitation of the name and last name in two words in the name and two words in the last name was obsolete, too bureaucratic, and I would even say a relic of some past times. This is exactly the most important change that we must certainly support and I believe that the proposals that have come to the benches to return certain restrictions should not be accepted because they are redocrating and needlessly making life difficult for our citizens. Furthermore, I would also refer to the remarks adopted by the ministry in the period between the two readings. It is certainly necessary to support the introduction of a control mechanism when changing a personal name. Last time there was a very constructive debate about it, and it has been shown that there is often a danger that by changing a person’s personal name offends society and morals and that there must be a way for such a change to, say, give or take the name of a war criminal to be disabled. And that is why we welcome such a change as the one relating to the restriction when the change will not be allowed, only in the case of criminal proceedings for offences prosecuted under official duty. However, we at the SDP club believe that there is still a possibility in this text for certain changes or repairs. In fact, right on our SDP initiative, the age limit has been reduced, requiring the child's approval from 14 to 12 years of age. That's definitely good. But we don't think it's enough. We think that by the age of 10, the child has been sufficiently associated with his personal name, it represents a significant part of his identity, the way he participates in his school and extracurricular activities, and therefore we believe that the age limit for seeking the child's consent in changing his personal name should be reduced from 12 to 10 years, which is why we have sent this House an amendment to such content and we hope that the ministry will accept him. Not to be too long, it's a good bill, it's a bill that makes it easier for citizens in at least one small segment to have problems. As the minister said, those who return from abroad or were born abroad with some names that may be a little strange enable us not to have to make up some kind of roshades and invent some kind of warm water so that we can put that name in our personal documents. That is why we believe that this law with this one little amendment that we propose should be supported because it is more than good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16676	Thank you, comrade Grbin. We have a replica of our colleague Dražena Đurović on your display. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16677	So here's a representative of the coat of arms mentioned named Peja Grbin mentioned that the former provision of two names and two last name relics. How many representatives in the Croatian Parliament do I think that no one has the need, for example, we are somehow representatives of the state of Croatian citizens here, are we all a relic because we all have one name and one possibly two last names? So whether it's a relic or whether we present as humans with our names and last names the need to change it. What is a traditional form in the Croatian people or in all citizens living in the Republic of Croatia's names and last names and from which the need to change it at all arises. So come on, two names means a part, a di or an example of the Dutch last name that the applicant put out, and with three words in the last name, it's already meaningful, so let's say the number of words in the last name goes up to three. But everything else is really something that is simply unnecessary because in no way does not follow history nor culture nor the value of Croatian peoples, Croatian history and nothing that relates to Croatian people or citizens living in the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand, it will be a serious problem in various databases of Croatian citizens, or Croatian citizens, when we have five, seven, eight names or last names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16678	Replication response, colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16679	Dear colleague, having a word in the name, one word in the last name is not a relic of the past tense. The relic of past times is that we limit others' right to have more than one word, or more than two words in their name and last name. The relic of past times is that we limit others' right to be called what they want because we don't call ourselves that way. If there is one person in the Republic of Croatia to whom this restriction is a rule of problem, and if you have carefully studied the report of the Ombudsman, there is more than one person to whom this restriction is a rule of problem, then our obligation as a representative, regardless of what we call ourselves and whatever we do not have such problems, to change it and to help our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16680	Thank you. It is up to the HNS Club and counterpart Boris Blažekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16681	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me also congratulate you... I wish you good work. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Mr. Minister. The law itself was discussed by Mr. Minister, Mr. Peja, and I would begin my discussion with certain findings. One of the four natural rights of every person is freedom. Every human needs freedom to develop his talents and to achieve himself completely. Without freedom, the human spirit lands, culture and science are falling apart, the economy is not progressing. Our mind needs freedom as our body needs air to breathe. Every human being is an individual or individual with its own personal, unique ideas, desires, and needs. At the same time he or she is a social being depending on other individuals or individuals and with certain obligations against them. The rights and freedoms of an individual or of an individual shall not endanger the rights and freedoms of another individual or individual. Freedom and accountability are indivisible, together they determine the relationship between individuals and communities. Without freedom, no other human value can be realized. An integral part of individual freedom is individual, personal rights. Personal rights are necessary if an individual or individual is to freely dispose of his or her personal life. Therefore, freedom of opinion and expression is not only a strong moral requirement for tolerance and rule of law, but also a path towards the development of the human mind, a path based on competition, free ideas, competition with knowledge. One of the personal rights is a personal name. He personally has as well as just talks is so personal and private that all other individuals and individuals can, and the state must accept it in the form in which an individual or individual wants it. The laws determine the relationship between individuals or individuals and the country's relations with its citizens. The laws must always be on the side of individuals and individuals and must primarily protect their rights, and only then regulate the relations of individuals outside the state and regulate suspected anomalies that could result from the relationship treated by those laws. This law is one of the laws that is in the way of these principles. It treats personal rights as individual or individual rights and is in the service of free choice and free choice of individuals or individuals, and then treats the relations of states and individuals in the necessary relations that the state regulates with its citizens. And this law is one of the laws governing the Croatian state and society. This is one of the laws that makes us more free. Freedom is a vain, individual’s freedom, or individual’s freedom, necessary in order to develop or develop its talents and to achieve or fully achieve it. Our mind needs freedom as our body needs air to breathe. Without freedom, no other human value can be realized. And that is why I will be as pleased as the club of the HNS, the Liberal Democrats, will accept the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16682	Thank you, colleague Blazekovic. On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke club, a colleague, Branko Vukšić, works. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16683	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates. Is there any connection of Croatian Labourists-Parties working with topics such as this, with personal names, with the Law which determines what can and cannot be a personal name, or name or name. There's both indirect and direct. In which Croatian neighborhoods are the most common name motivated by interest, in Međimurje. Many of these last names will be found only in Međimurje. Bek meaning baker, Brodar, drummer or Bobnar, Chižmadi, Chižmeshia, Dretar, Drvenkar, Fajfer meaning German player, Feletar Hungarian coachman, Fisher is a fisherman, Flasher is a butcher, Glasser or Glasar it is a glassmaker, Gombar is a button player, Katanac, Hungarian katana means soldier, Kolar, Koritak, Krsnar, Kuhar, Pandur, Štibler, Taxer. Remember Balad Petrice Kerempuch and Krležina Stybra. Stalker, Vrtarić, Žagar, which means pilar. From the beginning, the Međimurians have shown their commitment to work with personal names. Now that we allow easier change of last name in the same time, many Međimurci as well as the Zagrebers, as well as the Ossetians, as well as the Rijekans could cross over to Burzar from waiting on the stock market. A container of digging in containers or Starving for a crown in the stomach. Personal names, names and last names are the monuments of our survival. Names and last names are our memory. The names show historical and topographic contents of Zagrebec, Confesija Jurjević Đorđević. National Tedes, language Blacks, Blacks and many other influences. So names and names are the folk monuments of our memory. Last names are moving monuments. People wrote their own history to them. The last names are what is really the address of people in society. The last names are names of persons, that's what they mean. They have their own names with a traditional meaning. Since when do names come from, since when? Have we always had them? Croatians begin to inflate their last name in the 12th century. In the feudal order, the church from a religious and permanent point of view was in charge of overseeing and registering the regiment for preventing how this long ago was spoken of incests, early and inappropriate marriages that many would say today are not concerned. From the Trident Council, or 19. The Ecumenical Assembly of the Roman Catholic Church, which from 1545 to 1563 carried out reforms in the spirit of protureforming. In Croatia, queens of born, married and dead began to be led. Since then, in the mid - 16th century, the last names have become written, permanent, and hereditary. And what exactly is the last name? So over plus name, means name or name, nickname. The first names played a role in nicknames and were mostly given by what remarkable attributes Bilikosic, Grbić, Romić, Mileusnic, Škrbić, Kljaić, Zubović, Varikaša, Nodronja, Kruhonja, Gazoda, Peciguz, Glavosek, Smrdalo, Tresiglava, Kujek, Hraček, Vodopia, none of those names were invented. They all existed or existed. The reputation motives were also in animals rabbit, hedgehog, wolf like my last name came from this Bear, Cancer, Shkobalj, Bačić. Birds Kos, Slavić, Vran, Golub, Kragulj. Bilju Javor, Mažuran, Loza, Ruža, Jasmin, Dunja, Ljubica. The natural phenomena of the Meccava, the Storm, the South, the Dawn, the Danica, the Sun, the East. The names of the iron ore, or the iron, the gold, the silver. The names of the peoples of Hrvatin, Ugrin, Roman, Judith, Soviet, Croat. Until the massive appearance of the last name in Croatia were popular Slavic names, so the rulers were called Berigoj, Branimir, Domagoj, Razslav, Vojislav, Krešimir, from Cresiti or Buddha, Miroslav, Mutimir. In later centuries, there seems to have been many in various areas of the Balkans, I think of Mutimir. Radovan, Svetislav, Tomislav, Viseslav, Zdeslav, Zvonimir. The most common group of last names is revealed by Mirkovic, Nenadic, Novacic, Porebić, Zivkovic. The most extensive group of so-called. Nardimama's last names reveal what kind of ugly, Kosor, Mrđen, Grbić, Divljak, Krivec, Dugački, Quiet, Bezub, Bradić, Mudak, Debeljak, Guzina, Šakić, Plećašaš, Bezok, Suhoritec. A larger group of last names reveal where Kranjec, Hrvatinić, Turkinovic, Bosanac, Greece, Furlan, Sremec, Zagorac, Primorac. One of the most common last names in Slovenia and Hungary is Horvat. For Leonard, you know he's from Vinci, Tuscany. Paolo Veronese is of course from Verona. Don Quijot is from Mancha. The fourth group of last names reveals what you are as Kolar, Opančar, Ribarić, Pushkarić, Sablar, Lončar, Tkalec. The last name Kovacevic, meaning blacksmith's son, is the second most common name in Croatia behind Horvat and is carried by nearly 16000 people. The last name Kovačić carries more than 11,000 people in Croatia. In 1964, there were 78000 Kuznjecov in Moscow, and Kuzvec means blacksmith. The last name Smith means blacksmith carries about 2 million Americans. The last names are monuments of our existence, but interesting, vivid, talkative monuments. And it's important to know how they were made. Croatian names often have Greek and Latin roots, and roots from the New Testament. Serbian names are mostly from the Old Testament. When Croats speak of personalities or are officially addressed to a person, they do so on a regular basis with a name or last name or in the extreme case only by a last name. For example, Mr. Leco, Mr. Tudjman. It is unimaginable to speak publicly about Mr Miroslavo Krleža or Zoran Milanovic. In Serbs where, much later, only in the late 19th century, people inhale the last name of intimacy by name is where and where more prominent, so the books on Vuk Karadzic say. They advertise Brankov Radicevic's lyrics, play Branko's bike, the sources of Sterija Popovic, children read Uncle Jovo Dragon. Even the titles of the works talk about the diversity of culture on one side of the Pop Cira and Pop Spira, Ivkova Slava, Hajduk Veljko, and on the other, Glembajevi, Petrica Kerempuh, the return of Filip Latinović. In addition to the culture of last name and name, we can figure out history. Croatian last name has been latinized. Because of historical circumstances and the need to adapt, Lucic became Anjali, and Petris Petricius. The last names were also being put on the ground, so Lozancic became Lazane and Mladinić was Mladneo. At the time of national and cultural rebirth when the national consciousness of the party starts to awaken, the last names are retranslated to Croatian – Farkaš, the Hungarian wolf becomes Vukotinović, Fuchs the German fox becomes Lisinski, and the most famous is of course Vatroslav Lisinski. Frolich becomes Weslic. Many are delusions and ignorances related to personal names. Ružički is the first name of Leopolda II, and the second name of the Christian name with which Stephen was not used. But the increasingly common name of Ružičko is Leopold translated into us into Lavoslav, see the '74 JLZ encyclopedia. or the 1997 Croatian Lexicon. Leopold is the origin of an old German name, it is two members of the liud – people, people and ball – boldly brave, brave in the people. Leopold really has nothing to do with the name Leo. Such names are rare in Croatian history, an exception. Today the hand on the heart fades awareness of the value of the last name as cultural monuments. More tangible monuments are being destroyed than last name and name. This law in the name of freedom, and it is the goal of democracy, will contribute to making cultural monuments, names and last names more fade and accept other features. Which will also be a testimony to us today and here. Personal historical names with no history will be replaced. But that's the price of freedom, I guess. If we suppress the messages of the ancestors contained in our names, we knowingly give up part of our own identity. We remember the time when tractors wanted to become Mercedes, and Mercedes would become a harem again – that Vinkovic knows what. It was only when he realized what Claudio meant - chromium, a lame name that was given to him by the parents of my acquaintance’s son, who wanted to be renamed to the Alpha, and they knew who were watching television. The five-year-olds may become pure Mrs. Clara and Miran Che Guevara after this law. Who's gonna stop them from doing that? More specifically, who has the right to prevent them from doing so? Perhaps even after the adoption of this law in the assembly benches or even at the chair table, what kind of Croatian Che Guevara is won? Who can resist this challenge? But perhaps in Croatia, which is in crisis, it would be more appropriate to have a name given the circumstances, which we need, given its possibilities, as I said in the first debate, Chuck Norris. You'd even be more useful to Chuck than the first vice president of Cacic himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16684	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDSSB club, which will first be spoken by counterpart Zoran Vinkovic, and then Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16685	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates. After this Chuck Norris, I will first of all really here's my colleague Branko was well prepared for this debate yesterday by pulling all this data out of a really good book, but here I am going to have my debate with that I will immediately say that the HDSSB club will be restrained by this law since there are a number of things that I could have said in a completely different way. First of all, we are interested in, among other things, in the compliance of this Personal Name Act with the Family Law, which is related to the age of a child because a 10-year-old child, at least those who have children, are very much related to their name and last name, if parents or guardians did not give them any such vivid names which are not only made up of the name, last name, or possibly two names in the name itself and two last names in their last name, so how can a child of 10 give their consent to a change of his personal name? Is this child really so psychologically, emotionally matured and whether the age limit has been determined by experts themselves or determined by them, that no one gets angry, the parliamentary representatives in certain clubs that are in this case at the SDP club who obviously have no coordination between the party and the government and the competent ministries and the minister himself, because this is not the first time to amend certain laws proposed by the government and the ministry come precisely from the strongest party to the Kukuriku coalition, that these other parties are not angry. For a time in Croatia, it was so modern and it began with democratic changes when certain scientists and historians also issued and published Croatian names, and with these books they were probably, and I hope, based on historical facts, the coat of arms of certain families and last names went along, so many in Croatia, although they lived on a small pension, lived on a small salary, lived on the edge of existence between names and last names, added what is noble. So we became the beginning of those '90s land with the most noble families. I remember there were about 500 Croatian last names in that book that had their backs. Normally, that book cost about 500 kuna at the time, along with that coat of arms, so many families hung those coat of arms and played nobles in a young Croatian democracy. This law does not foresee, therefore, the inability to place and such markings, and now we have a sneezing with the name and last name, a variety of titles that do not match I believe in an adequate true state. And it is particularly dangerous that the change of personal name itself, here in Article 8, will not be approved if the proposed personal names are insulted and threatened by the rights and freedoms of other people, legal order and public morality. So it's not visible who's going to decide who's insulting public morality, the legal order, whether it's Adolf, whether it's Hitler's last name, whether it's Benito, whether it's Mussolini's last name, whether it's Kim Mill Sung and so on and so on. And at the same time, here in these last few months I have a feeling that someone has been given a party assignment to quote here daily the Bible, the Gospel, the Psalms, etc. At the same time we have a series of Croatian names that are also related to history, related to the area, related to occupation, related to activities, many last names are for father, mother, etc. So, I believe that only the Ministry, therefore, should, since we are in favour of, above all, living in Croatia, for the practically offended Croatian names and last names, that only the Ministry should have, using these publications, a register of names and names that would be shared by the Croatian citizens, where they could choose their own name and name to name their child. So it wouldn't happen, I'll be in a milder form, that someone called here's James Bond, 50 years old Bauk or Vinkovic. So I believe that this law does not prevent it, does not prevent other forms, since fellow Djurovic will also talk about it, I will talk about what has increased my time, I will stop here. And here, I appeal precisely to that, and I appeal first of all to Croatian citizens, first of all to parents, to fathers and mothers, to realize that the child is not a pet, but that the name and last name should at least bear from birth to death and not make a joke with the name of their own child. Because there won't be a Chegevar here, but there could be some other names, not from soap opera, but from some other movies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16686	Here comes Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Minister, MPs and MPs. In short, as a complement to this presentation by MP Vinkovic. We have submitted one amendment to this bill which may need further explanation. After further consultations, in fact, in this time between these two readings, we have come to the conclusion that this free and open permission of a string of personal names and names without any restrictions and without any criteria could actually create real instability in the short and long term, that it doesn't make any sense. So she can create problems in different databases at the end, which are kept by citizens or by their names or by their last names. And that is not based in any way on tradition, not in the history of the Croatian people, not all those who live here. Some other solutions that are legally introduced and changed are good and we have nothing against them. But here we just don't really see the point. Some have said that the law should be on the side of an individual, that this law makes us free even though there is only one man, that according to this one man we have to break the law. No, we don't think we can make laws for one man. So, the law can't, because we can't all the laws in this country from all segments of this society tailor towards one man or his problem. It's simply an anarchistic thesis, it's not even socially responsible, it rests on some idea of absolute freedom and irresponsibility of the individual towards the community. So the community has its own pattern, the community has its own model, the community has its own established practice and form as it's complex, as it's structured, so we're also by our names and last names of images and opportunities of that community. We can see for ourselves that there is no particularly meaningful reason why in Croatia someone would be allowed to enter an identity card or a citizen's queen more than three last names. Is this mentioned here, it is stated here in the explanation of the applicant one Dutch last name or which has 3 words in its last name. Well, if anyone marries or marries in the Netherlands takes that name, that is, if three words are introduced they will be able to name those 3 words. But Croatia is not a Latin American country, so it will not be, it is not even historically in Latin America. So let's have some national self-awareness, national dignity and some respect for ourselves. And such laws, such an approach, disrespect for yourself, your traditions, your values, what you are, what you call yourself, and what your parents were called, don't represent any opening of the space of freedom, at least we don't see it as the opening of some freedom and what kind of freedom. Also, this is the SDP amendment for Article 4 since some of us have read, some have not, and the audience has certainly not read the bill and those who are following us, so this is an article 4 which reads "that a child whose motherhood or fatherhood is established by 18 years of age can be determined by agreement of a new personal name. and to determine a new personal name for a child older than 12 years, it takes the child's consent and the amendment refers to the fact that it is already in children over 10 years of age." Now is it really 14, 12 or 10 years old? I'm not a child psychologist or a pedagogogogist, and it's really an arbitrary question as a basis, there's nothing in the first reading proposal or in the second reading, or in the amendment, there's any scientific basis that would cover the position of whether it's a child of 8 years, 10, 12, 14, 16 or just a full-time child. But here's what I really think about this amendment. I really think it's hard for anyone to defend this age of quality, which is the age in which a child will decide his name. It's very hard to defend. I don't know if anyone can appeal to some relevant scientific research, but when it comes to the number of names and last names, we have a very clear pattern of how we have our identity for centuries in the Croatian people in the Croatian state and we don't really see any reason for whom and why we make this kind of concession that one of Fridays can be called and typed as many names as he wants and as many names as he wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16687	Thank you. On the part of the presentation of his colleague Vinkovic, he has a colleague named Peđa Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16688	Here's a thank you. Well, counterpart Vinkovic was talking about family law and the issue of compliance of this bill with the Family Law. The Personal Name Act is a general law that speaks of changes in a personal name for all situations. The family law on the change of a personal name speaks only in one case, which is the case of adoption, adoption and change of a child’s personal name but not only of a personal name but of the whole status of a child and of the nationality associated with that change. And he talks about it exclusively in that part of the adoption case when these changes are caused by other reasons rather than by the simple decision of the parents who had previously appointed the child to change his name. The basis for this is also the debate held in the professional public before and during this period between the first and second readings, the professional public has proposed that this limit be reduced to 6 years. Of all the proposals, we at the club accepted and proposed the one relating to 10 years. And now, should we, as SDP MPs, be robots and completely uncritical to accept everything that comes from the government that is our government. No, we don't need that. It is our obligation and the citizens have chosen us to study the materials that are coming to us and if we feel that something can or should change and do so. It's our job to work together to cooperate. Sometimes there'll be dissonant Dons, my God, but that's life, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16689	Reply to the replica of counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16690	At least that this biggest problem when you stand up to the government as representatives and think with your own head, however, according to the ministry's explanation that the child's life span is in line with the provisions of the Family Law of the National Journal and the one relating to the change of personal name. For a change in the personal name of the adopted child, the Family Law provides for the consent of a child older than 12 years of age. So it's clear to me that it's about the adopted child, but I'm saying that there's still a need to coordinate her first of all, and I don't see her with this amendment on the basis of which, based on which scientific evidence, a child who's 10 years old can give his consent. It is likely that this age limit of 12 years was based on some scientific indicators. As far as my children Luke and Anna are concerned, they certainly won't change, nor will I think of changing their name, and some will be called Zumbul-aga Imbrahim-pasa children. That's what they're looking at right now. That's Brank's answer. I don't know if this law can prevent one such nakarad because if not someone I don't enter the nationality of someone Ibrahim is normal but God dear in Slavonia except when they were and when they crossed Slavonia on their way to Budapest, nobody was Ibrahim except those who were pushed, and my family was not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16691	We're done discussing clubs. In an individual debate, my first colleague, Mirela Holy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16692	Thank you, Vice President. I will talk very briefly about this final proposal of the Law on Personal Name and that in order to express my great satisfaction with this bill, the Government has fulfilled one of the pre-election promises. This short or small text, but the great importance of the bill has raised a scale of human rights, or it will just raise a scale of human rights and status rights of individuals or of citizens and of the Republic of Croatia to a much higher level than that of ordinary people who have never met this type of problem in their lives may seem to be pretentious or overstated or qualified. That's why I'd like to give a great deal of commendation to Minister Arsen Bauk and the Ministry of Administration. I will specifically refer to a small but extremely important difference in relation to the still applicable Personal Name Act, which determines that a change in the name should be made to the advertisement board for a month so that another or interested public can be shown about this change. It is unnecessary to say a completely pointless provision that violates the privacy of individuals who change the name for any reason, regardless of whether it is a birth identity, whether it is a change of faith, so whether it is intended to change the name for some national reasons or similar because the personal name is a personal matter of every individual. I would like to stress here that because of this provision that will now go to history, there are a number of Croatian citizens who belong to the so-called so-called. Gender minorities, i.e. transgender individuals, have had very big problems. Because it's already in itself embarrassing when you have to advertise your own name, or change your name on the ad board, and you're doing it for some personal or religious or national reasons, but when you're advertising a change of name from one sex to another, it's really a terrible trauma for people who are already living in the real hell by themselves. And that is why I believe that this final bill is indeed one commendable document that all clubs should support because this way really raises a set of civil values in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16693	Thank you, colleague Holly. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16694	Dear colleague Holly, I agree with you when you talked about why a change in your own name or last name should be advertised on an ad board because there is one famous case in the Republic of Croatia when a Finnish director is going to take revenge on his critics to make one film and in which he called the worst characters by the last names of these critics. Those critics sued him, and the court ruled that they had no right of authority on their last name. So everyone can call themselves what I call myself, I don't have the right to my authorship, I don't have my name and name. If someone calls me, that's why they are too, when you see at the end of the movie that they're random or last name or characters it's also legally unfounded because every character can be called after either of us and you don't have the right to protect your name on account of what someone else is called. So it's groundless to advertise on the board at all because it has an environment with it if someone wants to be Suleiman, Branko, Djuro or anything else. So there's no reason for this to be advertised on the board, i.e. Right to freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16695	Second replica, colleague Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16696	A colleague is partly and right when she said that I would say the citizens had first and foremost an inconvenience with a name, a last name, etc. I understand, but they may have had some discomfort precisely because at birth, parents didn't think about their last name, not their last name, but their names that they gave because they had very interesting and interesting names. Well, I'm not going to mention it here right now 'cause somebody's probably gonna think that those last names aren't suitable for councilmen, but for example. One is buttocks. It's not that guy from our little clinic but that last name exists in Croatian last names. But what can happen to this law if we allow a citizen to use more words in both his name and last name, so we can get one really big illogical puzzle, that I don't list everything now, because it was also when the masses were paid for those American soap opera actresses, when they were worried he wanted to get married, where this, first, second, third lover was giving children such names so they connected them with the locals. So it might happen, here I love these cartoon novels, comic books, that someone might eventually be called Ante Kaitana Lopez Martinez and Gonzales plus Ibrahim Pasha, Zumbul-aga, Sultan Suleiman defiant, etc. Anything can happen, therefore, to this law and to this ministry, first of all, to find and find the right measure, and yet to argue that the basic problem of this law is because it is not in line with the Family Law and that none of us representatives, at least who are not those professions, can determine that the child of 10 years is so mature, regardless of what is now on the Internet and what is on Facebook, etc., but that it is not mature enough to decide only his name and last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16697	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16698	Dear colleague Vinkovic, I believe that the right to its own name is the fundamental human right of every individual or individual and I really don't see what the problem is if someone wants to have 10 names in their own name. He will have or he will have problems in his daily life with it, but it is his choice or her choice. I really don't see why anyone else, including you, would have any objection to that subject. If someone decides on something like that for some reason, I really don't see any problem at all. If that person doesn't consider it a problem, then you shouldn't think of it as a problem either. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16699	Thank you. It is up to counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16700	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I think the final proposal for a law on a personal name that adopted a whole series of proposals and suggestions from MPs, regardless of what political options they came from, is about how the resolution of both this ministry and the entire government is to get a good law, a modern law. I must point out that parenting is also the status quo in Croatia, and even before in the former state, it was the most advanced in Europe. And with a bill like this today, it's certain that we'll still remain a feather in that sense. I will only point out that 10 years ago there was a big symposium in Dubrovnik where we got all the praises about our queens and our status as our laws regulate citizens' status issues, and especially with these changes, this will improve even more. A major dispute here has led to a general possibility that parents freely determine their child’s name. I think that's it, I'm going to leave these people behind and I'm not going to compromise with their attitudes, which they think shouldn't be that the state should get involved. I stand exactly the opposite position as it is with this bill of law, that absolute freedom be given to parents to determine the name of their child. After all, we have, unfortunately, systems in the world that determine whether a child is born or not. The right to a personal name I think that the Government is fully following this bill the 1989 Convention on the Rights of a Child who, in Article 7, is just saying that the child is entitled to a name determined by parents. Smart enough. Our history is also very rich. There's a lot of colleagues here talk about it for a long and wide time. Maybe we should just remind ourselves that they are making, so only Austria introduces a name and last name obligation and keeping a register, i.e. The queen. So the Austrian OGZ is speaking with its novel in 1916, and even a good part about freedom of designation, and so in a similar way, the Code of Civilian, Italian Civil Law. The special Anglo Saxon law refers precisely to the designation and connects it with the right to privacy, which we also manage well. As far as consent is concerned, this is a good question, and it may be a challenge for people who may not be familiar with the Family Law and its application, so we must also make sure that this 12-year-old limit changes to 10 years because for more than 30 years in our case-law, not only in the case of court practice, but also in our law, which includes the family law that parallel one, that in divorce parents are asked for the opinion of a child who turned 10 years old with whom parents want to live. And it's been existing for 30 years. So much for those who don't know about it, and they don't have to know all that. Therefore, it is also likely to be managed and it is good that this 12-year-old limit should be brought down to 10 years, as proposed by this amendment. I would like to mention something very substantial here in determining a personal name, that it may in practice occur, the theory may raise a problem, and then in practice the question can arise, so in the adopted child, in the adopted child, which is the name of the parents, and as one of the parents who adopted the child. But a child has the right or anyone to establish paternity, so yes, what if, during that period, up to 18 years of life, a child, a fatherhood, or a motherhood of one of the parents. And Article 14 thus says that parents can agree on a new personal name. So, he's a parent now, so he'd have to get along a little bit. Likewise, at the birth of a child at home or elsewhere, and not at the hospital, I am glad that these remarks have been adopted and not only our remarks but the Rod Association. However, it is always said of the mother who gave birth and therefore, that fact should be established. However, I draw a parallel with the Family Relations Act, which also in my head on the establishment and dispute of paternity and motherhood gives birth to a mother who has been deprived of an egg cell to refute motherhood to the woman who gave birth to her child. Therefore, this woman would have the right to determine the name of the child. Therefore, this should also be taken into account. And I note, the government must make sure that the Family Law is changed and again, so agree to certain provisions in that law where the provisions on the dispute and establishment of paternity and motherhood remain as I just told you earlier. But this provision remains undeniable that the mother is always the one who gave birth to the child. It puts courts in an impossible situation. And that's what I told the representatives of the then government. However, it was obvious that it was not known what was subversive, which is an unsupervised assumption, and I ask that it be corrected as soon as possible. And here, finishing this debate of yours. I think the praise is worth this fact that it's a different excerpt, that one document is an excerpt, and that the excerpt, the birth certificate, the marriage paper, and that people who have changed sex, have no such problem that they can, therefore, be served in legal traffic. So I support the adoption of this bill. No matter how many names a man has, or has one name, but how many words the name consists of. Let there be a lot of words, but it's important that a man is not a number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16701	Thank you, colleague Antičević-Marinović. Three replicas to your exposure. First colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16702	Dear colleagues, you have spoken of whether this law is modern, whether it represents an avant-garde in the legislation. Well, I wouldn't even mention it, I would define that term. I would have determined the concept of freedom. He gives more freedom. Modern should not often mean that something is good. Let's just say that there's an example of me going back to what we used to say, Branko Copic has in one of his anecdotes, in one of his stories the same example of a change in the name of a person and comes to the office of a man who wants to change his name and is called Mirko Šupak. And a cheerful man who does change asks well with joy what your name would now be. Well, I'd be Slavko Asshole now. Different concept of beauty of name. You also have this anecdote of Branko Chopic, read it. Therefore, this is true and, according to the true anecdote, Copic wrote about it. So the only question is that the legislator can't actually determine what we want to call ourselves. It's up to us. Are we gonna lose our identity? That depends on us, not the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16703	Thank you. Replication response, Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16704	With your last line that I heard because then I wouldn't raise my line because I absolutely agree with it. We all objected that our land would be bought by foreigners. And because we're offering them for sale, the state didn't say we had to sell them to a stranger. The same is true when determining a personal name and last name and that it depends on parents. I think that when we discuss this, while respecting this freedom, we must respect both dignity and parents, so their right that the state gives them in an unsuspected form to respect it. And throughout history, it was because it was also the last name and it was made even from nicknames, from certain qualities. You've said a lot about it and it's not at all questionable. So Carlo's big, Pippin's small or bald, Ludvik's pious, etc. and so much closer. However, it seems to me that, and it was my suggestion which was not appreciated but I believe that the time will come very soon that parents will have the right to determine not only the name of the child but also the last name regardless of what they are called. The reasoning of rejection states that a relationship must be made, both husband and wife when they conclude marriage do not have to take the name of another mate, so that does not mean that they are not connected with life and marriage together. So that doesn't seem like the right explanation. And practical reasons sometimes lead parents to name someone else as they are not at all called. And that will depend on us as you yourself have said to your dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16705	Next replica, counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16706	Thank you very much. So here I am going to replicate to an esteemed colleague about her alleged that Croatian nuts are actually a feather in Europe according to their status and history, etc. I think the basis of this law will stop because here's the minister who hasn't told us anything about it, this law will come into effect after the publication in the National Journal in maybe 10 days, 15 days, and he didn't tell us if the services are ready for this kind of law? What will happen when someone based this law in 15 days comes into the home office or to the M.P. or I don't know where to come, changes their name, wishes to have a name of 30 words and comes to that necessary service or, say, to the MUP, we have a surface here of 5 square centimeters where they can fit the name and last name. Will he be able to get an I.D. with his full name and last name? We didn't say anything about it. Are our nuts ready with their documents to be completed, do we have information programs that can solve and accept it? The longest name in the world has 161 words. Who says one of the Croats doesn't want to be a Guinness and a record player and put 163 words in the name and last name immediately? What will Croatian services, the state, do to enable them to do so? Can it fit on one of these IDs? Where's he gonna stop? He can't. That's why this story is on loose feet, and that's why this isn't, and I say no matter what it has, we've heard examples that want to say we have more names and last names, but I don't think we need this kind of freedom because we have what we've heard and history and traditions and there's only enough name for someone to call us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16707	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16708	I am always amazed by the fact that people who often debate in the Assembly are constantly calling for a tradition by imposing on citizens to behave traditionally and thus, leaving for themselves all sorts of freedoms. That's not good. So we can't just walk away from ourselves, but what's good for the citizens, and what's wrong with them after all, because certain laws, almost every law imposes restrictions. This is one of the laws that allows one fundamental human right, and I'm saying that it's based on the Convention on the Protection of a Child that parents freely determine the name of a child. I think these concerns of yours would have been less in any case if you had read the provision of Article 2(4) a little better, so that a person whose personal name contains a lot of words in legal traffic can choose the word he will serve. That's one thing. And now, after this law, we will also discuss the Queen's Law where you will see that they are being conducted in electronic form with much less resources and that your dilemmas will be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16709	And the last replica, colleague Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16710	Well, here I am, a distinguished colleague, I would not consider this law to be a perian that we prove ourselves in the EU, we saw yesterday what the EU has yet given us in order to get close to the EU at all, but on the side of that. I didn't mean it in the debate on behalf of the club, but one such law that allows wide freedom all the time is related to the Family Law, related to parents, mentions and parents who are not alive, is also normally related to the Center for Social Care. I'm asking the question now, since here we are a few months ago and against which the law is what we were written, where is the extramarital community here, where is a business woman here, and do we show this law to Europe that this really is a peri-judgment in the legislation? What about these rights of those people, which you specifically swore to and said that this was primarily the achievement of not Croatian but world democracy? And as for the Social Services Center and giving their consent, the Social Services Centre has no idea that my children exist. He'll have no idea if I'm possibly a parent, as a foster parent or as their mother, my wife wants to go to the bank to raise the money we pay each month, possibly buy a child if your parents get into trouble you just have to go to the Social Care Center to get someone from the administration to give you consent, and he didn't pay a dime to buy something from your child of that money. This is the pen of our laws and the inconsistency of the law with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16711	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16712	This law is a colleague in accordance with all other laws. The family is absolutely in agreement, absolutely. And I think with this age line, if this amendment is adopted and I believe it will, we're absolutely in agreement. But this law solves some other questions, or not identical, but where certain content overlaps, they are absolutely complementary to each other. And once again, I would point out often in my discussions, and that's good for you to call on the citizens' opinion, and so, where is such a mistrust that the citizens, so that we are something smarter and we prefer the children of the citizens than they are? So let's not be so underestimating citizens, and let's be proud that something is good and modern and that others can learn in Europe from us, not just us from others.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16713	Thank you. It's next in an individual debate from colleague Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16714	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So I supported this law in first reading, of course, as one improvement in the 1992 law. We supported it, of course, with all our comments from the debate and those of the problems that we had discussed and adopted in the final text. Here I am pleased that some of these remarks are appreciated, which in my opinion is a significantly improved text, this final proposal, but I would like to warn here of some other irregularities to be taken into account. In fact, I would agree that the choice of a personal name and a change in a personal name is certainly part of one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of every citizen. But we also know that the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens can only be limited to the rights and freedoms of other citizens with whom they live in the community. And that's why there are laws that regulate all this in these and other areas. In fact, the liberalisation of the election or the change of the personal name was introduced by this law primarily in the provision that no citizen should mention the reason why he wants to change his personal name and that this change will no longer be advertised on the advertising board. We've heard here that it's a completely pointless, pointless provision, and I'd sort of agree that it was pointless the way it was smuggled into the former law, and even more pointless because it wasn't being carried out as we heard from the proposings themselves. But the fact that, in some ways, the person who participates, therefore, the citizen participates in legal relations and social relations and is identified by his name and last name. As long as we don't arrange in this country that in all legal relations and in all social relations, a person doesn't identify himself with a personal identification number, which means that we should also have a personal identification number on the mailbox. And in all court proceedings, generals would not be taken by name, last name, age, age, and OIB and in any civil litigation of the OIB. Until then, in this legal traffic, we identify ourselves with a personal name and last name. I talked about those abuses last time. They are not solved by this final bill. So, everyone's freedom to change their name, but it's also the freedom of another citizen when he entered some legal relations with a person named Ivanovic to know that from today, and I'm in the middle of some litigation or maybe a criminal that I'm leading on a private lawsuit, and it's my right to know that this person is no longer called that, that it's called different. Because in the end, delivery in court will also be disabled because the court won't know by anything that this person's name is different from tomorrow. These abuses should be paid attention. So that's what I was talking about last time. Some remarks have been adopted, however, remain in Article 7 of something, in Article 6 of a provision which, in such a system, records of the conduct of the criminal proceedings will simply be inadmissible unless the referents receive guidance. And this means that the referent gets an indication that, on the occasion of a request for a change in the name of the persons, it must bring the conviction of all courts in the Republic of Croatia that no criminal proceedings are being conducted against it. In practice, someone who came, I said, someone who came to Zagreb had a residence in Zagreb, could have changed it two months ago to ask for a change of personal name, against him could be conducted in front of a court in Split, but the referent would probably have asked for it and that was the case so far, a confirmation of the impunity of the Zagreb court. I repeat, I also said this on the occasion of a debate on the Law on Criminal Records, that there is no single register with us on the conduct of criminal proceedings. This is linked to the provision of this law which provides for an exemption from the right to change the personal name, for persons against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted. I personally don't see that logic either, why should a change in the name of the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted, when it's actually the simplest thing. If it brings a confirmation that a criminal case is being brought against it, then that court shall be informed of a change of name and there shall be the least reason to make it impossible for it to do so. If you know where the criminal proceedings are being conducted. So, I don't see that ban, why would she be banned, and some person who's convicted, against whom the legal consequences of the conviction are still in force, who's serving a sentence, etc. She wouldn't be banned from it. I see that in this final text in Article 9, it has been amended, and this provision has been supplemented on the basis of our debate, so that, after a change of name, the parent is obliged to submit a notice on the change in the personal name of the bodies keeping records of the citizens, and for convicted persons, but beware, only for those in whom the rehabilitation deadline of the change of the personal name takes place. What about the persons who are serving the sentence, what about the persons facing the legal consequences of the conviction? Therefore, in all these cases, the authorities in which the judgment is carried out should also be informed, in respect of the legal consequences of the convictions. So there are possible certain abuses. The same question was asked by his colleague, Boris, and I think that his colleague Antičević, I think, did not simply answer for the following reason, called for Article 2(4), and said that this will resolve the issue of a person who has perhaps 8 words in his name and last name and a question of personal documents and adjustments to the information system as a whole. That this will be resolved by applying this attitude, for it says that if a person is listed in a queen, he can make a statement about which words will be served in legal traffic. So if the word can then depend on the person's will or will not, I'll have 8 last names or names and I can determine that I'll use it with 2 but I don't have to. So here we have to write the seas, and I ask you not to make it happen like some other law that we then change after a month because they are practically inconclusive, and we will have them here on the council benches for a few days, although we have well-meaningly warned about this problem. So it must say here that a person may have 25 words of name and last name, but that he must determine which ones will be served in legal traffic and how many words can be used for legal service because otherwise you will have to enter 25 words in the ID card. And another thing I don't understand, he says, is that this statement about which personal name or words will be used in legal traffic so that it can be recalled once, and a personal name can be changed unlimitedly. So I don't understand logic, why I can change my personal name infinitely, and only once can I change which part of that name I'm going to use. Here's what I really don't understand. Similarly, Article 2 shows that a person whose name consists of more than one word is obliged to use the same personal name in legal traffic. I would say that there should be an obligation to use the same name in order of the word in its own name because it makes sense then. So this certainly about abuses, I don't think this law solves enough the question of possible abuses of name change in relation to legal traffic and to all other citizens. There's something else I'd like to say about the age limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16715	You're bringing Lovrin to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16716	I will. Then I won't mention the age limit, but here I am praying that in 8 days' time, this law will come into force, please don't let what we heard yesterday happen on a show from one of the ministerial assistants who has quite cold-bloodedly said in the matter of legalisation that the referents haven't learned everything yet, and then they often misinformed the citizens, but that's what they'll do, so they'll learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16717	Thank you very much. The final word of the motion is made by the Minister of Management Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16718	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In one part, I agree with MP Djurovic when he said there was arbitration. Yes, so in most laws there is a presence and regulation is the presence of arbitration and the question is whether or not we were good arbitrationists and we were well-arbitrated. Now I'm going to try to explain some changes to the law. Of course, we are going from a law that is in force, and now the personal name could be changed, the only procedure that has been a little longer than before. And all these problems that have been so far, we've now solved some of them. If it turns out we need to fix it, we'll fix it, but I think this law is an improvement compared to the existing law. First, as to the number of words in the name and to answer Mr. Boric, so if the question is whether someone who has 164 words in hypothetical name and 218 in their last name will receive a ID card with that name, they will not, because the I.D. Regulation will prescribe the number of characters that can be in a personal ID not the number of words, therefore they will not get. But his name will remain in the womb, and in legal traffic will be used by a name that is, and it will create problems for him, so it will create problems for him not for the state, a person will create problems. So why would the state limit freedom in that way? This has been a question so far, so it must have been a matter of arbitration that it could have two names and two last names. And the amendment that says two words in the name of two words in the last name and the amendment that says that you can have two words in the name and three words in the last name of the same arbitration and that you wrote 5-5 that is also arbitrary and always asks for reasons why. We don't think there's any excuse in this case that the state is restricting the individual in that part, of course in this second part of it, so we put it on the basis of a parliamentary debate last time a provision that says when no change of personal name will be granted. Representative Vinkovic asked who would decide whether something was a name or not. Court. The court will ultimately decide, so first the Office of State Administration in the first degree and then the ministry in the second, then it goes unless the party is satisfied with the court procedure and will ultimately decide the court. How sensitive this question shows one decision of the Constitutional Court on the appeal of one person because it was not granted a change of name that we had a verdict with 4 separate opinions of judges. So it's also arbitrarily and it's a very thin line that and when the state needs an individual to protect itself. There are different opinions, we think we've found a good limit in what needs to be released to an individual and what needs to be done to the state. The second idea of MP Vinkovic was an even greater arbitration to make a register of names that Croatian citizens may have, it would only be arbitration. So it's another reduction, so it's an additional investment of countries into individual rights. I don't think it's necessary. Now, as far as the change of names was concerned, they've been brought in and delivered to the institutions so far. We're not reducing anything here, and the name change solution is also in the OIB, and I believe that now I don't know whether exactly to the extent Lovrin said it was written on the OIB's mailbox and that on the basis of it, but it's doubtless that we want to connect the registers as much as possible and that the OIB is the link between all the registers or as the primary key of the database is said in information. It's an idea, and I believe that the OIB was introduced with that duck, even though I don't know with which cancer was abolished by the JMBG that predicted the same thing, but now it's a matter of a few years ago, so no. And now there's the citizens' home number and now the citizens' home number is being assigned. And it's just a matter of mathematically whether he's generated whether the OIB is generated from a number or not, but that's the thing for engineers it's not now. But we're talking about something that's the primary key to the database, that's my profession, that I know so much about, so one piece of information based on which you can identify the person unequivocally and unequivocally. It is now the OIB, it was JMBG, and of course it has as Mr Vuksic said, there are a number of people with the same name and last name, and then we can tell them from the date of birth. But they could happen to be born by accident on the same day, then by address, and they could be at the same address, and then we end up identifying them by OIB. Also, as regards compliance with the Family Law, in the current law, it was a provision to seek the consent of a child up to 10 years of age. After that, in the debate we suggested raising that limit, some were in favour, some were against the expert public. Some have suggested a descent to 6. So the expert public consulted, and she didn't have a unique attitude about it, and of course we have to lay down some regulation. It may be as simple to leave as it has been so far and change if there are great reasons for that. And in the end, as regards the number of words in the name, so the problem of the number of words in particular in the last name was, for example, the problem of our emigrants in countries where the last name is given by the parent's last name, but they have a line that is known, so the mother's last name is first, the father's last name is second or the like. And then we had because of this current provision, so our citizens in South America had problems because they had to define their last name so that they were actually wrong and they had to prove there that their mom wasn't the mother who was expected to be in their last name and Dad wasn't the same kind of guy who was supposed to be in their last name in order. So the fact is if we talk about tradition that, I don't know the exact data but probably over 95% of Croatian citizens and citizens have two words in their last name and two words in their name. I think people with one word in their last name and one word in their name are prevailing. So you can't do that, I don't think that's how tradition can be threatened, there's no need to prescribe a name register, and I don't think it matters how much anyone has words but what kind of man they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16719	Thank you, Minister. We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first is colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16720	Thank you very much. Well, I must again conclude that the minister has not answered this question asked by me and my colleague, Lovrin, who has been mistreated without reason, which is important in the procedure. If it says yes, it's freedom, if it writes, it's an order. Now the minister's been talking about freedom all morning and we're all talking about freedom, we can have 50 names, and then you come to the police, and they tell you that since you can have 33 signs that it can fit on your ID card, then you only have one name. What kind of freedoms are we talking about then, Minister? Then you can have one name, that name will be entered by the police when they punish you on the road, when they meet you on the street and they want to legitimize you or what I know. What happens to the names we had, we have them in the testimonies, in the indexes, in the diplomas, and now we change them, whose costs are that, are we ready for the ministers. What's going to happen, we haven't heard from you, this provision clearly says that when you have a wish, you have 20 names, you can have it on your ID card, only it won't stop because your ID card is small. And it will be within ten days for you by one of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who want to be so little trouble or want to be interesting and perhaps to the media, they will. I don't know what it costs us here to make a commitment just to prevent these possible abuses, and freedom to have too many names, to be told clearly. Because if someone in Pucists remembers it now, they want to be called Romario Desouza Faria Bauk, where he'll write it down, where he'll get it, nowhere. By law like this, nowhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16721	Thank you. The next line has Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16722	I again claim, Mr. Minister, that this law, as it says in this explanation, was not written by me or proposed by the law, namely here it says that the Family Law foresees the consent of a child over 12 years of age. On the other hand, when I was talking about the name register, so first of all, that the ministry would issue a brochure that would enable parents who are married, who are in an extramarital community, and who would be rich enough not to tell that business-affiliated woman what to do, too, to eventually find a beautiful name that does not have to be exclusively Croatian but used in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise my name is Croatian, it comes from a similar, probably like Milanovico, comes from ancient Croatian mythology, but then on that, although the most famous Zoran may have been Zoran Slavnic, and now I believe that I have removed him from the list of those famous. But I was talking about a register that is related to Article 8 because if we leave it to a reference that will determine, and here is a colleague who mentioned that many referents have not yet been stalking their jobs, says a change of personal name will not be approved if the proposed personal names are insulted and threatened by the rights and freedoms of others etc. Now I wonder what kind of name it is if it doesn't exist somewhere written, who decided what name it is that offends morale, which offends the rights of others etc. One might think of someone who can't be called Zoran Vinkovic because it offends someone. So that's the register I'm talking about, and this would be one auxiliary register or brochure that would allow a child not to be given names that border on stupidity. Another proposal, one that wants to change his name and last name into a hundred words, it won't fit his card but must be sent by law to a psychologist because there's obviously something wrong with him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16723	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next replica, colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16724	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'd kind of replicate the same thing as my colleague Boric. In fact, you told the ministers that it couldn't happen not to get a card, that there would be no discrepancy in the information system because another law would determine how many characters would be in the identification document. And now I'm asking you, if it says in that law to enter a personal name, and a personal name can have, I'm not going to go into extremes but let's say eight words in the name and last name, it's just not going to stat here. Therefore, because you write in this law that a person can determine which words of that name will be used in legal traffic, I well warn you to amend that article with your amendment and to say it must be determined, because it must also say how many words it must specify. Therefore, it must determine from that personal name two words as to how much it stands in the ID card as an identification document and will thus be served in legal traffic. If he wants to change that, then he's going to change some other two words and he's going to change his document. So, in this way, this law remains applicable, but no one else can decide which two words they will have because they have two boxes in the document, so they will choose which two words of 8 will they use. So we didn't get a valid answer, and the correct answer would be that Article 4 of Article 2 of the word "can" be changed to "must". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16725	Thank you. And the last replica of a colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16726	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you told the OIB that you don't understand why some things are going to happen one way or the other. So, the aim of the introduction of the OIB was to have all the data in one place. And that's exactly what colleague Lovrin was talking about in the central register if someone had parked wrongly, if someone had requested a building permit for the house, if someone was being prosecuted, if someone had bought shares on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. So that all of this can be withdrawn from the central register under the precise protocol of the institution that needs it. That was the goal of the OIB. Among other things, take a look at the final document on the introduction of the OIB, and then you will see what has been revealed in your resolution ministry, how many unmatched data between you and the Ministry of the Interior, how many uninformed children were in the MUP up to 16 years and a number of other data. So that was the goal of the OIB. And at the end of the crown of all this together, there was supposed to be a card on which both health and driving and personal, all together on one card. But why does he care about this project? I don't know. Maybe someone's in the way. Why not JMBG? In 2002, JMBG was abolished for revealing certain personal data. And secondly, all the Member States of the European Union have such identification so as to say the markings have up to 11 digits. This was the reason why it went to the OIB, with the unique number of citizens serving as reference data for pairing names, last name since we have in the same place a tremendous number of people with the same name and last name. After all, it's also a problem at the Department of Justice's office because it's impossible to carry things out. So, you have to insist on the central register, you have to insist on the OIB, and then all these provisions in all these laws won't be controversial, they won't be problematic. Because if someone comes looking for a ID card, so they can withdraw all the data, so actually if they ask for a change of last name among other things they'll see that they're being conducted against him and the criminal proceedings on that and that data. But in order to get to that, and rightly so, colleague Lovrin warns about it, there are some things to be done. After all, I don't know if the Ministry of Administration has signed that Protocol at all on the possibility of the Ministry of Finance pulling that data into the central register.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16727	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16728	Okay, I'll get used to the new one. So, as for Mr. Shucker, I absolutely agree with everything you've said. So my intensity, the question of the OIB, was not why it was introduced because it was clear to me why it was introduced, but it was a question of why in 2002 and it was a kind of self-critical, or criticism to that government why it abolished JMBG as a data because it contained the same thing as what the OIB now contains, so a unique identifier except that it has two digits less. Yeah, the OIB has two digits... All right, we got more time. [[You can't hear it.]] [[Intruder Zgrebec: Once we have finished the debate and you will discuss it.]] So maybe we're just speaking a different language because of different professions. So the JMBG could generate a number with 11 digits that wouldn't have been all that you said, and the JMBG was basically what the OIB was, so a unique identifier. One JMBG could only have one citizen and there were no two citizens with the same JMBG. So in that sense, I just mentioned it. So I think I'm okay with that, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16729	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposal when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16730	Final proposal of the Law on Personal Name, second reading of PZ No. 92. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the SDP representative club, MP Drazen Djurovic. Please. Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Administration, respected Zoran Piculjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16731	The amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives is not accepted on Article 2 because it is precisely the intensities of this law in avoiding... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16732	Can we do it again, Deputy Minister? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16733	Do you want to do it again or should I say it again?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16734	Yeah. I have an amendment to the SDP. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16735	Okay. Then we'll get him first. I thought you had the first HDSSB. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16736	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16737	Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is hereby adopted. The explanation goes in favor of the rights of the child and all other solutions that are in other laws... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16738	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Number 2 of amendments to the HDSSB's Club of Representatives Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16739	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16740	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16741	It is not accepted, for the very reason that the demarcation of the restrictions is the applicant's intensity was in the choice of words for a personal name. and the practice is just about Croatian emigration shows that such a commitment by the promoter is correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16742	Thank you very much. Let's hear the amendment's proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16743	Mr. President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister. What is your name, what was your father and mother's name, grandfather and grandmother, uncle, aunt and yours and mine and all of us, and who of them had five names, five last names or 22 last names, as your proposal for the Law allows for a personal name? I don't know what people that law applies to but people living in the Republic of Croatia certainly don't. Therefore, my proposal for an amendment was to limit the number of words in the last name to 3 and thus allow and allow some pages to add two or three more words to their last name, and I think that the intensity that the number of words in the last name is allowed to be unlimited is not in line with the tradition of Croatian title or title of any other people living in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and I really don't see who your proposal refers to. I'll remind you, if you were thinking of Latin America in that same Latin America, our last name c, j, I can't write those letters anymore, and I think that Latin Americans in the Republic live relatively small numbers. So we should still keep the tradition of that form of name and last name as common in these areas. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16744	Thank you very much. Please make a statement. Who is the amendment of the HDSSB Representatives Club that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. What? I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 86 for and 34 abstentions have been adopted by the Personal Name Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16745	We move on to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State nuts, first reading, P.Z. No. 165. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144. Up to 150. The debate was conducted by the competent parliamentary authorities, and you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. On behalf of the motionary, Minister of Management Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16746	Thank you. It is, therefore, the first reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State nuts. The existing State Queens Act was passed in 1993 and started in 1994. The provisions of that law stipulate that the state nuts are records of the personal status of citizens entering the facts of birth, marriage and death, and other information on those facts laid down by law. Public affairs are carried out by the county offices or the City of Zagreb's City Office in charge of the affairs of the general administration, and the state queens are directly led by civil servants of the mother. The State Queens Act stipulates that the national queens are kept in the prescribed forms and printed in permanent ink, and that they are kept in two copies. The first copy of the original and the second copy of the pair representing the copy of the first copy. The second copy of the national queen may also be conducted by automatic data processing. At the time of the adoption of the Law on State wombs and in the first year of application, all personal status records were carried out by hand, and documents were issued and printed by means of a typewriter. The information is then coming in and in the last 10 years it has been accessed by intensive input of data from the national queens into the information base, and it is continued to be carried out daily in the home offices. In the home offices of the Republic of Croatia with state on 15 December 2011. It was entered in the books 30 857 thousand 860 entries, of which 26 million 952 129 were included in the information base, totaling 87%. I'm talking about the state before, here's more than 10 months. Now that's even more. The use of information technology has made it easier and faster for parents to issue documents, which have also affected the efficiency of work compared to the exercise of citizens' rights. Information technology is increasingly used to provide services to citizens, as well as to connect information bases to other state records on citizens. In view of the high percentage of entries from the state nuts into the information base, the conditions for leaving the country's manual leadership and for the national queens to be managed exclusively in electronic form in the future have been met. The basic documents on the basis of which the data is entered into the national nuts remain in paper form. The regulation to keep state nuts and other auxiliary records in electronic form will contribute to financial savings in the Offices of the State Administration, since it will not be necessary to obtain the books of the national queens and the supporting records. Furthermore, the long-term application of the State Queens Act has shown that many provisions have become obsolete and do not apply or that life situations have changed and that they require a different legal regulation. In the last few years, the issue of enrolment in the womb of children born outside a health institution has been updated since it has not been prescribed which documents the applicant has to present to the mother in the application of the birth fact and for healthcare institutions do not act uniformly at birth outside a health institution and do not issue any documentation on that fact. The current law prescribes a circle of persons who are obliged to report the fact that a child born outside a health institution is born. In addition, when enroling a child born outside a health care institution in the application of a child's birth, the applicant shall prove that the child's mother is the woman who gave birth and, in accordance with the definition of motherhood, as prescribed in Article 53. Family law. In accordance with this new provision, it is further prescribed that in the application of the birth of a child born outside a health institution, the applicant should provide the parent with medical documentation on delivery. The time limit for reporting to a parent is also reduced to the personal name of a child, a child from two months from the date of birth of a child to 30 days from the day of birth. This is because it has been shown in practice that the period of 2 months is too long and that parents come to the mother much earlier to give the child a personal name so that they can obtain other documents for the child, e.g. health card and exercise other rights. It was also deleted from the existing law that the name of the child may, according to an agreement with the parents, report another person as a witness to the godfather since it was not applied in practice. Furthermore, the regulation and management of state queens in electronic form allows for the rapid exchange of notifications of entries, corrections and changes of data in the national nuts between the parent offices in the Republic of Croatia and between the home office and other bodies keeping records of citizens. The provisions so far have been laid down by the deadline of 3 days from the date of the entry of the correction, i.e. the change of the data in the State nuts for the reporting of the second home office or other body on the fact that the deadline proposed for the notification is immediately after the entry is made, i.e. the correction or modification of a certain fact in the national nuts. The long-term application of the State Queens Act has shown that certain changes should be made in the number of different documents issued from the national queens, in particular the queens born and the data shown on them. This bill also maintains the provisions so far that extracts from the national nuts contain data entered in the national nuts until the time of issue of the extract. A provision relating to certificates issued on the basis of the national nuts has been amended as they contain, according to the new proposal, the latest valid data entered in the nuts until the certificates shown in the corresponding headings are issued. Such a formulation has made it possible to issue only two types of documents out of the womb of the born, containing all the data entered in the womb by the time of issue and of the document and birth certificate in which the last valid data entered in the matrix will be entered at the time of issue of the certificate. A birth certificate will cease to be issued which has not been accepted in practice since proof of birth is most often sought and issued by the birth certificate. The paper in relation to the existing law is the adoption of the requirements of the representatives of LGBT associations and the documents of persons who have changed sex and the personal name will not show any changes made. Also, persons who have changed their personal name before gender change will not be shown any information about the change of personal name in documents. This protects the rights of such persons and prevents any form of discrimination against those persons. It is also a newspaper that the draft law prescribes that state-owned certificates are issued by a parent who has received a request from a party independently of the place of entry in the national queens. The current law did not contain such a provision, however, such a provision was contained in the implementing regulation, i.e. a guide to the implementation of the Law on State Mothers and the registration of adoptions in the queen of the born. It has therefore decided to install this provision into the law since it has been possible for citizens since 2008 to obtain State nuts in any home office irrespective of the place of registration. Furthermore, the proposal for a law sets out in more detail who and under what conditions has the right to gain insight into the state nuts or to see the files and the solution on the basis of which the entry into the national queens has been made. Also, infringements in law have been redefined. The draft law provides for a new provision governing the legal assumption and provides for a deadline for the handover of the married queens in diplomatic missions and consular offices abroad to be handed over to the competent office of the City of Zagreb. This is because there are no officials abroad in certain diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. a mothermaker who would be authorised to issue documents that make it difficult to obtain documents from these books to Croatian citizens whose marriages are registered in these queens. The fact that the number of consular marriages of Croatian citizens who marry in diplomatic missions and consular offices abroad has been greatly reduced in the past few years. By handing over the queens married to the competent Office of the City of Zagreb, Croatian citizens whose consular marriages are entered into the queens of the married will be able to obtain documents from these queens without a problem. As a consequence, a number of laws have been passed which prescribe a new title for legal institutes and state administrations, the bill proposed to bring the terms in the existing law into line. It is also proposed to bring the existing law in line with the provisions of the Family Law as well as a series of other regulations that have come into force in the meantime, and their application is related to this law. For example. Personal identification number law, Personal Data Protection Act and other. Since it is therefore a matter of first reading, of course we will consider all the comments and suggestions of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16747	Thank you very much, Minister. We have a replica of our colleague Ante Babic on your display. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16748	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, you said, if I understood correctly, the law so far did not contain a provision that such a provision was contained in the implementing regulation and guidance for the implementation of the State Queen Act and the entry into the queen of born and married. The use of information technology is certainly acceptable and it is certainly an unforgivable process for faster issue of documents but I did not notice that you paid attention to this queen married where the bridegrooms enroll in the wedding book. You know when a wedding is so when you sign up for the marriage queen I don't know how you're going to sign up and this proposal changes this State Queen Act doesn't say how it's going to be regulated. And secondly, you know that weddings are done either in parish offices or in the mother's office, and will you also encourage electronic queens for parish offices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16749	Before we break, we'll only listen to one more club. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16750	I thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, for your cooperation, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of amendments and additions to the State Queens Act. I think that the moment we bring, so this is only the first reading, when we adopt the final proposal of the State Queens Act in Croatia will indeed be a historic moment and, among other things, I hope our Minister Arsen Bauk will be remembered. In fact, it may be precisely because of this and the time to remember time and to give credit to all those parents, especially the old parents who had almost opened their books with no help whatsoever, whether it was the parent books of the dead, married, born depending on what the party was asking for, almost it was in for one or two lists most could be confused. So, we leave this one almost and romantic age in which even our Ante Kovačić wrote in the register. So these were also offices with these books which are undoubtedly the centers of our legal history and at all our Croatian history. But here comes a new age. Well, here I am, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I took the right to give in and confess to all those who have sacrificedly worked with their handwriting, almost adornment, and that for a time it was finally definitely behind us. A new time requires new technologies, new practices, all to be faster at the service of the citizens. So no more paper form, no more parent books in that sense. So, as the minister said in the future, the state queens will be conducted exclusively in electronic form. Perhaps now is the time to respond to those who may know well or have remembered the basic forms, so what is the basis, which is the basic entry, so that such an entry may be in an electronic book or in electronic form. It will certainly continue to be conducted, as the minister said, and this is also quite visible from the law, to continue in manually managed basic entries, i.e. they will mark only the legal basis, the basis for enrollment in electronic form. So, what could be the misunderstanding? I already spoke about it in my personal discussion, but here I will speak on behalf of the club, I will also point out that it is necessary to amend the Family Relations Act and that inconclusive legal assumption that the mother is always the one who gave birth to the child, and therefore, this will also apply to the person who has the right to determine the name of the child. So here I appeal to the minister himself, to the ministry, that also in the Government, these changes should be taken into account so that they would not have to change this law afterwards. It is also perfectly clear that this provision of 2 months that remains available to parents to determine the name, parents is too long, and that the fact of birth means creation, so not only one of the most joyous moments first of all for such a single family, but for the whole society, but it also creates a whole series of rights and obligations. So there is legal traffic which, of course, parents do on behalf of their own child and later until his adulthood. And it is certain that both the way and the speed of life determine different deadlines. What I seem to need to say is that the Government, or the Minister himself in its ministry, with its working group, is considering the provision of the article, the existing provision is Article 7 which remains, therefore, the first two paragraphs are deleted, and the provision remains for the state queens in which the last entry is over 100 years old to be kept by the Croatian State Archives. Today, however, praise God is not rare for those who are even a hundred years old. We can assume that they didn't have any ex post notes, records, no marriage, no childbearing, so their only entry is, they haven't changed their name, last name, so the fundamental one remained the same. When they were listed in the book, or in the birth register. Today we cannot, and I say it is no longer rare for a person to experience 100 years, so that we punish those persons, that they are going to the Croatian State Archives for their excerpt, that this is, however, we are both the last 30 years and the nation that has extended its life span in both sexes. So, for at least ten or twenty years to extend that limit. So here I am speaking at the SDP club, and besides, we have no other objections. I think we're finally going to save, so this is also a law that fits the speed of time without talking about the savings this law is going to make. And I'm also talking about that it's a good solution that all those who conclude marriage outside of Croatia and who will then, it's always been a problem in which the home office will register. Whether this is the place of the last residence because they often have a residence outside and it is now very simple for them to apply to the competent office of the city of Zagreb. Here, in support of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Queens Act, we expect in the SDP Club very quickly and finally the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16751	Thank you very much. We'll listen to the HDZ club and colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16752	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, unfortunately, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will say that we do not share this lice, which we have heard from the SDP club, and especially about the historical achievements of this law, but perhaps because of our public opinion that it would be clear to everyone what we are talking about about the State Queens Act or its amendments and additions to say that it is not a new fact that the state queens are being guided in written form of water and in electronic form, that is the case so far only so far being handled in one way and another. So, the basic book is a form of written form, and a copy or pair, or another copy of the queen, has been conducted in electronic form so far. Now, the government suggests that we think this process is no longer an information technology something new than it is the technology we apply in our business, the government is now proposing that we completely stop leading queens in the written form so far. Unfortunately, we have to say that there are a whole series of problems and failures that the Proposer, although the Honorable Minister has read these reasons for the law, is not mentioned and I think that the value is mentioned and that we must keep in mind when we talk about this law. One of the Republic of Croatia's commitments is the fact that it is a member of the International Commission on Civil Status, although it is there in '98, '99. The year when she became a full member has passed quite a rigorous procedure and you heard from counterpart Anticevic that the then government and the ministry have been praised for the way she handles the parenting affairs, then Croatia was one of the 16 member states, the other 15 were EU countries that were members and these international conventions, and then the Commission on civil states which, among other things, regulates the affairs of parenting, and now these changes seem to me that we are questioning these obligations because we no longer stick to what we have taken on those conventions. And these conventions have, among other things, accepted the fact that all these EU Member States that have a long tradition of keeping parent books and today keep parent books in writing but then of course parallelize these data to electronic media. So here's just an illustration to say that one of the forms of the certificates that are issued from these queens is that on the margins of such certificates are recorded other data from the parent books that you are erasing and you will no longer be leading them, so you will also be obliged to explain to the International Commission what kind of new certificates that we are about to issue. You have a whole series of confirmations from issuing copies from the queen's seventh language until you enter some data that you will now delete, or these data will no longer be kept. But that's what he said I'd technically object which is less important than the fundamental objections that we have on this bill. The first objection that this law is completely unclear is, in fact, how you conceived it he is nomotechnically unacceptable for a general debate in the first reading. Namely, the law that you propose changes and additions contain 38 articles of the law. Article 32 shall amend the existing law in Article 49. Then enter new articles 33 to 38 and do not delete existing articles in the law from 49 to 57 containing the basic text of the law. So if I understand correctly the amendments and the amendments to the law and the consolidated text will also bear provisions that will say that this law enters into force on 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal, which shall apply from 1 January 1994 and then your provision will apply from 1 January and will enter into force on 1 January 2013. As you have proposed amending and supplementing the law without eradicating from Article 49 to 57 of the existing law, you have brought de facto into trouble or in error all those who apply these laws because they no longer know what norms are in force. According to your proposal, Articles 49 to 57 of the existing law will remain in force. I think it's a failure that the ministry shouldn't afford, so it puts into question the immediate validity of the entire text and what the text refers to. Another thing that seems much more important to me than any other problem that I do not believe we will have time to cover is the fact that we hold that this law is contrary to the Croatian Constitution, and this is an article 21 that you are changing Article 30(2) of the existing law and you say "if corrections are necessary in other national courts or in other citizen records, the parent will immediately inform the competent authorities who keep those records". When you read Article 37. The Constitution will show that the personal data of citizens are particularly protected, that there is even a prescribed special surveillance over those who are informatively processing data, and here you say that the parent will be obliged to immediately inform all authorities responsible for keeping some records of the changes he has made in the queen. We think that's a deep violation of Article 37. The Constitution and that you must remove such an article and such a manner and the obligation that you make here from your parents because otherwise this law will be mature for the assessment of the constitutionality of certain provisions in the Constitutional Court. What we think is good, is that you give meaning to the information processing and we absolutely advocate informing all the queens that are involved here. But you've disrupted an existing state of mind that the minister initially said nothing about, which is that all the nuts that have been transmitted to electronic form so far have not completed this procedure and that you have parent books that have not been fully transmitted to electronic data management. So the question arises what will happen with data from Split-Dalmatia County in Sibenik-Kninska, and it seems to me that Zadar is where 80% of the enrolment in the state nuts is electronically processed, but 20% is not yet. If there are no more official records, I ask you how this will reflect on much more important material rights based on data from the parent books. And it's a matter of succession, of questions where we're all aware that we have land books especially on our islands where changes haven't been made over the centuries, so it's impossible because this official record in your history is going to be impossible to determine the succession order and the right to inherit people on certain properties. And it's a failure that makes us think that regardless of the progress of information technologies, you can't just throw out the obligation and the need to keep parent books in writing. However, it seems to us that what you were talking about, about savings that could be at 80 to 100 thousand kuna per year for the whole country, should not be a reason to abandon this way of leading the queens, and that when that time allows, when all that data is transferred and what is very important, the verified transmitted data in electronic form that you then decide that the queens can only be guided in this way. As suggested, it is not clear at all what will happen to these parent books, except those that are over 100 years old and will be handed over to the archive, which will be with the parent books whose records have not yet been transmitted into electronic form. What will happen to those books where there are other than mandatory and other data that the parents have written, and here are some colleagues who thanked me for that, I would say the efforts and work of the matriarchs over ten years who have managed to keep those parent books at the level that they can serve as official records to everyone, from I told family law to the right to inherit. Something was said to you in the replica. This law conflicts with the provisions of the Family Law, which tell you that the act of marriage is confirmed among other things by the government's signature in the Matice of Weddings. If we keep books in electronic form, if I'm not going to say paper forms in a color like that, and we don't have an e-signature law, then we can't predict that we're going to lead the Matika married in just the intended way. And it seems to us that you went there regardless of your good intentions too far and you will try to make sure that the European countries who did this job have the same experience, which is all the difficulties when you decide to transfer all the queens exclusively into electronic form. What we think, so I'll try to sum up our remarks. This law is nomotechnically messy, this law has not changed everything that needs to be amended in the existing law in order to make it clear which provisions of the law will, in the consolidated text, be amended and complemented. This law is questionable from a constitutional point of view, given that you allow data collection, personal data for records that you have not accurately prescribed and records that can become a very easy source of personal data abuse, and their protection is guaranteed. And given the fact that this law cannot be passed without amending the other laws to which it applies, and I said that it is contrary to the provisions of the Family Law, our proposal would be to withdraw this law, to complete it and to consider the fact that Croatia was, in addition to everything, the victim of aggression and that one of the parts of the war spoils were also the parent books that were stolen and taken to Serbia, that one part of the parent books had been destroyed, that the Republic of Croatia had held negotiations for 15 years on the return of parent books and it seems to me even to me that all the parent books of all our counties had not been returned. In view of all these serious objections that we have, we find it completely premature to make a decision that all these parent records are transferred exclusively into electronic form, it seems to me that you will cause new problems in other parts of the rights of either individuals or even groups, in particular that there will be major problems to prove the inheritance right on the basis of such collected data. And finally, what is an objection that can be put not only to this government but also to the former, the idea of giving up one part of the queen's leadership, is the idea of those who used to keep the data differently in their books, so because they didn't have the necessary data set, they are now trying to lose, i.e. poor work over time covered by the fact that the number of data and records needed and evidence in written form is being reduced. Namely, the office of the City of Zagreb, which deals with motherhood and which dealt with and arranged the queens, kept the data differently in the parent books than the rest of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why today is also very difficult in electronic form to pair these data because different data management cannot be solved by one law and by eradicating the need to keep records of certain data. In view of that, before you go out with this law, you should unify the leadership of queens throughout the country, and only then think that they are guided in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16753	Thank you, colleague Mlakar. Determining break... Let's hear more on behalf of the promoter and then we'll set a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16754	As for the technical performance, I was a representative in the last term and I know that the procedure in the Assembly takes a certain time to do so, we have estimated that January 1st is enough time to enter into force. If technically it is estimated that it is not then it will not enter January 1st, we will write in the final proposal that another date will come when we settle this and what you have warned. So I also said in the opening statement that 90% of the electronic enrolment was 87% until 15 December 2011. So, during your time as minister. So it's been done before. The colleagues involved in this work estimate that January 1st will be enough. If technically it is assessed that no law will enter into force once the technical conditions have been met. We'll see about that in the second reading. So, will it be 1.3, 1.7, or will we be from 1.1.2014? That will be, therefore, dependent on technical performance. And aware of everything you've said in this part of the information connection, so these are the problems that you and I both have found and that we're trying to solve. As regards non-constitution, so I will read the current law, Article 30(2): "If corrections are necessary in other national queens or in another copy of the national queens or in the residence records, the parent will inform the competent authorities of the state administration within 3 days of the day of correction." That's it now. So, the parent was still reporting other bodies. And of course, as for the questions that were, let's say, so nomotechnically, the Bureau of Law has passed this. However, as the first reading is certainly a matter of certainty if it is and a mistake it is not incorrigible or unforgivable. Therefore, I believe that even as the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure say, the first reading discusses the law in a way, and the final proposal has its other ways of discussing it. In the section for which I am competent, I am trying to make as many laws go into the first reading as possible to discuss the metrics, and then we will discuss the implementation and final proposal, so when the time is right. Of course, all your remarks will be taken into account. Some of us think for ourselves, and we are aware of some of these remarks. We estimated that when we put the law in the procedure that that time would be enough. If there is not enough in the second reading, the law will come into effect a little later to resolve it. So that's our basic idea. And those books won't go away. So it won't be possible anything, books will remain, new entries will go in electronic form. The number of copies in electronic form will be copied. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16755	Thank you. There's a colleague named Mlakar at your presentation. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16756	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, the minister might be simpler if he said you're right, we'll try to fix it, not listen to the experience from the previous call. Namely, I told you that as it says in your law he came into effect back in 1994. I don't know what the Legislative Office was doing, but this is what the law says. Perhaps it would be interesting for you to make specific instructions with this law as to how it must be read and how it must be understood. I wasn't talking about what you were going to write, I was talking about what you wrote. And just for the illustration, if you move the queens of this which you said would not disappear, and I was born in 1958 now you will lead it in electronic form, you will enter the fact that God one day did not give my death merely in electronic form, in my queen will never say that I died, and I believe that I am as mortal as most others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16757	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break until 3:00. The first is the club of Croatian Labourers – working parties and colleagues Nikola Vuljanić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16758	Honorable MPs and respected MPs, can we continue our work? We can. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16759	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister. This is designed as a technical law that should improve the functioning of matrixes, improve the way new technologies are applied in operation, make old beautiful customs from there on 18, 19, which centuries of bookkeeping subject to new conditions of operation. I don't think it's a historic moment like my predecessor said here, it won't be a historic moment, but it's an important moment. It is an important time for information technologies to start using at this level as well. I suppose the minister also said that the minister knows perfectly what level of information is now being done, which is still to be done, how many parent books need to be converted into digital form so that the whole system as such can function, while the whole system is not a digitalized thing, of course, you can't assume that 20% of the system will function in paper and 80% digitally. State queens born, dead and married are fundamental records not only of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but of all residents, so all those who were born here, married and so on. It's a basic database from which data would actually have to and could be shelled into other databases that are needed for the functioning of the state. What I am particularly interested in in this whole matrix information system is whether anyone is thinking about really making it easier for citizens to work so that citizens for their possible excerpts and other documents stemming from these matrixes don't have to address where they were born, where they got married, where I won't tell them well where they died they're not talking to anyone, but that this system works as a network, so if I live in Zagreb, and I was born in Sibenik that all of our documents that we will eventually need can be obtained where I live. If the matter is informed, there should be absolutely no problem with this principle of facilitating the lives of citizens, and that is why the law is being done, that is why the modern administration is doing so to bring this principle to life. So it's crucial that this database in some way and some protocol, of course, that protects the privacy of the data, will be connected to other databases, for example, with the list of voters. Now it's a new set of laws, a new set of electoral laws, and it started well with the Law on residence, that is, the beginning of the whole thing, if this base were directly connected to the list of voters one large part of the manipulations of the dead longer and the like, which occurs throughout the year in a natural order, people would die, if that data transfer was kind of automated in that database of voters would avoid a lot of problems that we've been facing all these 20 years. I think that such a relationship within the law should in some way make a commitment, a commitment to those who run the state queens. The parent is a civil servant, a responsible civil servant who makes one of the most important documents for the state, in fact, and his responsibility should not be reduced to a ridiculous figure from 500 to 1500 kuna, as up to 1000 kuna is a pardon, as the prescribed penalty for one who does not carry out administrative action within the prescribed deadlines... the law means the parent who does not lead properly and neatly and who harms the protection of data registered in the state nuts. I think these penalties are actually ridiculous, and at the very least, that the law should prescribe the strict responsibility of those officers if such a thing happens. I can't really think of a bigger mistake that a civil servant can make than this. It is directly related to living people and their fate and everyday functioning. We will support this law because it is good for things to be fixed, but the intensity that everything comes down to electronic form and only in electronic form may still need to be considered. Those historical books we all threaten give us some kind of security. The electronic media as much as we trust in them, as much as we put insurance, as much backup systems as we set up, they can collapse, they can be destroyed. The paper is, in that case, the one to judge and I think you should consider a way to at least keep some basic records in paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16760	Thank you, Your Honor. The next HDSSB club and respected representative Igor Češek. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to talk about the bill. We're moving on to the debate of individual representatives for 10 minutes. He is the first representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16761	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So I'd say this law is one of the proofs that we're going in step with the 20th century because it's about information that implies saving, efficiency, speed, so better information flow, better availability of information in all systems. Here is a colleague before me, a colleague of Vuljanić, but also some colleagues in their club debates have expressed their mistrust for new, in this case new technologies, and that is something I can't really blame them for because there is usually a certain amount of resistance. However, I do not view it as something necessarily bad, nor do I view it as a bad thing to switch to an exclusively electronic form of bookkeeping. So from what I understand, the same systems mean data storage will be used in electronic forms as it used to be physically applied in the parent books. So you've always had two copies of the parent book and these specimens have never been in the same place, so the law prescribed that they should not be physically kept at the same place, or that they must be in separate facilities precisely to avoid destruction through fires, floods, other natural disasters and the like. The same thing can be done to you with electronic data stored, so they are in electronic form but are also stored physically on different media for data storage. Whether these are hard drives, CDs, etc., it is now less important, but they also need to be kept separately and physically, but also on multiple media can be multiplied and you can have more backups. So that's where I get the advantage, first of all, that's what electronic media is, or media to store electronic data, a much smaller physical volume, in the sense that a single hard drive can get you thousands and thousands of parent books, which would have taken up more physical space before. So I don't see a particular problem here. What I would still take advantage of this debate is to say a few words about e-Government, e-Government, the e-Croatian general which I consider a very good project, precisely for reasons that I have mentioned earlier, so these are savings, efficiency, speed, availability, or transparency. So savings can be viewed at multiple levels, first of all if we're going to talk about storage space, so electronic data keepers take up physically much less places, they require much less maintenance, so you've had to remove the dust from time to time, you've had to be careful that this paper doesn't fall apart, etc., so the procedure normally applied with books, or written documents that are kept permanently. So the efficiency above all it will be over, relatively fast can be implemented since most, I would dare say almost all civil servants, have certain information literacy, and thus the parents, therefore, do not see problems. Accessibility and transparency are the same thing that matters, so I'm not just saying it to the parent books, I'm saying it in general. Accessibility to the end-user above all, therefore something that will allow us to hope in some foreseeable future that from the comfort of your home you can check all your documents. So here I'm specifically talking about the birth certificate, of course, that's some data that doesn't change, but in some foreseeable future you'll be able to believe that you can do that for your tax card and for all the other documents that you possibly need. And of course transparency, therefore, that any change can be registered, can be evident both from the competent institutions and from the users themselves, or from the one who makes the change. Here is an example we have done with a child’s allowance, or amendments to the Law on Children’s Compensation in which we have recently discussed in this home. So one very simple thing saved the budget about 2 million kuna, which is if there is no change in the economic status of the parents, so it does not have to be re-scheduled but to keep this automatism going. You will agree that this is about banal things, so envelopes, paper, postage stamps, inks for printers or printers and time spent by civil servants writing, or renewing such solutions. So it's saving itself at a higher level and that's something that I'm experiencing in this time of crisis as an extremely positive measure. The second thing, what I want to point out, what is extremely important is that the electronicisation of our administration, i.e. the electronic way of keeping the file, documents, and so on, will lead to the ultimate link between the essential institutions. First of all, I mean the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Administration, etc. So here we are talking about situations where the Ministry of Social Welfare can identify the fact that our income has increased and that you do not, accordingly, belong to the censorship of parents who have the right to a child's allowance. Or, for example, the Ministry of Finance can register that you have changed your residence, respectively, by calculating other taxes, by sending you a tax application solution to another address, etc., etc. And what brings us to the absurdity of the system that we've had, and I believe we've all met up with it in frequent clashes that we've had ourselves with, let's call it a conditional bureaucracy, so you've often come into a situation where you're in line, in front of the counters, waiting to be issued a confirmation that it's been confirmed that you've been issued a certificate. Of course, it all costs certain fees, it costs your time, it costs the time of that official who your request or inquiry processes etc. And especially what I was experiencing as absurd is that in different competitions, you had to add a birth certificate that was not more than 6 months old. So that's what I find funny at least because the data doesn't change. It will hardly change the name of the father or mother or the date of birth. The name may change, though, and we've been discussing a personal name, so, but then again, it's a different situation, and I think it's enough to take one birth certificate out after a change of name, not every six months. Also a marriage certificate, if there's no change, why should we always have to draw a new one. So I experience this law as well as keeping pace with the 20th century, or 20th century, with new technologies but also by introducing new regulations, newspapers in the Croatian administration that will therefore contribute to these values that I hold extremely important, which are savings, efficiency, speed, availability and transparency. That's why this law has my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16762	Thank you, Your Honor. The following has been signed up for debate by the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16763	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of this debate, I would like to say that I will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the First Reading Law, and because I believe that this law brings us the necessary modernization of the work of state-owned matriarchs, but builds on certain progressive solutions that raise the standard of human rights, and the status rights of individuals and individuals in Croatia. I particularly welcome, in my opinion, the key change, which is that the last condition, not all changes that have occurred in the queen, is shown in the extracts from the queen. This will make life much easier for many people in the Republic of Croatia who have changed their name for different reasons, but will, in particular, facilitate the life of a vulnerable and minority group of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, which are trans-born persons, persons born in one sex and their birth identity is different from that sex. And these people, unfortunately, live in hell today in the 21st century of 2012. What I consider to be a lack of this law and I hope that by the second reading it will change and improve is that this Law does not define who has the right to change gender enrolment in the queen. According to a valid guideline that stems from the applicable law for such a change, medical documentation is necessary, but that documentation that proves that a person has physically made a change, a gender change operation and I would like to say that such a provision is in stark contrast with modern solutions and a whole series of international documents that regulate human rights. So here's why I'm appealing to you, to the Ministry of Administration that until the second reading, it still corrects this law in that part, that is to say that it is, of course, the necessary documentation to prove that the person is trans-born, or that he lives in another birth identity, but here I want to point out that the mass of trans-born persons never makes a physical change throughout his life, the operation of gender change, but their entire life lives in another birth identity, under hormonal treatments, live truly in another identity, and so far, that is not regulated by us at all. Of course I also appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make a big step in that part. This is not even an area that your ministry handles but is more likely in the domain of the Ministry of Health. But it would really be necessary to pass either a law or a regulation defining standards of care for trans-born persons in order to make life easier for such persons in the Republic of Croatia. If it were not for the hire in this case, I would like to give an example of a minor from Croatia who lives from his third grade in full meaning of the birth identity that is different from the sex in which that person was born. And which now that she is more than 16 years old when she is issued documents, regardless of what she is living in another generation, will receive documents that will say that it is a second-generation person that we do not even have to speak about what cataclysms will cause that person in her everyday life. And so I appeal to you to show a little humanity in that part, a progressive way of thinking, and to install in this law that the documentation that proves this must not be medical documentation which says that the person has also done a specific physical sex change operation, but that it is a belief by psychiatrists or psychologists that this person lives in another birth identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16764	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The following has been reported for a debate of 10 minutes by a respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16765	... to question the way in which the parent books are kept. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] I believe that, as in the case of other registers that we have in the Republic of Croatia, the transition from the manually guided is to be honest, manually guided, because things are recorded by hand in electronic-led books cannot in any way damage the data. We won't lose the data, we won't throw away the old books, we won't burn them. They'll stay here. They will be available, but because we have entered the data from them into an electronicized book, i.e. because we enter new data electronically they will be faster entered and made easier available. We won't have to wait some time and days to find them. Furthermore, such a way of keeping books as well as these data provided for in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State womb Act is in no way contrary to international conventions. For example, in the Vienna Convention of 8 September 1976, it is clear that the extracts will be prepared and produced according to the information on how they are kept in a particular parent book, article 2 of the Convention. It's all clear. The convention is only prescribed how they will be entered into the form, which will mark the pattern, which will mark the day, month and year of birth, in which order, in which way, in order to mark the sex, so that someone who receives a birth certificate from Croatia, for example, in Turkey, knows what he has ahead of him. But there's no word on what data we have in the nuts. In fact, we have exactly all the information mentioned in the convention. So there's no disagreement here. And finally, I won't be long because my colleagues said a lot before me, but I have to join what my dear colleague Holly was talking about. In my opinion, this law represents a huge civilization step in matters of the right of transgender persons. However, I think you should consider exactly what your distinguished colleague Holly was saying. Someone doesn't have to reach for a gender-change operation to recognize his birth certificate change. It is an operation that is complicated, preceding a long process, which is painful and which is often an uncertain outcome. We can't call it a person living in another body, making him go through such a painful procedure so she can get a piece of paper that says her true birth. Everything else here is about an excellent law that should certainly be supported and I join my club of MPs and I say that I will support him in the first and I believe in this little change and in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16766	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a report of a replica of your exposure. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I was going to ask a fellow coat of arms without big polemics about it, and here's the replica, and I'm glad he knows what I'm going to say, so we'll be able to talk about it better. In fact, I only wanted one thing to say in all the exhibitions that people wouldn't have misunderstood this whole debate between their colleagues, and so far, the queens were being led in electronic form. It's nothing new compared to the situation so far, except for the fact that no more parent books will be kept in paper form. But the queens are also so far driven in electronic form.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16768	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16769	Of course, there have been some changes, I agree. The law prescribed that the queen should be kept in two separate books of which the basic book must be in manual guided form, and another book could be kept in electronic form. In the beginning, this meant that all the home offices had two books, one hand-run, the other also hand-run. Of course, they were not to be kept under the same roof. With the information process, we have come to the conclusion that the vast majority of these other books are called so they lead in electronic form. However, today is 2012. I believe that a hand-run book as beautiful as it is, as interesting as it is, as much as it represents the historical institution of the Croatian people, we can leave it to the archives and history, and choose to run the book exclusively by electronic means, which, as colleague Hajdukovic told us nicely, guarantees that the data will not be lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16770	Thank you, Your Honor. For the next 10 minutes and respected representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16771	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a law, on behalf of the club, a colleague of the Mlakar was already talking about why he was in this form, and he's almost not fit to discuss it yet, but here I think we should take advantage of the opportunity to read first, that the intensity of this law is, of course, modernized, informing state queens beyond what has been achieved in that area, so informing, and that the time has come for us to translate the entire books into digital form. However, we must be careful not to make amendments to the law worse than in the current law. I certainly welcome the fact, and this is what my colleague Vuljanic was talking about, that he would like every citizen to take the data out of the queen anywhere in Croatia no matter where they are registered. Here, I welcome that provision, in the amended article 42, stands the provision to extract and confirm from the national queens a parent who has received a request from the party regardless of the place of entry in the national queens. But I hope it will be that way by 1.01.2013. And what Col. Mlakar said was that today, extracts and queens are taken in electronic form and extracts are obtained in electronic form from the territory of Croatia, but where. Where money can do that, where money doesn't have it. I was recently in the office in Zagreb, so I asked when the whole of Croatia would be networked, and then they answered me like this because for my child who was born in Zagreb from Zadar, I have to come here for an extract. But then they told me that we in Zagreb can give you a extract from all over Croatia because we are networked, but those from Dubrovnik, Zadar, etc. They cannot give you an excerpt for a person born in Zagreb because there is not yet, there was no money for it, so they are not networked. Here I hope that by 1.01.2013 everything will be networked. In doing so, I ask the Minister and the Ministry not to forget those people who live in remote places on land, but mostly on islands. How this electronic enrolment and what it would look like on remote islands where the parent came to the home office once a month and he was writing something in those books and giving copies from that old birth certificate that, for example, on Silba or on Iž, it would work with an electronic enrolment, I don't know. But please keep an eye on it because, as you know, the islands have been lost since recently and without the ability to verify signatures because the mother can no longer verify the signature. The Ministry of Justice has done nothing, and here we will try to arrange it, to bind public notebooks to which the state's work has been transferred that they must necessarily be organised in a way that has been kept on those islands, and not that old people have to travel to the centres, to Split, Zadar or I don't know where or pay huge costs to the public notebook to get to that island to verify the signature. It's the kickings gone so here's what seems to me to be threatening some danger perhaps in this information that then simply says we don't have a system, we don't have computers on Silba for example, and if you need a extract you'll have to go to Zadar. I put that on my soul. I would also like to comment on Article 2 amending Article 5, which says that the national queens are being operated in electronic form, etc. It shall be mandatory to store on the information medium, but then it shall say in paragraph 4. that, exceptionally of that paragraph, paragraph 2 shall not apply to the management of the queen married in diplomatic missions, etc. I'm linking it to the transitional provisions. I warn you that in the transitional provisions, it says that the queens of the married who are enrolled in these marriages will be married, etc. until 31.12. store in the competent office in Zagreb which will issue those certificates. I ask what is then after 31.12.j. if all this takes effect electronically for Croatia will continue to be entered in consular and diplomatic representations in non-electronic form. What's gonna happen to that and who's gonna keep it? Likewise, in Article 4, you deleted the provisions on keeping books, but I am asking whether all books will be copied in electronic form and where the provisions are. You don't have it now, the law has run out of provisions to keep and where those books will be, you will be left with only a provision to keep enrollments older than 100 years in the state archives. But what about existing books that are not yet 100 years old? It may not be transmitted into electronic form and in general where it will end, it should be resolved, because this way it will remain unregulated, as well as the issue of books in diplomatic and consular offices for which it must be told where it will be kept and how it will be managed. One more thing. In the amended Article 9, in point D, where you list ex post records and notes, the number of citizens and personal identification numbers stands under number 1. I don't know what the citizens' home number is, if it exists I don't know it has it, so I have a personal identification number and I don't know that citizens have anything else besides that. If you're referring to ex-JMBG then please don't call JMBG in law, because it's what banks do to us today when we want to open up, embarrassingly, and banks when you want to open a current account then ask you JMBG. When a citizen says I have an OIB, we don't need JMBG, go home and bring JMBG. So nobody did, the banks did, the bank might not have any red socks today, so I won't give you a current bill, it's her right, but it's not decent to the state, I'd say. The second thing that I think is that this law should harmonize the terminology with this law that we previously discussed, which is the Law on the Change of Personal Name. So when this law uses a personal name, which consists of a name and a last name, then it would be good for us to also use a personal name in this law, not a last name. And one more thing about criminal provisions, they're not logical, intended criminal provisions. We can doubt whether they are too large, too small, as fellow Vuljanic pointed out that they are really quite low for such, let's say negligent or unintentional queen. But it certainly doesn't make sense that a criminal offence will be punished by a legal person up to 1,500 kuna if she didn't report a person responsible in a legal person who didn't report a change, so the fact that a child is born, death and a change of name. She will be punished with 1500 kuna but the parent who did not do so, who did not sign up, who runs the queens, does not lead the queens properly and neatly or harm data protection, will be punished with 1000 kuna. So less than someone in a legal person who doesn't report a change and I don't see logic there. I also warn of this amendment in Article 12 where paragraph 3 is deleted, which speaks of hospitals having to report a dead child, the birth of a dead child, so within 24 hours of birth. The previous law contained a provision if the deadline falls on a day other than the office day, then that deadline is extended until the first day of work. Probably thinking that hospitals, or maternity homes work from 0 to 24 every day, and public administration offices, of course, don't. Now, what's under that should be defined, what's considered under the application, is that a deadline within which the application is sent or it has to arrive, so it should do so, in particular for the purpose of criminal provisions, be more clearly encrypted. [[Intruder president: Time of colleague.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16772	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Next up for debate, Damir Rimac, a respected representative, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16773	Thank you. Introductoryly, I'm going to say that I'm going to support the law with a few suggestions and an apparition of the problem on the ground itself. I noticed, for example, that people whose name or last name, or name and last name, consist of several words in legal traffic serve the same in different ways. In fact, some people have a line between several words and others do not. Reading still in force the Law on State wombs or draft laws as well as a valid guidance for the implementation of the Law on State wombs and enrolment in adoption of the queen of the born. I did not find any information on the way extracts and certificates are issued to persons whose personal name consists of more than one word. I'm referring to the problem of the interpunctual character between two last names. I believe that a single position should be taken on this issue, and since the Ministry of Administration is working on an analysis and an evaluation of the rules so far governing how to keep records on the personal status of citizens, I suggest that the instructions on how to deal with the cartoon should also be included in some of the points of this new guideline for the implementation of the State Queens Act. I will highlight an example of a fellow citizen from Vinkovec, in which some situations that are not logical could be avoided. For example. Mr. Petar Pavlovic Juric has no birth certificate between two last names, and in the ID card issued by the police administration there is this cartoon. So, what's right? Example number two. The State Queens Act stipulated that the registration of facts of the birth of marriages and deaths of Croatian citizens from abroad is carried out on the basis of an excerpt from the state queen of the foreign body. I am personally interested in the way in which the name of a particular fact has been entered into the national queen. For example. The groom and bride made a marriage in Vienna, Austria, is it proper to enroll Wien or Wien or Vienna in respect of what? English, German or Croatian. Such examples, unfortunately, are many. Let's say parents come to the competent home office to register the fact that their child was born in Djakova, Kosovo, do we respect Albanian language and enroll Djakov or enroll Djakovica? It's not regulated. On this subject, I have found no clarification in the applicable law on state queens, nor in the new and neither in the sublegal acts governing its implementation, so I appeal to the completion of them. Example three, Article 54. Family law requires that a child’s father be considered a mother’s husband if a child is born during a marriage or for 300 days from the end of marriage. In the case of a disputed paternity, the parent shall enter in the section a subsequent entry and notes a note of the child's mother born out of which it appears that the person who was enrolled as a father did not, and on the basis of the judicial judgment of the competent court. In such cases, it is unfortunately very often the divorce of marriages, so mothers either return to their maiden name or very often come from the recognition of paternity by the father of course and the change of the child’s last name. I also appeal that this problem is somehow tried to regulate itself because it will help a large number of home offices and matrimonials that come in very big trouble when a family member who feels hurt or a mother or father or even that child comes in. Example 4, the Croatian Parliament passed the County Law on the basis of which the island municipality area had acquired, for example. city status in Vukovar-Srijem County. The Regulation amending and supplementing the Internal Design Regulation of the Office of State Administration in Countys for the performance of operations from the Department of State Administration in Vukovar-Srijem County outside the office headquarters of the existing premises in Vinkovci, Županja, Ilocka is setting up a new exposition in the Island. And now you have the absurdity that the facility in the Island in charge of the Municipality of Germany and Privlak and at the same time according to the regulation adopted by the Government, a regulation on the areas of the parent offices you have that the Mother Office in Vinkovci runs state queens for the home areas of Vinkovci, Privlaka, Mirkovci and Rokovci. You have an absurd situation that the following two sublegal acts that are in collegiate, according to the regulations according to the amendments and additions to the Internal Design Regulation are established in the Office of the Island of the City of Otok, the Municipality of Germany and Privlak, and on the other hand you have a regulation on the areas of the parent offices according to which Privlaka is the parent area belonging to the parent office in Vinkovci. So, this government has adopted a new government has also adopted a new regulation that continues to operate in Vinkovci, Zupanja, Ilock and the Island to carry out operations from the department of state administration outside the office headquarters. I find it absolutely unacceptable to, for example. one and the same party from Privlaka for the application of the marriage intention must make an application in Vinkovci and must go to the Island for the opening of the crafts. Example 5, according to the County Law, Šidski Banovci belongs to the German Municipality. In the Law on districts of towns and municipalities, Šidski Banovci is mentioned as Banovci. Currently, the Law on County of Cities and Municipalities is in force, in which according to the regulation on the areas of the home offices, the German authorities run state nuts for the home areas of the Germans, Djeletovci, Šidski Banovci and Lipovac, so in a specific case again, the conflict of applicable rules has not changed the name of the town of Šidski Banovci in Banovci in Banovac. For this reason, I am interested in the way in which extracts and confirmations from the state queens are issued for those facts of the birth of marriages or deaths that occurred in places that changed their name in the meantime? Again, I stress that by studying regulations that regulate the matter of the personal condition of the citizens, I have found nowhere to find information about this and I urge that, until the second reading, sublegal acts or this be incorporated into the law and actually try to correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16774	Thank you, too. A replica of respected representatives of Anne Lovrin has been reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16775	Thank you very much. So here you see, you have now highlighted an example of the difficulty in applying a personal name and last name when it consists of several words and a problem exists already when it consists of only two words given the interpretation or not a cartoon. We discussed the Law on Personal Name this morning and then we spoke and pointed to a problem that would arise when that personal name had more than two words that could be far more and therefore we pointed out that the law should allow for more words in a personal name but that the citizen was obliged to declare with which of these words would be served in legal traffic. Of course, the Proposer disagrees with this, and he suggests that this law amend Article 13 where it has so far been said that if the name consists of more than one word that parents are obliged to give the parent a statement that the words will be used in legal traffic, and these amendments are proposed not to be obliged than to comply with the Personal Name Act, which I hold is not good because now the problem is in two words, and you can imagine what kind of problem will occur when there are 8 words in a personal name, and in legal traffic will not be known which of these will be served. And I really don't understand what other would be the form of legal use, not a personal identification document, and that's a personal ID card that only fit two or three words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16776	Thank you very much. And finally a respected representative of Davorin's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16777	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I spoke on behalf of the club, but I answered because we couldn't solve some things because of the time constraints. Unfortunately, the minister had to leave so this won't be any personal replica but what he said wrongly when he responded to our remarks that we made to this text. So these changes and additions are one example of the sad domination of information over the law. So then and when we try to make comments from the point of view that perhaps they are not the happiest solutions that are foreseen by the law, it is fairly easy to understand or want to go beyond that with reasons that no one can satisfy. The fact that the Legislative Office saw this law doesn't say anything to anyone that this law is fine. I also appeal to colleagues in a position who are all-out in favour of this law that they must understand that the law which contains conflicting provisions on entry into force must take that into account and point out to the applicant such problems because this will result in difficulties that we do not need. But I'd like to stay at one point that I spoke on behalf of the club, which was answered by the minister, I don't think he understood what was going on. In fact, we said that this law, in our opinion, was also questionable from the point of view of constitutionality. In fact, we said Article 37. The Constitution particularly protects the personal data of citizens, so that only the law can prescribe how they are used and that there is even a specific way to control those who have the personal data of citizens. We therefore hold that Article 21 of these proposed amendments and the addition of the law amending Article 30, which reads: if corrections are necessary in other national nuts, which is normal because these are official records or in other citizen records, the parent will immediately inform the competent authorities who keep those records. The minister, explaining the article, said it was also in the law so far and called for the provisions of Article 30 of the law, but I don't think he understood what difference there was in the current proposal from what was once regulated by the law. In fact, there has been an obligation before for the queen to report other records, but only one other record, and that was the official residence record which is now proposed to be called a permanent residence in the future although we suspect the best solution. So we are objecting to the fact, and I am going to characterise that it may be clearer for everyone, as the provisions of this article of amendments and the addition of the law are streamlining the obligation of the parent to provide data on the change of personal data, for example in the company that keeps official records of the presence at work or to tell the Croatian Parliament about our presence. Given the limitations that exist in the laws on how and for what purpose personal data of citizens can be used, we believe that it is much simpler to accept our well-intentioned criticism or the suggestion that this is not how it can be prescribed to civil servants but that they are eventually obliged to report on changes in the registrations of only those official records whose data depend on the parent books, and not on all possible records where the personal data of citizens is kept, because that de facto means that they will be able to easily abuse any of us's personal data in the far line. And another thing that I think is worth saying because some colleagues in their debate said, so maybe I'll throw a little more light on that subject, it's not true that the funds were always a problem about how data is exchanged. Something else happened in Croatia, and that is the fact about whether you can extract from the Mother born if you were born in Zagreb to raise it in Dubrovnik or why you can't raise it. You can't pick it up just because the only city in Zagreb and some towns of Zagreb County have a different system of electronic data processing, which, unfortunately, is here and after 15 years as it is used is not compatible with the system used in other parts of Croatia. And if you are very simply born in Osijek you can take a copy of the queen born in Dubrovnik, but if you were lucky or unhappy to be born in Zagreb you will not be able to do so. Because of this and because of the fact that the City of Zagreb was thus a state in the country and used some other solutions, computer, software solutions that are different and different from the rest of Croatia, it is not yet possible to request documents from the queen anywhere in Croatia that you can get them. I therefore believe that in addition to these remarks of serious, very serious remarks that we had on this law, the Proposer should consider that in this law, who, under what conditions and how to keep this electronic record of the queens, has proved to be a very big problem so far and it was de facto impossible to bring a unique system for the whole country. So it's about not having a problem with the lack of funds, I'd say it was more of a problem with the lack of will to use one single electronic data processing system throughout the country. I therefore propose, at the end and finally, to the Proposer and given these problems that we have had, when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Queens, that this law be more detailed on how and in which way and who will keep the electronic records. What he writes about state administration offices doesn't seem precise enough and clearly defined how this job is going to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16778	Thank you, too. We've registered three replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16779	Your Honor. Comrade Mlakar, you are in your debate if I have written correctly mentioning the domination of information over the law, quote. I'm correcting, it's actually incorrect because the data is digitized because we're in the 21st century. It's something that's perfectly normal, it's world trends. On the other hand, you pointed to the incompatibility of the information system because they are not curatorized as uniform IT programs. You also mentioned a well-intentioned criticism and suggestion that you actually supplement and comment on the bill. Namely, the Ministry of Administration, led by Minister Bauk, is only at the stage when the screening of all existing legal acts with an assessment of the current regulations that regulate this matter, but I am interested in why the previous Government's past or to paraphrasise the issue, why you as a former minister did absolutely nothing in that sense and why you did not actually carry out the information you are now calling on. Because the fact is that programs are being distributed through various private companies, the east of Croatia has received one bid, the west of Croatia has received another offer, the Adriatic has received a third. So responsibility lies with the former government and you as a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16780	Thank you, too. Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16781	Thank you very much. As incorrect as it may be for you to perform a fellow Roman on a personal level, I will be grateful for your question, and I will be very happy to answer your questions, and that you have made available some information that is incorrect, and you are building your views on it. It'll one day prove how wrong you were. There are only two companies dealing with information processing and parent books. One company that used to do this for the city of Zagreb, and I will not name the companies so that it will not be misunderstood for the whole country. The second who worked for the whole country was according to all of its offers which were otherwise announced to you and contracts concluded with them on the websites was 7 times cheaper than the one that worked for the city of Zagreb. And because there was a board in the city services to take over the solutions, the more modern solutions that were valid for the whole country to date have not been resolved. And as far as I'm concerned, you've got to get to the papers first, and eventually, if you want to and talk to the authorities, so you'll see how far we've come.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16782	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16783	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here you are, colleague Mlakar, you've made it quite clear to Rome how and why this incompatibility has taken place. But I guess the minister knows it today, and I doubt it more after I heard this because I thought it was a matter of funds. But now I know for certain that this law will not be possible, because it explains that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funds in the state budget. Then I really don't know how these information systems of Zagreb and all the rest of Croatia will be harmonised, and this law writes and promises that when it enters into force, when extracts and certificates from the national queens will be issued by a parent regardless of the place of entry in all places in the Republic of Croatia. I doubt it will be possible until 1.1.2013 if it is really about this and without a single kuna to invest in this if it is about this incompatibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16784	Thank you very much. And the answer to the line, the esteemed representative of Davorin's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16785	Thank you very much. Comrade Lovrin, you're absolutely right. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that due to the interest of certain companies it will be very difficult to resolve this issue by the end of the year, you're absolutely right that there has not always been a question of funds to apply something. There was a conflict between modernity and so conditionally speaking of outdated solutions of informational which simply could not be solved because the city of Zagreb in some way using its special position did not want to take the solutions that were worth the rest of Croatia. And that's why today we don't have the ability to exchange documents in that network. All others, unlike what a fellow Roman said, all others in the entire country have a unique system and can exchange data without any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16786	Thank you very much. We thus exhausted the list of registered representatives for the debate for 10 minutes. Is he a respected deputy minister? Yes, go ahead. Zoran Piculjan, the Honorable Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16787	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the debate on this, the amendments and additions to the State Queens Act in fact shows that matter that seems to be very interesting in fact is very vital and necessary to address those rights of citizens who are everyday, who are lifelike, who have been following them all their lives. What seems to us to be the main motto and the main purpose of this law, these amendments are to simplify the procedure and that it is affected by the simplification of the management of the national queens that this law has been done. All these remarks you have made seem to us to go and experience them truly well-intentioned, to contribute to resolution, to better legal solution and to better real state of affairs related to this matter. As a result, we will carefully examine between the two readings all the comments made in today’s debate. We think there are a lot of those who can, who can improve this law that we don't really think is legally so unspoken. We think that it is a legally correct article, which will include everything we think is good and what is good and then the law can live. What is a fundamental question is really a question that we have put in place, which is the beginning of the application of this law as of 1 January 2013. We think it is possible to ensure, but the concerns shown here show us in fact that we will, between the two readings, come with a solution that is either here or what will really allow in every part of the Croatian state that the print can be obtained no matter where the request is submitted. What it is, it means that the norm that is here is given that it is practically possible and can be realized. That's what you should say honestly. What they can individually maybe two, three sentences related to each, to the MPs... in response to a colleague, Vuljanić, a representative of Vuljanić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is, I think it's through discussion and open question whether it's in addition to electronic and paper management. I think backups are what ensures exactly the quality and preservation of data, and that dual management is no longer modern or necessary. The basic file will continue to be kept in paper form means birth, death, judgment, all that remains. Mrs. Holly, the objection regarding medical or other documentation to be more precise and the question seems to us that it was not the subject of this law and that it was not the subject of this law without us being able to go before another reading without solving with the Ministry of Health and other competent authorities that the parent has a completely clean situation through the opinion of the profession when and before him has a trans-born person who wants to register. We'll settle that until the second reading. At Mr. Hajdukovic's, another one, all this is upgraded. In addition, what seems to me, everything that has been said before by other representatives, but also to us, one motto and of this electronic-form intervention are actually unnecessary and impossible to keep such a rich, huge archive written in the rooms of state bodies. Mr. Grbin and we have not found ourselves that we really believe that there is no conflict with international law, with the 1976 Convention, everything from the 1960s and '70s needs to be interpreted alive, they should be interpreted as having live law introduced into Croatian legislation, and that there is no conflict here and that we have well incorporated these solutions into Croatian legislation and that there is no conflict with international law. As for Mrs. Lovrin, the birth number is still used by law, there are many objections that are acceptable, about the unique birth number, and that's what we are, practically what we couldn't avoid. With Mr. Rimce, what seems to be worth listening to is that in a series not only of this matter covered by the Ministry of Administration but also the Ministry of the Interior will need to go with sublegal acts in order to facilitate the implementation of this law. In the case of a colleague of the Mlakar, a representative of the Mlakar, what we consider to be about Article 37. The Constitution and the dispute regarding Article 21 of the Law we believe that it is not constitutional in this section, but we can agree that it is not written precisely enough that it should be written more precisely before the second reading. Which certainly doesn't provide him... and what's been stopped is but it's not accurate to the end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About the transitional norms, I think it was an observation why didn't we suspend them? Because unfortunately, they are part of such a character that they did not fall into transitional norms at all and that they must remain in force. Whether in the transitional regime or between the two readings we must examine it, but in any case they are the right to remain, a solution that must remain in the new law and apply. And it seems to me that it's exhausted, maybe it wasn't necessary to explain so much, but it seems to me that for another reading, we will have a law that will be and because of these contributions of yours we will be better and the beginning of its application must be normative and it must really work in this part. We'll try and secure it. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16788	We love you, too. We've exhausted the lists of all those reported for discussion on this bill. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State wombs, first reading, PZ No. 165. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Queens Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please raise your hand so we can state who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 91 for, 29 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16791	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This final draft of the law we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament is in the beginning of July discussing the issue of obtaining an academic degree of doctoral science, i.e. the doctorate of science in such a way that only a scientific field is listed at the academic stage of science and, if so provided for by the general act of the university and the field, which will allow the scope of scientific action to doctors and doctors of science and to facilitate their access to the labour market. It is also proposed to define more clearly the equalisation of acquired names of persons who have completed their studies according to previously applicable regulations and to regulate the proper protection of acquired rights for persons who have been university or professional studies completed in accordance with earlier applicable regulations. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me perhaps a slightly simpler dictionary to describe in fact what these amendments and additions are about. In fact, by this law, if you accept it, we are correcting the injustice against the people who, before they were sick, so to speak, have completed a professional undergraduate study of 4 years and have acquired a formerly high professional training, which can, according to the current name of a professional first-grader, i.e. a professional first-rate student, who is acquired through the completion of the first level of higher education, and not others, although they retain the rights stemming from the former high level of expertise. We therefore propose to allow those persons to use the professional title professional specialist, i.e. professional specialist who is relevant to the second level of higher education. Also, in accordance with the discussion in the first reading and here in the Croatian Parliament and at the cabinet session and in general in relation to the text that was here in the first reading, we suggest that persons who have completed a professional post-graduate studies outside the university retain the professional name of the magistrate – a short one is Mr. and please do not mix it with the name of the Bologna master who has a shortcut mag. which is actually a calling, not an academic title that goes before the name. So, the old post-graduate professional magistrate, Mr., that they are not really equated with anything since such a type of study, so a postgraduate vocational study outside the university is no longer conducted in Croatia, nor can it be carried out in Croatia under the applicable rules because postgraduate studies are reserved for the university and some new possible equalisation would cause some new injustices. And lastly, in practice, there is often a question of studies set up according to previously applicable regulations that are no longer being implemented in Croatia, so they do not have a legal successor, or are being carried out, but are not the same species. For example, it is a case of colleagues and colleagues with graduate teachers, graduate criminals and others who studied professional four-year VSS studies prior to the hospital, and now it is a 5-year master's study. We propose that the final decision on how professional names acquired by such studies be compared and evaluated in accordance with the Bologna system in view of the specificities of each individual study programme, so that it is left to the University, or its legal successor, by respecting the principle of university autonomy, but with the legally binding opinion of the National Council responsible for higher education, which as you know and elects the Croatian Assembly and which corresponds to the Croatian Assembly for its work. And in the end perhaps only two sentences, all the remarks made on this bill in the Croatian Parliament during the first reading we accepted. If there is anything else that you think should be accepted which can improve the text of the law in this final proposal we are also inclined to accept. So all the boredom that's been embedded in this second reading text. To implement the law itself, there is no need for any additional financial resources or any financial means as such, and it seems to us that although the law is small, it actually solves major injustices. And that those many teachers who have fought completely justifiably for not being first-raters but having a higher level of higher education will finally actually come to their own by passing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16792	Thank you very much Maria Lugarić, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. We're opening, no. Do the workers want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate, a debate on the club councils. The Education Committee, it's good to hear about the Education Committee. Here you go. We return to the reports of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16793	Good afternoon, everyone. So, as the committee responsible, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture at its session held on 27 September, we considered the proposal immediately and said that it was unanimous to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees be adopted. As we heard from the proposal, all the remarks that occurred during the debate on the proposed law, where the most talk was also about these calls on teachers and some studies that no longer exist. It is also noted that for a doctor of science it is necessary to specify only the field, however, that a certain act of the university may also specify a branch. So to say once again, we unanimously proposed to the Parliament to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16794	Thank you, too. He was a respected representative of Walter Boluncic, president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the first is the SDP club and the respected representative of Domagoj Hajduković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16795	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The transfer of Croatia's higher education system to the Bologna education system also gave rise to the need for the specification of the titles of certain levels of education. The transition of the Republic of Croatia to the Bologna education system was also a reflection of Croatia's efforts towards the European Union and European standards in higher education. The harmonisation of Croatian and European standards opens up a larger labour market and the possibility of easier international cooperation, exchange of students and the approximation of world educational and scientific standards. It should also be pointed out that academic and professional names should be adapted to make the labour market more efficient in particular in the terms of the common market of the European Union. At the very beginning, I would also point out that the initiative for these amendments and additions to the laws that are already here in front of us in the second reading came from the academic community itself. In fact, following the situation at our higher universities has created the need for this issue to be further regulated, i.e. some parts and changes and complements. The application of this law eliminates the inequality that has arisen between students who have completed their studies, within the same legal framework but otherwise defined before the adoption of laws and a new Bologna study system and those students who have completed them according to the new, therefore the Bologna rules. For example, persons who, according to earlier regulations, have completed a professional undergraduate study for 4 years and have been assigned a high professional preparation, so VSS has the title of professional first grader despite students of a university undergraduate study who have completed their studies at the same duration obtaining the title of master, specific for the second level of higher education. In this way, in fact, we have ranked people who have acquired high professional training at a lower level, i.e. in the first degree, and not in the second stage of higher education. So, ironically, both groups have a VSS that belongs to a second level of higher education, and a professional undergraduate study is assigned a title intended for the first level of higher education. For this reason, it was necessary to correct this injustice and to amend the legislation, and to even the titles with the degree of education and in the Bologna system. It is definitely possible for everyone with a certain level of education to acquire their well-deserved rights, which is particularly important for their performance on the labour market. Also, persons who have completed their studies under other rules or studies that no longer exist in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. studies conducted by institutions that have no legal successor in the Republic of Croatia or are not being carried out, or are, excused or carried out but are not the same type, are allowed to equalise new academic names. An example of this problem has already been cited by the deputy minister, but allow me a few more words about her. So, an example of this problem is the professional titles of graduate teachers or graduate criminals. According to this legislative proposal, therefore, respecting the principle of, above all, university autonomy, the decision to address this issue is left to the legal successor or high school, with the legally binding opinion of the National Council responsible for the area of higher education. We also consider this good because we believe that people who have completed their studies have the right to have their knowledge, that is, titles and values in the new Bologna process. In the event of completion of a post-graduate university study that lasts for at least 3 years, the person acquires the academic degree of doctor of science, or doctor of art. With reference to the scientific or artistic field and provided for in the general act of the University and the fields, which shall specify the area of scientific and artistic work. It also facilitates access to the labour market and enables interdisciplinary scientific, or artistic work. Thus, the area of science or art is not limited only to the branch, but only the scientific, or artistic area is listed, and in certain cases the field, depending on the general act that the university brings. We believe that this is also particularly important, since the doctor of science is increasingly on the market, so they do not necessarily remain within the system of universities and scientific institutions, but are often present on the labour market, and these regulations improve their approach and actually facilitate their access to the labour market, i.e. the choice of employers in the employment relationship of the person with this professional arrangement. What I would particularly point out as a positive shift since the first reading of this law is to give up equating expert studies at universities with the academic degree of programmes performed at universities. Similarly, this law allows higher universities to issue until the entry into force of this law to persons who request this confirmation of the equalisation of professional and academic names without any compensation. So that ensures that a person does not have to pay twice the equalization of the same previously acquired name. And in conclusion, this legislative proposal is of a technical nature and corrects many of the illogicalities and injustices created by the application of the past law. Due to the removal of all of the above-mentioned shortcomings in the past law, as well as the shifts given the first reading of the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16796	Thank you, Your Honor. The Club of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Nikola Vuljanić is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16797	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As a colleague said, this is a technical law in terms of correcting injustice, so it's not quite technical then it's both political, and in terms of equating with some other regulations. Essential changes in higher education are in no way implemented in Croatia, and this is very difficult for us whenever we try to run something that faces desperate resistance, regardless of whether it tries to move towards social democratic change or towards more conservative changes, the resistance of the academic community is always very large. The resistance most often stems from a lack of courage to look in the mirror and a lack of will to throw some acquired privileges. Organizational changes are going but very hard, very hard, we've been trying to make united universities for 15 years now, 20 years none of them have been made, even in that kind of initial basic sense of united all investments... procurement that would really be useful. We've never been able to do that. But changes in the name and name of institutions, changes in titles are going well, we're doing it great, we're doing it without any problem, and people who finished studying five years ago have one set of professional and academic names, those in front of 10 others, in front of 15 others, we who finished 50 have a completely fifth system and it's very difficult to manage. People called each other codfish and accessionists, non-accessaries, non-accessors, non-accessors, etc. I mean, we're dealing with ephemerals. These ephemerals need to be made, they need to be done, they need to be set up. They're not something that can be bypassed, but they're definitely nothing essential in higher education. This final text of the law well detailes the legal follow-up method for the issue of diplomas and other documents. One study is shut down so who will inherit it, if no one, which then, is beautifully detailed in the law and we need it because every day institutions are founded even in strange ways by selling a license. A journalistic house founded something called a media university. I don't know how she managed to get the name of a university in her license because universities are kind of different, but it's started. It didn't work out in one town, they founded a daughter company, they transferred her daughter's rights to the company, and they sold her daughter for a few million kunas to a local self-government. And now that study under that new name and under the new boss will work somewhere else, I believe it will not, as it did not work in Split either. But in that study, I don't know. 15, 20 if students and their diplomas, their papers will need to be inherited and something to do with them, and so it is good that it stands in the law in which it is done. Article 2 corrected the injustice that existed in the past text of the law. Two people with a four - year study at the university, the second in a high school in a new system of names received not different names but different degrees. So one is treated if you graduated from college once given, today you can get confirmation that you're a master of your profession, and the one who graduated from high school the same four-year-old got the title of first grader, so let's say at a higher school level, which, of course, was an injustice, the law corrects it and corrects it well. In particular it shall be noted in Article 4 that all those certificates concerning the transfer from the system to the system shall be issued without charge. That wasn't the case until now. These certificates have been charged somewhere even very expensive, and that's something that's really crazy. These people didn't change the system that they needed confirmation that now they're something else under the new system. The state was changing that system, they were state institutions, and then it's time to give those certificates no. And one more thing you'd like to compliment anyway. There was an intensities at one point that postgraduate specialist studies at the university and those who did for a time no longer, but for a time worked high schools equally as a postgraduate specialist university study which, of course, is not the same and which of course should not be done. What should also be done in a legislative sense and in an organisational sense should be made firm frameworks in which university and professional studies would differ. They're not the same studies or if they are, then it's bad. It shouldn't be the same study. Someone made a mistake in the concept if they overlapped and they function the same way today. The Croatian Labour Club will support this bill of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16798	Thank you very much. Your Honorable representative has been registered for your presentation of the replica of the respected representative Valter Boljunčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16799	Well, here I would refer only to maybe the initial part of the exposure that may not have so much to do with this point but to the changes in the law where there is a certain trombone and I think it would be good not to introduce that part of the community against change because if it puts a black stain on the whole community from my personal experiences I think that most of the community is a university for change. So part of that community, not the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16800	Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16801	Absolutely, the whole community is never against some change, but there's always one part of it and it's an accident. It's an accident that results in a great deal of lack of academic courage. I know what college councils look like, and I'm responsible for that, and there's no courage to say no to a colleague, so you can't do that, you're not for a professor. Those courages in Croatian colleges, at least I didn't see her.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16802	Thank you very much. We are going to discuss and present the HDZ Club and call on the respected representative Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16803	Dear Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, but I must absolutely agree with my predecessor, Mr Nikola Vuljanić, that, of course, nothing will solve this regarding science and higher education in Croatia, and I agree that the fundamental changes in the system of science and higher education fail, although they are really necessary. However, I also have to agree with the distinguished representative, Professor Bolunčić, that only a part of the academic community probably does not accept them, but I would take advantage of this opportunity right now, I must admit that it made me try to actually expose some of the spins that exist, especially on this withdrawn proposal for a draft law on scientific activity and higher education because they are so present in the public, and especially when it comes to the development of the scientific activity of higher education that is truly of interest I would say about a very wide circle. So one of the spins is absolutely certain that the reason for the opposition I would say, I don't mean now in a political sense, but in terms of that law, absolutely not, and it's pure spin that the problem was that I could or couldn't do university professors over 65, or that bizarre detail that 2.5% of them could work. Why 2.5, not 2.1 or 2.7, but that is completely, of course, bizarre and even ridiculous, but that was not why many criticised the bill. It should also be made very clear that the other same spin when we talk a lot about it in one newspaper, that one government member representing one college again, one university because he allegedly had a reduction in student registration quotas against it. It's a full spin again, it doesn't matter. The bill did not speak at all, of course, of course, as no other draft law on such details as enrolment quotas at a university, let alone a university. The problem of this proposal, but the problem of Croatian science at all, Croatian education is elsewhere, but it does not want to be clearly defined. One of the problems is that it is absolutely pointless to work a law that should define some new approaches to one area if you do not have a strategy to develop that area. So if the state hasn't made a strategy in this area, if it doesn't know which direction it wants to go, which things it wants to develop in particular, then of course it's very difficult to regulate certain things legally. Much more important even than that or at least as important a problem of Croatian science at this time is that Croatia is at the beginning of Europe after the separation for scientific research and innovation. We ladies and gentlemen stand out less than 1%, exactly 0.76% for science, and the average of European and developed countries is about 3%. It is one of the key problems and unfortunately this money for science is shrinking and it is significantly reduced this year, and next year as much as it will be reduced no one knows alive, but it is certain to be further reduced. So that's the real problem of Croatian science, so all those spins that come up, one of the spins is the articles about how professors at university work a little bit, work six hours a week, and get big wages, and then of course, it comes back with a disagreement of law giving up in a daily newspaper that's got a lot of attention, it's been spinning for a few days now. 20 scientists said that it was not good that it was withdrawn, of which one good part went into retirement 10, 15 or 20 years ago, some others live their entire working life abroad and then, of course, it's very easy to figure out from the perspective of incomparably better conditions, incomparably larger means of research so that in another country something should look or shouldn't look. The problem is actually very simple, and if you want to look at it I'll tell you on an example of biomedical research, it's my area, I'm doing it, so we've calculated at the Medical Faculty how much funding was given for the product of scientific work. The product of each scientific paper is a scientific publication, so the product of the shoe factory is a shoe, the product of science is a scientific publication that is valued according to world criteria, published in some top magazines that are again very objectively evaluated, it has been reviewed etc. And it's a product of scientific work. Therefore, if we want to calculate how much our product costs, then we did it at the Faculty of Medicine and saw that about 3,000 euros were spent for one scientific paper, and around 100,000 euros were spent in developed Western countries again. Now that you compare that 3,000 and some euro on one side and 100 thousand euros on the other side, then you actually get it all quite clear to you at all, any further discussion becomes at least unnecessary to me because it's not factor 2, that's not factor 3, that's not factor 5, that's not factor 10, it's like you see a factor almost 100 times, so it's actually a living miracle that we have any scientific production at all. Therefore, any criticism of such scientific production must come only from how much we are all willing to single out for science, how we will behave when the budget is to be made for next year and how of all those wonderful, beautiful words that we will encourage... etc. Which is going to be a reality in the first place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The expression "knowledge society" I assure you to young people today who do science literally sound like a joke and a mockery. Because in a country where science won't be given money, it doesn't want to give money and there's a lot of words about science that literally irritates young people. Look, we now have a situation that Mr. Darinko Bago, the president of the Koncar administration said at a business meeting of Croatian exporters a few days ago that his 30 doctors of science were leaving Croatia and leaving for Sweden. This is the problem of Croatian science. Because we tried to answer that by any of this bill's proposals, anything else. We didn't. We pretend we don't see it. We pretend not to see the initiative leave Croatia that already had 40,000 likes. These are the problems that we need to discuss, and of course these changes are some kind of cosmetic thing that makes very little sense. Therefore, I had the need to expose some of the spins that appear and which are intended to darken the real truth clearly. They must admit remind me of that spin which was also related to a recent, recent situation of Mr. Antesic and when he talked about how the government president's problem had stood behind him when he was a problem that he went away for one day or didn't go to one day in retirement. Well, that's not really a problem in this particular case at all. The problem was that as mayor of the Rab City budget, he paid his aunt's house accommodations, including after her death. That's the problem. So, we're not talking about a moral problem or the kind of or the kind of and relativeization of things, but I'm talking about the real problems. But as in that case, neither in the case of science, we don't want to touch any real problems. We do not want to touch whether we want to or not to finance science, whether we want good science or not. If we want it, we need to allocate the resources to it, we need to strengthen it, we need to organically strengthen it. And the different cosmetic details that we're going to do like this or not are completely irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16804	Thank you, Your Honor. Your debate was meek, but we haven't heard what the HDZ Club thinks about the law that's on the agenda. That was it. ... Yeah, the first one was that there was no point in discussing it, not how you feel about it. [[You can't hear it.]] We have two reported replicas, three. Three reported replicas. The first is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16805	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Well, here you are, a little ahead of me. I was going to tell my esteemed colleague Reiner that I actually didn't hear much about this new law, about his presentation. Most of your presentations were actually about a law that wasn't in the process. But that didn't actually suggest me to be in replica, but you said that they are unique for science, in fact that this is the main problem of Croatian science that the publications for science in the Republic of Croatia are relatively small. But here, I'll read it to you, I have in front of me a table of budget investment by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in millions of kunas from 2004 to 2010. So, 2004. 2.8 billion, 2005. 3 billion, 2006. 3.2 billion, 2007. 3.4 billion, 2008. 3.8 billion, 2009. 3.7 billion and 2010 Once again 3.7 billion. So what I want to say and underline because you definitely located the problem but the money when it was not allocated to a science that we all agree should be allocated there. But science is like education. So this is the process in which you need to agree to invest for a long time to actually give results. Therefore, this budget, meaning the current or the next will not save Croatian science, and on your part, there was no urgency on your part to increase the funds more significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16806	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16807	So first, when we talk about numbers, then we need to look at all the numbers, and we need to look at the numbers, because I have to say, look at the relationship, let's say, in 2003, towards later years. So there was more money. I'll make it clear right now, there wasn't enough money, there wasn't enough money before, and now there's even less money. So that's the problem, actually, that we're swearing to a society of knowledge, claiming that we're encouraging it, claiming that we're actually out there too little all the time. And every time we talk theoretically here, we all agree. When the budget comes you will be on a proposal that will be, and which will certainly be too little money you will be neatly very much as you should raise your hands for too little money in health care. I'll remind you of that when it comes to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16808	Thank you, too. The next replica is a replica of the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16809	Thank you, Mr. President. Although my predecessor spoke a little bit, I was asked to discuss the Honorable Vice President Reiner for several reasons. So, first of all, I'm glad you're talking about spinning because you're coming from a party that's been doctoring spin for the last eight years. And when I listen to this debate about the law that was withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure, and not that it's not on the agenda, then I come to the conclusion that this whole debate of yours is one big spin or you haven't even read the materials for this agenda point. Well, here, I want you to get ready for the next point a little bit better, so we don't repeat ourselves now, and I don't want to talk about the way you've been talking all this time about your previous actions of your governments. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16810	The next replica of the respected representative, Walter Boluncic. Here you go, Your Honor. No throwing nice please. Respect the Parliament. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16811	... And about other things, but this particular debate has prompted that there are quite different opinions in the academic community about some things and I personally say as much as possible, so Vice President Reiner thinks the law should have gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think he has good solutions. And whether there is or not a strategy whether it's over, whether it's going to work it won't bring any key new things that today is black, white or vice versa. That's why Parliament should be the place to discuss the law. It is also a change of law because it is, although a lot of articles were changed above all if it was proposed, it serves to remove any shortcomings that were observed in application. If we want to raise more money in science, then it would be good to at least set up an organization of that science so that that money and what little it has doesn't go crazy on some side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16812	Thank you very much. We continue the debate, and I hope that's the law that's on the agenda. The next is the respected representative Drazen Djurovic and the HDSSB club. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16813	Here is Mr. President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs very briefly. These more or less nomotechnical changes that the titles are harmonized with this Bologna process will support the HDSSB club. What some of you have already reported here is, in fact, a question that is not directly touched by this law but rather by a number of higher education systems, that is whether the ministry has an answer, whether it has a scientific community response or someone who is how much this entire Bologna process that we have imported from the US through the EU into the Republic of Croatia, is, in some way, suggested it in relation to its kind of scientific and high school tradition that we have and now there is some kind of half-mix, semi-successful, largely unsuccessful. At least that's how much you can hear about the results for now. Is there any answer to how much this together actually made sense, how much has changed better in our universities, and does anyone have an answer to whether this system of higher education is really creating a better doctor, a lawyer or an economist? So now, with such a system, do they even come out, end a university study of better quality people, better educated, better educated? Did that whole system ever get any effect? At that time I did not study but according to what can be heard from those who are now studying to a good degree it was actually quite everything left as it was and it was just otherwise formally complicated. And the content of what should actually try to get it didn't get a good part and because of this lack of money because this relationship of students and professors, the relationship of joint work, joint cooperation and joint progress through the study was not actually obtained. And that's the point. This more or less process in the good part of the university study has been reduced to formally meeting the number of points and those criteria that have been formally established, and in fact in its essence it has not been made a change precisely in this way of studying and relations between teachers and students. By student, I mean student. The second problem we all also think witnesses is when it comes to that so-called. to the high schools that have sprouted in all the towns throughout Our Beauty and their flying lecturers. I think that's where all the criteria fell below every norm and I don't know if the ministry, and in the jurisdiction that I think it does, is actually conducting tests on the quality of teaching and interrogation at those universities. In towns and cities all over our beautiful. And with these extensive professional studies that have already really exceeded every measure and it has started to turn with the quality of the program into an extension of high school. All we have to do is pay a few thousand kunas. And I think it's really time for every town in the Republic of Croatia to have a little bigger town, and we know that the criteria for the city is down to that extent that we have God knows how many cities in Croatia, each of these towns wants to have their own university and now we have these universities all over the cities and towns. It's nice for these small environments, but I think some criteria that it would even have the status of some higher education institutions would still have to be maintained, and I don't think they exist to a good degree today and they haven't been maintained. So, when it comes to doctoral studies or postgraduate studies, they're now three years old, so other than PhD, there's also a 3-year postgraduate study. That number of these ECTC points is 180. These studies I do not know if they have fulfilled the purpose because the fact is that if the PhDs in the Republic of Croatia are compared, so in the Republic of Croatia, unlike most Western European countries, doctorates are not publicly available. So you can, for example, in some Scandinavian countries have a reviewing doctorate base where you can get all PhDs from all areas publicly available. In the Republic of Croatia, doctorates are not publicly available for most unless they are published individually. But what I’m interested in seeing is that in Scandinavia, for example, these PhDs are much simpler and significantly less complex than they are in us. And I think that we ourselves may actually be overly complicated by some things especially when it comes to postgraduate studies. These postgraduate studies in the Republic of Croatia are quite expensive. If the goal is to move towards these doctoral postgraduate studies, then it will certainly need to make sure that these studies are made available to those, financially available to those who should attend them at all. In any case, this proposal of this term will support such a complex HDSSB club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16814	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused one replica. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16815	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here are the more things in your presentation that actually offered me a line because I think my colleagues will agree, but at least we've heard about this proposal in this presentation of yours. I also spoke on behalf of the club and did not take the right to discuss the problems in Croatian school which it has and should not run away from, it definitely does. My colleague is from Požega if I'm not mistaken. You were talking about colleges, does that mean you're trying to shut down the Požega Grand School? All of these universities are open in accordance with the rules prescribed by the ministry and accredited by the ministry, i.e. they have correspondents for student records and teaching. I therefore believe that some minimum conditions are still met. We can then talk further about whether these employees or teaching staff there can be part-time, occasionally or constantly, that's one, that's a whole other topic. More than that, I wouldn't say tradition, but your endeavor in the West is that every city, every community has its own high school in terms of any university, any university, etc. which will produce personnel at a certain level depending on how much it is a university and powerful personnel and wealthy money. But it's something else entirely. We enter one time when it's highly educated one quite standard, it's not anymore, it wasn't like that before. But I realized from your presentation that you consider it a visual specimen, so whether or not a high school was successful, whether it produced less personnel or not. That is, the percentage of the completion of these studies that I believe is not good. Besides, you were talking about postgraduate studies, we have unfortunately a small number of students writing, so first of all, I mean doctoral studies that end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16816	Thank you very much. Answer, honourable representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16817	Thank you. I didn't mean, since this is a topic that isn't really in the domain of any politicization, I didn't mean in any way to politicise, I just made my constructive contribution to this debate. But here you are politicizing yourself, so I'm not going to relate to that. The idea was just a constructive contribution, and I think we're all aware of the situation in those high schools and those more or less most of us are very well-known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16818	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16819	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would say on behalf of the HNS Club one of the few good examples when one law entered into the first reading procedure, now in the second reading where we were through the first reading, and here in the second came to me a very high degree of agreement on what needs to be changed in relation to the first proposal. In the first reading, the CNS also drew attention to these of some of the key dilemmas that colleagues said in previous discussions and I think that what was included in the final proposal, and I think that what was included in the final proposal is a very good solution. They are here, of course, asking questions about what we have done by adopting, or what will result from the good or bad consequences of passing such a law. So I think it was really high time to try a certain order in these names. In fact, it's already been a while since we've gone into the Bologna process and that there's been a whole series of name concerns left, and that even the very people who have completed certain professional, higher schools or individual universities didn't really know where they belonged. It's very important for us at the HNS that this order be introduced and that we finally know who is what. Because it's about living people going out to the labour market. Of course, it will now be a very important question as to how the same labour market, or those seeking personnel on that labour market, will manage and offer, or seek what types of experts they will seek on that labour market in accordance with exactly what this law will do in terms of academic calling. Doubts about whether we need a strategy. So I think it is clear to all of Croatia what would mean multiple for Croatia, I would say, yet a multiple increase in the number of highly educated personnel that could be offered on the labour market and that every step should be taken there, and this is one of those steps that will improve that structure within our population. Much will be resolved by the market, according to our position in the HNS, according to a liberal stance. The quality of the personnel produced, I would not classify them as if they were not classified in a way that they ended up at the university or at the university. She wouldn't even classify them according to which larger or smaller city of the university, or those high schools and vocational schools, those people ended up. They will have the opportunity to prove safely on the labour market their knowledge and skills that they have acquired whether or not they confirm their knowledge. And there's a market, as we know, ruthlessly, but probably only in the end, fair. Since we are unfortunately witnessing the fact that our exams and degrees can still be bought. So, me, we in HNS don't think that the only criterion is whether the Faculty of Law is finished in Zagreb or Split, and the comparison is whether the one who left Zagreb University as a lawyer is a better lawyer than the one who came out of Splitski. And of course not in all other titles, but, of course, it's being valorized later on in the market. In this regard, HNS welcomes the adoption of this law, and welcomes the fact that in recent days, I would say it is being scanned, I would say it is being discussed publicly, and that's good. It is publicly discussed at last about science, there are different attitudes and thinking. I believe that even when we discuss this law that has been announced also in this assembly, we will have similar opportunities in which we have come to this final draft of the law and to the best possible solution in this law. And I wish you many successes. The HNS will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16820	Thank you very much. So we exhausted the clubs, no one answered for an individual debate. Does the motionary's representative, the esteemed deputy minister, want? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16821	Dear Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs. So, on behalf of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and also the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I thank you for your unanimous support of this law. It is sometimes difficult, and sometimes it is inexcusablely difficult to achieve here in the Croatian Parliament, and I am glad that it actually happened at the law in the field of education and science. Some colleagues here have said in the debate that these are ephemeral problems, small resolutions, and we can say so, but I assure you that behind these ephemeral living people too. Here we are talking about several hundred thousand, so that the matter may be a final and bizarre teacher who have indeed been humiliated by the applicable provisions of the law. And so as much as some things seem to be ephemeral to us, I would kind of like to always have people alive behind them, so if we have to solve one small thing at a time, we'd rather solve one small thing at a time than do nothing until we reach and agree on these big things that I see myself seeing if anything else has started to be well right and correctly debated about it and thank everyone absolutely for the contribution. Indeed, a consensus is primarily political and then a professional prerequisite is necessary in order to make changes to the rules. I agree with many of the grades that have been said here by my colleague Vuljanić and other colleagues in the debate that there are a lot of difficulties in implementing changes in the system of science and higher education, and there is indeed a need if nothing from both levels of political consensus is made, and I am glad that this debate is led exactly that way because it gives hope that what is necessary but what is really necessary is not necessary for this or that government but for the system of education and tomorrow for all of us children and that does not sound pathetic but really better society as a whole will actually be made possible. In that sense, I'd just like to say a few details. Here, allow me in this place to announce very probably the next week or week after that, the draft Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework will also come to the Croatian Parliament as a proposal for a law which, for the first time and in a unique way, regulates qualifications on the entire vertical of the educational system that establishes a system of evaluation and quality assurance on the whole vertical, so from primary school to higher education. So far, it exists only at the level of higher education, we see from some discussions that there are recommendations but also offers an institutional structured mechanism to connect the education system to the labour market. It's been a very common mantra so far and it's very difficult for anyone from the education system to look at a glass ball and think what it's going to take to the labour market. The space for structured dialogue between all stakeholders was not and the structure for the implementation of the qualification framework will also provide a formal framework for this dialogue to happen, or for this responsibility to be resolved jointly. It will hopefully be a debate here in the Croatian Parliament very soon and it will provide answers to some of the questions that have been raised today in the debate. Just two more casual notes, it is very important to distinguish that the formal qualification acquired from some level of education, here today we are specifically talking about higher education, so a certain academic calling is us who deal with mathematics would say necessary but not sufficient conditions for access to the labour market. Formal qualification, recognition of formal qualifications is one story, access to the labour market is something else. In some professions, things are internally regulated that actually access to the labour market is sufficient formal qualification. However, as labour market needs develop for an ever-increasing level of capacity, with a certain formal type of qualification, some other conditions need to be met. And it's very important to understand somewhere and now that we don't put on the burden and education system what the education system as such and as itself cannot or ever could achieve. This will be particularly important after the accession of the EU's Republic of Croatia from July next year when not only in regulated professions but also in other professions, allowing freedom of movement and work, that means that people who have studied in other countries in other systems will come to Croatia as well as Croatian citizens with our qualifications will be able to automatically recognise their qualifications, access to labour markets in other countries. And we around here, in fact, all together in the head, we have to say so, to get thinking that formal qualification is an automatic entry into the labour market. That it is necessary she is a formal condition she is formally recognised but in modern society especially in terms of this mobility and labour force but also an educational market word that I do not like to mention with education but in this context it is simply not enough and is not the only condition. And in the end, fellow Djurovic asked just a few things if the ministry was running control of certain types of studies at universities on certain things. So I would just like to remind you that a law on quality assurance in science and higher education has been passed where work and initial accreditation is, and also re-accreditation of periodic evaluation of the obligations of the Legal Agency for Science and Higher Education. The Ministry of Law must not do so, and this is an autonomy of the university, which is a constitutional category where independent regulators that are accredited in European quality assurance networks are then implemented in that way. So the mechanism exists, of course, that in the system of reforming the education system as there has been here criticism of some hinting bolognas coming to allow me a picturesque metaphor to certain disorders. If we're going to go up the hill with the car, we need to change the speed of the car a little bit. So in this part of leading certain changes that are necessary in order to bring our qualifications into line with the European Qualifications Framework, there are certain and perhaps discrepancies, I think that our work is all of us in order to correct and enable the system to function in accordance with both our specific circumstances and the needs of Croatian citizens, but respecting this great picture that they live and work not only in Croatia but also on a global scale must be recognised not only by their formal qualifications and names but also by the levels of knowledge and skills they have acquired during their formal education. Similarly, it applies to a network of higher education institutions. Yeah, it's some problem but I believe that if we all got together together to get together as MPs if we talked about what's good that's not, which is an optimum, how to form a network that doesn't get me wrong, that's how unfortunately the system works everybody would say that, that there's too much but don't break what's in my place. And that's one part or part of the thinking that within the academic community seems to me, Mr. Vice President, that you also mentioned fellow Vuljanic with one courage to face first within the academic community then and at the level of politics that some changes must happen, and that they need citizens at consensus taking into account a large picture rather than individual or partial interests of this or that end without any means of saying the bases or these or those interest groups. That's why I have to admit, and that's why I'm going to conclude the joyous consensus on the amendments to this law. I hope that in a similar way there will be a debate on other laws in this package to say the harmonisations that come from the Ministry of Science but that in a similar way the debate will be given in the report on the work of the National Council for Science, the National Council for Higher Education, given that it has been held since the meetings of appointed strategic bodies that should provide answers to some of the questions raised here today in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16822	Thank you very much. This would end the discussion of the text of this law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16823	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, second reading, PZ No. 110. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hands to state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on academic and professional names and the academic level has been unanimously adopted with 120 votes for the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16824	Now we'd move on to the next item of the agenda. This is - The proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2012 and the proposal for a half-year report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2012 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Boris Lalovac will explain the Deputy Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 which consists of a set of reports. I'm going to try to briefly just actually look at revenue and expenditure means the first six months with that we need, you know, actually that the first three months were temporary funding so that we focus the first part of three months, so this part applies in six months. So when we talk about the revenues of the state budget in the first half of 2012 they were achieved in the amount of 53 billion kuna or 48.7% of the annual plan, which is 3.5% higher compared to the same period of the previous year. The movement of income was also affected by a series of amendments to the tax rules that came into force during the first half of 2012. Tax revenues in the first half of 2012 amount to 30.3 billion kuna or 47% of the annual plan and increased by 4.1% compared to the same period last year. Income from income tax in the first half of 2012 raised 535 million kuna, 41.7% of the plan, which accounts for an annual growth of 4.9%. Income from VAT generated in the amount of 18.8 billion kuna or 46.4% of the annual plan, which is an increase of 6% compared to the same period of the previous year. The main cause of this increase is the increase in VAT from 23% to 25%. In the first half of 2012, the collected revenues from excise duties amounted to 4.9 billion kuna, which is 43% of the annual plan. The revenue from the contribution was reached in the amount of 19.1 billion kuna and 51.8% of the plan, respectively, and represents an annual growth of 1.4%. Despite the reduction in the health insurance rate from 15% to 13% of income from contributions, slight growth suggests positive results from the introduction of measures in the conduct of wage payment practices without payment of contributions. In short, I'll just analyze the expenses. The implementation of total expenditure in the first half of 2012 was €58.9 billion and €49.5% respectively compared to the planned funds of €18.8 billion. Costs for employees from January to June 2012 were made from €11.2 billion, representing 52.4% of the 2012 plan. A large number of regulations on the internal organisation of the Ministry and other central authorities of the state administration adopted in the second half of the first half and the effects of their application should be visible in the second half. Material expenditures amounted to $ 3.8 billion, which is 43.2% of the planned funds. This execution of material expenditure results primarily from rationalisation on expenditures for services that are smaller than the previous year by 14%. The costs for subsidies made in the first half of 2012 are 2.6 billion kuna, subsidies compared to 5.5 total planned costs are 50.8%. From that amount, 1.4 billion kuna was made for the subsidy of agriculture. Compensation for citizens and populations was made at an amount of 31.3 billion kuna or 50.6% of the plans of which pensions and pension incomes were made in the amount of $17.5 billion, representing 49.6% of the total planned funds. And in short, I would just point to a total surplus or deficit. The total deficit in the state budget in the first half of the year was achieved at 5.8 billion kuna, 58.8% of the total planned deficit that we planned for 9.9 billion kuna this year. When we look at the six-year report this year compared to the six-year report last year, it means the same period last year, the government budget deficit is lower by 2.9 billion kuna, resulting in a portion of the $1.8 billion revenue increase, as well as a $1.1 billion expenditure reduction. So in short, I'd just like to point out, the finance ministry is working intensively to stabilise income and keep it under the control of expenditure. So as you can see, there is still a deficit present in the budget and we must be strongly engaged that this deficit we planned by the end of the year of 9.9 billion kuna to keep it under control because it is also one of the conditions and application of all other regulations, as well as the Financial Responsibility Act. So we still have to tell the bad, be honest, poor macroeconomic indicators that are currently in Croatia. But we hope that in the second part of the year it will actually stay, start to show some... so here's the first part, the six-month part, and certainly it will be when the real budget implementation comes and it's even more interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16826	Do the working bodies of the Parliament want to present their report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. The first is the HNS club and the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16827	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So, of course, on behalf of the HNS Club, let me make it clear that we will absolutely support this report on the implementation of the 2012 first half budget. As far as the technical aspect of the budget report itself is concerned, we can say that it absolutely meets all those requirements that such a report of the main political message and the coalition government programme requires or has. But what is crucial in this report, which is to see in which way and in which terms this part of the budget is essentially realised, about its initial state of affairs, inherited relations, debts, obligations, which are policies and programmes implemented from this budget, the adequateness of the activities and measures and instruments resulting from this budget, but of course all those laws and regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which were taken and of course taken on a continuous basis. The complexity of the macroeconomic situation not only in Croatia but in Europe and the world. I don't think it's necessary to speak specifically and emphasize. But that is why it is clear from this report of the six-month budget that there is no longer a growth policy of spending deficits, it is already another policy, policy of change, policy of opening up investment space, investment, employment. And there's no supporting them in a way that they're an infusion that stimulates inactivity. This budget, one of its key messages, which have also received a clear response in international institutions, means the stability of the financial system, the stability of the good credit rating Croatia has received at the moment. This is one of the expressions of the winnings of this budget, the way it was formed, the way it was formed, the way it was implemented with maximum financial rules, i.e. taking account of fiscal responsibility, respect for financial discipline, savings and clear policies towards users. This budget is a budget and a harmonised fiscal and monetary policy, a budget that has provided HBOR 300 million kuna in the first 6 months of recapitalisation in order for HBOR together with the CNB, together with commercial banks and the Ministry of Finance, to agree on economic arrangements, to restructure, to trade in interest rates of 3 and a half percent, and all as a result of a stable budget, financial discipline and what is crucially cheap capital sources for the state, which for the economy, as far as possible for the population. And that's how HBOR is essentially what's not in this report, but it's all part of the policy of this budget and of this government. And basically in the first six months he realised 5.9 billion loans to the economy, which is 23% above the plan. The total deficit in the state budget we heard was 0.9 percentage points lower than last year and 1.7% of GDP, respectively. It's the success of this budget, it's the success of this government. It should not be forgotten that yet the budget was passed at the end of February. Until then, we had a temporary budget. The figures also clearly point to its execution, the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia works, the coalition government. Its expenditures are at 49 and a half percent and revenues at 48.7%. And what we have for the first time in the Croatian Parliament, in the report, is the report on the application of fiscal rules under the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which is prescribed that the reduction of the share of general budget expenditure in GDP should be one percentage point lower than it was last year. The report's description clearly indicates that it will be 1.3 percentage points smaller, which means that not only are fiscal rules met. This means that even in the case of a lower nominal or real gross social product, there are reserves that this government has to address the crisis. Of course, the six-month budget has a lot of data, but since it is a six-month budget that it is essentially four months old, given when it has been brought along with all these political clear messages of stability which this government together with the budget and all measures implements it clearly and this budget indicates that there are no simple solutions, answers to the rapid exit from the crisis. However, it is also clear that we at the HNS also claim that this government can and knows how to respond to the crisis and that it is certainly a great chance to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16828	Thank you, Your Honor. Next is the Social Democratic Party club and respected representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16829	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a tone of my predecessors with a light voice in these relatively late hours to say a few words, so on behalf of the SDP Club on the implementation of the budget for the first six months. So when we talk about that execution for the first term, first of all, and what my predecessors said, we have to consider that it's too short-term from this short-term experience in this House. Generally, discussions on the budget and on some other laws are conducted in discussions on the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of a government, and market research would say that it is practically too small a sample for the past few months. Obviously, this report cannot be evaluated in full scale and quality. The work of the new government can give some signals. This was mentioned by my predecessor in particular in view of the fact that a practically new budget was adopted on 24 February and that one half or one third of this period took place in accordance with the decision on temporary financing. But what we can fundamentally conclude from this document is that the state budget is achieved in line with the planned dynamics, that incomes are realised, and that the deficit is significantly reduced compared to previous periods, among other things thanks to effective cost control. So, good and despite many changes to the law exactly planned time spent commending experts in the ministry as a result of the savings that the government has provided for this proposal. Let us not forget that this budget provides for a reduction, namely a nominal reduction in consumption, a nominal reduction in expenditure of 4 billion kuna, and a greater revenue achievement in view of the increased financial discipline achieved. Despite the largely unfavourable macro-economic indicators, budget revenues have been achieved virtually ideally almost 49% of the plan, which is below mathematically ideal, but if we take into account the standard seasonal component when collecting taxes, I remain on this claim that this is practically ideal compared to the planned one. Thus, the achievement of revenue of nearly 53 billion kuna, which despite the unfavourable economic trends mentioned, is an increase compared to a year earlier than nearly 3.5%. My colleagues and colleagues shall pay particular attention to the increased achievement of the revenue from the contribution. So, for years it's been a cancer wound in our budgets both in the public and in the companies that have had problems, and now thanks to the regulation that we've passed, so the inability to pay without the initial payment of contributions to workers, that's no longer the problem. Despite the reduction in this separate contribution by 2 points, from 15% to 13% of the revenues from the previous year and that rises 1.4%, and this is saying the reduction nominally over 10%. It's not the only positive change that I say is visible in this report, it's going to be in the report in the end. So, the positive change in the law that we have passed here, which I believe will succeed, I say, with financial stabilisation, succeed and raise the Croatian economy. That's what my predecessor was talking about so I wouldn't say it again. The path this government has chosen has chosen to strengthen Croatia's economy. As far as expenditure is concerned, we're reading an even more precise achievement at half a year of 49.5 or just over 58.5 billion kuna. These things are happening more or less according to expectations, so again precisely, the only thing that worries me in some way is that there will be discussions that are slightly greater achievement of staff expenditure and this remains clearly the government's main challenge for the planned achievement by the end of the year. The challenge is also for the finance minister, but also for the primary ministers who run the corridors in which the breakthrough on these items was achieved. In favour of good planning, and I will no longer be too much to praise the people of the Ministry of Finance, it is obvious that we will not have a rebalancing this year, which is not often the case in these areas or in our country. A few sentences, therefore, of these follow-up reports, hence the budget resolution report. As for the use of the budget stock, never a shorter report, never less decisions on that. So there's not a single minister's decision, no prime minister's decision. There are about 8 or 9 government decisions, and it has been announced that there will be no such decisions as are not truly extraordinary. Financially is the most significant State Election Commission and it practically carries 90% of it. As far as state guarantees are concerned, the same 4 guarantees to 2 shipyards, actually the shipyard once. The amount is slightly less than 300 million kuna. A slightly larger amount of HC and HAC – a total of 1.7 billion kuna with maturity deadlines by 2019. I'm afraid HAC is one of the nooses behind this government's neck, but there will probably be discussions about some other points of the agenda. As far as other extra budget users' reports are concerned, things are less or less achieved last year, slightly smaller revenues and slightly higher expenditures, but this is the impact of the DAB that the expenditure has achieved something more than 90%, but now that we are not going into deeper analysis, maybe one of our colleagues will be intrigued. As for this reason, for the first time in a half-year's report on the application of fiscal..., the Fiscal Responsibility Act prescribes this reduction in the share of expenditure within the general budget of the GDP by 1 percentage point each year. In accordance with the economic developments of GDP nominal amount projections for the period 2013 - 2015 was reduced by 9.7 billion kuna or 10 billion nominally. If, therefore, it was planned to vote in the state budget for this year. The total expenditure level according to the ESA 95 methodology 138.8 billion and 40.6% of the total GDP, representing a reduction of 1.3%, in fact, to 1.3% of the total expenditure compared to the consolidated general government, thus meeting that requirement of 1%. The deficit achieved therefore moves within the planned, taking into account this seasonal character. So 9.9 billion are planned, 58.8% of that is achieved. In nominal terms, this is 5.8 billion which is 2.9 billion less than in 2011 thanks to the growth in income of 1.8, and the reduction in expenditures of 1.1 billion. With regard to colleagues and colleagues, all inherited dues in shipbuilding, healthcare, railways, HC, HAC, given the high responsibilities of the Republic of Croatia and given the dependence on international capital markets, the financial stability achieved has a positive impact on the necessary financing and preservation of the international rating. Whether it's a confession or not, it's still a great success and the government as a whole and its finance minister. No doubt, however, it will continue to be necessary to work on further fiscal consolidation. It is evident, the predecessors also said, that all relevant financial institutions and domestic and international support the government's policy to achieve fiscal stability, but also in changes in tax policy that will try to relieve the Croatian economy in order to increase its competitiveness and to build a more balanced budget in the future. The SDP club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16830	Thank you, Your Honor. Next is the HDZ club and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16831	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy, Mr. Assistant Minister. So here are the 12 years of the opposition internship, which is ministerial, which is an internship in the ruling coalition of never fewer MPs and never a quieter discussion about the implementation of the budget, and perhaps the reason why today is a very noisy reaction to this implementation of the budget, and also some have forgotten that they were good athletes when they ran to sign a referendum for the maintenance of certain labour rights, and today unfortunately Croatian teachers, looking at this implementation of the budget, do not have the strength to run as some have run to sign their support two years ago. And that's what I'm saying because it's simply this budget that needs to be read amongst the lines. When you read among the lines then the story turns out to be a little different, then these expenditures aren't as ideal as the story is, but they're a little different. But the truth works since the minister said that all that has been happening in public finances has been the result of a terrible riot in the past 8 years, colleagues and colleagues in 2008, the last year before the crisis, although it has not been the last three, four months of the state budget deficit has been 0.8%. These are facts, and that is the Croatian truth that one or not wants to escape from. And no one can tell who left behind 350 accounts of our arranged treasurer with one account that state finances are a mess. It's just something that doesn't stand and that's something I have to say. But I say never a more peaceful debate from the ruling coalition. Why? So because macroeconomic indicators are simply such that they warn every well-intentioned man that the situation is not good, that the situation is bad. And as much as we're trying to show up, and I'm going to explain that later and with concrete indicators, we simply can't say that some of the government's bad moves didn't lead to this situation. No one can say that certain tax changes did not affect the state of construction and construction, no one can say that. Neither can anyone say, if you raise VAT by not 2%, but by 8.8% or 2% points, and in such a way you did not take more than 2.5 billion kunas from Croatian citizens on an annual basis and that you simply forced them to spend less. These are facts that cannot be escaped, but precisely that raised VAT and the higher prices I will later talk about are the result of a good revenue side of the budget. Because when you look at the other revenues in the state budget, they don't fill so well, because the contribution is less than 1.5, not 1.1 or 1.2 for health care. And the one-time effect of a law that pays no wages without the contribution of wages is slowly losing your breath if you look at the execution in 8 or 9 months. So these are facts that cannot be avoided just as you cannot escape for the first time in Croatia at the time of the tourist season, the number of employees falls and unemployment increases. That's the first time that's happened. So, with exports downgrade, with industrial production falling, these are all facts that are there and which paint the picture of the budget. That's what you see best when you look at the tax revenues, they show you best. That the economy is also a weak activity, and also that Croatian citizens do not have the money to drive, it is simply a fact. Because excise duty isn't something that's variable, it's paid a liter, it's not paid by a percentage, it's paid by a liter, and that's it. And as for the end, the revenues result from the increase in taxes, it also says in the explanation of the Ministry of Finance and the Government. And as for expenditure, they're very interesting, if you ignore the expenses that had to be incurred, so they're expenditures for employees, they're pension expenses, it's a child's allowance and they're interest, then you can see that certain expenditures haven't been made, and some are 20%. And if these expenditures were made in principle 50%, then the government budget deficit would be up somewhere by a billion six, a billion seven hundred, and if the government wants to implement certain programmes, they would have to be implemented by the end of the year, and then the deficit would look quite different. But in these expenditures, no one said that the budget would be reduced by the educators. That children employed in state and public services will not be paid a gift to children and that also 240 thousand state and public officials will not get a Christmas card. And when we talk about wages, then there's another piece of information from a colleague and a colleague. These costs of 21 billion employees do not include salaries costs of about 70,000 in health care, as they are paid through hospitals and are not an integral part of the state budget. So if we add another seven billion to this 21 billion dollars of health care workers or 3.5 billion at a half-year-old level, then this increase in expenditure above a pay-based plan would look much worse. So these are facts that you can't escape from. We also warned when adopting the budget that the expenditure on interest will increase, that the planned expenditure will not be sufficient as planned in the state budget. And you can see that already in 6 months, and you can see it especially after 8 months where the interest costs are higher than about 650, almost 700 million kuna compared to the plan. And that's a safe item, which at the end of the year, will very much penetrate the spending side but is not seen in the state budget. However, what is very interesting and what makes such an ideal expenditure side of the budget is for you to obtain non-financial assets or to say about buildings and equipment that are the most practical benefits in health and education. Here you have planned 1725 million at the annual level, 308 million were executed. If we were going 50%, then that execution should be somewhere around 860 million. So 560 million more than it is now, and if the government wants to implement the program and if it wants to build schools, get the supplies to hospitals and schools it has promised, then by the end of the year it will have to increase those, spend that 1,700 million kuna. So the expenditure on this position in the other 6 months will not be 300 million but will be 1 400 million. So 1 100 million more than it was in the first six months. So add to that those 600 million interest, add about 400,500 million to that, so when you add that in a farm of 2 billion, of 4,600 million paid, actually at that half-year level is about 2,300 million, paid 1,900 million, that's again about 500 million less. So if the Department of Entrepreneurship is talking about having great data in the first six months spending 300 million, so 150 million less than that half-yearly level. If the Ministry of Economy spends 60 million less, then here's your deficit at the end of the year, which will be more than 2.5 billion or 3 billion kuna. If these expenses are carried out as planned in the budget, or we'll say in hospitals you won't get that machine, you won't get that machine, or we'll say in schools your school will wait a year or two days. Because if these 1,700 million are executed, now we've had 300 million done, then in the second half of the year we have practically 5 times, actually four times the cost of that position alone, but in the first six months. So these are facts that we cannot escape from, and it also happened for the first time in the recent history of the Republic of Croatia that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not react to the difficulties of Croatian farmers whether left or right. In 2002, the government has already sent a budget, and then the coalition government of SDP, HNS, has changed the Croatian Parliament's budget to 600 million kuna in the name of helping farmers remove the effects of drought. Likewise, in 2006 or 2007, the HDZ government was also 300 and a few million kunas to remove the effects of floods and droughts. Therefore, every government has reacted, but this government has not yet responded. It's precisely because of a beautiful picture of a budget that, unfortunately, I don't think anyone can be happy or laugh about it, it's not exactly what it shows. And I could now go from item to item and collect expenditures that have not been made or have not been implemented in the first 6 months, and it will have to be carried out in the other 6 months by saying almost all expenditure on the basis of which Croatian citizens exercise certain rights are paid for the first 6 months and have a certain excess. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues report on the state budget amending the Law on Contributions where it is said to have released the Croatian economy. You know who benefited the most from the Law on Contributions actually by changing the health contribution from 15 to 13%? If you take that gross salary as in health care, which in this other part is 28 billion and then if you get to that little gross pay and that's what the contribution is and when you take a reduction of 2% or some of those is about 13.5% and 14%, then you turn out to be the biggest contributor of the reduction of contributions is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The budget is... based on the payment of contributions for payments from the state budget will have to be paid around 350, 400 million kuna less. That's a fact. This was not given to any company in Croatia or nearly as much money. So it's a smaller spending site when we want to compare to 2011. What about this great budget that he sent to Croatian citizens? So to help HEP, let's go with the current 20%, but we'll cut the teachers' wages. Gas plus 37% of Croatian citizens didn't even feel what it means, only now that cold months start when the sea heating starts, so when they get bigger bills 200, 300, 400, 500 kuna depending on who has the house or apartment will feel it. Heating in Zapresic, Velika Gorica, Zagreb, Osijek, Sisak plus 37% and I have already said those 2.5 billion kunas we quietly and slowly took from Croatian citizens in our pockets in the name of increasing VAT rates. So take as many of you as we have taken from the pockets of the Croatian citizens with this foundation. Over 3.5 billion. And now someone else says there is room to reduce the contribution that Croatian citizens will receive an additional 7 billion. Well, I'd like to see what kind of Croatian citizens have that kind of money. And finally, no matter how much we talk and how many stories there have been in this House, unfortunately there are few of these older colleagues who remember that about those redistributions of the famous within the position, etc. The budget rebalance is necessary. But there's something else, and I'm going to end up with that which is very interesting. In the years when Croatia had an economic growth of 4, 5 or 6%, when it was evident that the budget was charged with 10, 11% more than last year when the IMF mission was coming, then 15 days earlier, the IMF was buzzing and talking about what would happen, and also with impatience, what the IMF would say when it came to Croatia. Now it's been very quiet. Somewhere in the paper, you had some kind of record of what the IMF would ask us to do but it would be just as interesting to see what he's saying about social policy, what he says about economic policy, what he says about managing public enterprises and a series of other things that paint this budget the way it is. And since I have a little time and I'm going to privatize some of the things from the constituency that I come from about extra budget funds I'm going to talk about in an individual debate. So colleagues and colleagues nothing is as nice as it seems to be beautiful and wants to be shown. This report on budget implementation should be read among the words for a simple reason that there is not a single man who is looking forward to such poor macroeconomic indicators and then we will all be aware that the situation is much, much more difficult. And when we manage to get the data for the first nine months then you will see that as far as the spending party is concerned, the story is probably much, much worse and we will see also the financial effect of the tourist season and as far as the excise duty is concerned, we had a minister who was in the Parliament and he did not disprove they are very bad no matter what. So these are all reasons why HDZ will tell not this kind of policy towards Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16832	Thank you very much. The clause rebus sic stantibus and on your exposure three replicas. Let's get this straight. The first is Honored Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16833	In 2008, an esteemed colleague mentioned the year 2008 as a perennial for the development of 2.4% of the public growth of gross products but failed to say that the results of economic policy must be comprehensive and that year, in fact, the average annual inflation measured by the consumer price index was 6.1%, the current account deficit increased from 7.6% of GDP from 2007 to as much as 9.4% of GDP in 2008 which, of course, had to have a reaction to a restrictive monetary policy and as we know that fiscal and monetary accounts were working very badly at that time, respectively, to the new coalition government and all the situations and today we feel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16834	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16835	I don't know where you pulled your friend Gjurkovic's inflation in 2008 was 6%. This is simply not true because the expansion in 2008 started at the end of the 10th, 11th, 12th month and in the 12th month you had inflation 6% exclusively due to the increase in oil derivatives prices. But what you can't deny is that the 2008 deficit was 0.8% that's a fact and that's the consequence of one responsible fiscal policy no matter what you're saying. And this all that happened afterwards is the result of the economic crisis. So you can't bend the data and the other thing when I talked about 2008. I said why I said that, for the simple reason that no one can say that there was an irresponsible fiscal policy because if, in a normal year where growth was 2.4% less than the year or two before, the deficit of the state budget was 0.8%. And the other thing is not to talk about the hidden deficit and the costs of shipbuilding. All those involved in the economy and finance in Croatia knew about the restructuring programme for Croatia's shipbuilding that went towards Brussels, which Brussels approved, where it was clearly said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would take over issued guarantees on itself, to the state budget as a restructuring programme for Croatian shipbuilding. So that's something that was known and that's something that's not controversial. And as far as health care is concerned, I think that data is perfectly accurate and I think that fellow Milinovic will be able to say precisely in his individual debate, he knows. When you talk about health care, then you should say precisely, health care has so-called. Aryans, you know exactly how many they are and if they grow in one year compared to last year, then that increases your deficit. So, fellow, if you're talking, then use the exact data because I'm saying, I'm here using facts not politics, and how good these results are is the debate of you and your colleagues from the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16836	Thank you very much. Next replica to your exhibition, respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16837	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Schuker very often points to a problem stemming from an increase in VAT from 23% to 25%. I'm not an economic expert, I remember something like that. I'm a former VAT official. It seems to me that before that VAT increase, there was another VAT increase from 22% to 23%, so I would be so free to ask my colleague Shuker to explain to me what arguments and justifications for this VAT increase were different from this increase now. On the other hand, it is also very often mentioned by the electricity price, and since I am not an economist, I am interested in whether he recommends in this assembly the HEP and the Croatian government to deliver electricity to the market below real prices, below the prices that exist in the environment and which are a reflection of the actual costs in the production of electricity that are sufficient that HEP as part of the portfolio of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all Croatian citizens as a company could possibly then operate positively. So does he recommend that we go below the prices that are economically justified or try to keep HEP on our feet and prevent its possible bankruptcy and financial fiasco. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16838	Thank you, too. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16839	My colleague Baranovic first thing, you should know that you are in power and not us, so I should ask you questions but we are colleagues so we don't ask each other questions. But as you're already pulling your tongue, when we've increased the last power, then we've said that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have consumption to that level will not increase their electricity, but this increase has been paid from the state budget. So it didn't go to HEP, so don't speak wrong. The facts are unobstructed, the figures are unobstructed, and you have that in your budget. So for that increase that wasn't paid by citizens who were less property... every year from the budget of the separation between 120 million and 140 million kuna. So the government reacted in such a way to increase. You haven't responded to the socially endangered, Mrs. Fabiancic, so please tell me, don't jump in on the side like this. And the other thing about increasing VAT from 22% to 23% then was clear in the assembly, you can read the phonogram, so it was clear to you that since we failed to intervene on the expenditure side, so we failed to reduce certain expenditures, we have to intervene on the revenue side, and therefore we suggested increasing VAT for a simple reason... contained in certain frameworks. So we said that, and that's what we were standing by, and you were yelling, yelling, harassing, and I know what you weren't singing, and by a trace of it, you'd also honestly tell me why you picked up the VAT. Because you said you'd raise VAT and you wouldn't pay people their wages, regress, etc. Well, I don't know what the result of the election would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16840	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16841	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let me look back at Mr. Shucker's exposure and absolutely agree with everything that's been said, but I just want to point out, too, that this policy that was led in the first half of this year, I have already said several times that she is primarily repressive, not only for natural persons but also for legal persons. We've been listening here how ideal everything is, how an inflow into the budget is ideal, so we're asking ourselves a question so that we don't and be when we're in today's time and this government of the Kukuriku Coalition has taxed everything that was taxed. The VAT has been raised to the highest level and I ask you which countries in our environment have such high VAT except Croatia. Of course, the worrying fact, especially health care and all those institutions that are dealing with huge losses today, is the question of where this budget will settle these same funds at the end of the year, while remaining the deficit that 9.9 billion are being talked about today, the question is raised and the answer is given. We only have two ways, either to raise a new loan, which will disrupt the deficit by borrowing or we will sell out the property that we still have left, which is the only goal and only solution, and this government plans to sell Croatia's insurance, sell Croatia's mail and thus settle the debts that are primarily in health care and in all those institutions, but the same question is what happens, what will the next government in general and what will remain of its state property in the first place. So it's worrying...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16842	Thank you very much. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16843	To talk about the budget in this way, but we have big problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16844	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16845	Yes, my colleague Lucic, there was a tax coup against the Croatian economy no matter how much we talked about us disbursing the economy with 2% of the contributions. When you look at the total for those employees, for everyone for whom that contribution is paid, it's about 2 billion, 2.4.2.5 billion at the annual level, however, when you distribute it to 200 and some thousands of legal and physical persons who are bonds of pension for themselves or for their employees, that amount turns out to be very small. And when you look at the situation towards the Ministry of Health, then the amount is terribly large because health is simply very difficult without structural reforms can function below the level of resources that are currently being made. Therefore, if 2 billion and 400 fewer are collected from the base of the contribution, then the logical thing is that health care will be lacking and will have to be taken from tax revenues. However, what I was saying when I said that certain items should be read among the ranks and these are funds from the Ministry of Economy that were to go towards Croatian economies. So, these incentive funds, most of them still haven't been paid off. When will she be paid? In the 11th or 12th month? And about HBOR funds and funding through HBOR some projects in a very strange way I will talk about it in an individual debate. But to tell the economy that you relieved him, at the same time to impose a VAT situation on him as it is. Because with those amendments to the law on certain costs that the owners will not be recognised for VAT returns, with different classes in the calculation of income tax rates where the pay is in principle a reduction and if the employers wanted to keep the same level of salary the employees receive then they had to increase the gross amount, because that increased income tax that came had to be paid from employers' funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16846	Thank you very much. The speech has a representative of the proposer, Deputy Minister of Finance, respected Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16847	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to say, a little bit, I wouldn't normally want to answer the question, but when you guys repeated the facts more than 20 times, when you said the fact in 2008. 0.8% then I'd be glad if you said the fact of the deficit of nine, ten, eleven over 40 billion kuna. It's the same fact. That's the fact that you actually left a hole in the budget. It's the same fact. So the ninth, tenth, eleventh deficit was 15, 10, 15 billion kuna. That's the facts. So, the fact was also that there was a decline in economic growth, so the decline in the economy of the ninth, the tenth was about 7%, it was a fall and that's the same fact. Right? It's the same fact. The same is the fact that when your economic policy ended in 2011 you left a deficit of minus five percent where you did not include health care and where you did not include non-payments to the railways, that they could not pay the wages. So the deficit is minus 10%. It's the same fact. ... No, not the tenth. [[You can't hear it.]] I'm talking about minus five percent of what you left the deficit and five percent I'm talking about health care. And if we count where they're going to have to now, where the railroad can't actually pay, the public companies are also indivisible. So, we're gonna have to raise our loans, we're gonna have to borrow, we're gonna have to settle. ... Yeah, even with the... [[You can't hear it.]] Unfortunately, because such an economic policy is what you've been leading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, the numbers are just like that. That will, unfortunately, be paid by Croatian citizens. Irresponsibility will unfortunately be paid by the citizens. Unfortunately. Because the deficit someone will have to pay. Yeah, and that's, and actually I'd like to think about it if you said the same thing about what they really are, if you weren't talking about that part right now that it's actually these six months, that we actually broke down with our economic policy. I'm in my presentation, you didn't listen to me, I didn't point out that it was an ideal condition. You haven't heard a word I've said. I said it was a serious condition, that bad macroeconomic indicators and that we're trying to do everything we can to stabilize. Those were my words. You've never heard from me any praises and idealizing certain things. I just want you to repeat a hundred times some of the facts that are also valorizing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16848	Thank you, too. You've registered two replicas. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16849	Mr. Deputy Minister, I have not denied in one word the deficit of the ninth, tenth and eleventh. I'm 2008. He said deficit as last year before the crisis. And also, in no word can you see it in a phonogram, I didn't talk about budgeting like you said, but I was just listing the facts. The other thing is, I don't get it now. We've given HZ two billion and 700 and we've created a lot of problems, and this year in the HZ budget you've predicted a billion and 400 I don't know if that's all right. Now wait a minute, and the other thing is a colleague of Lalovac HZ is not a deficit of the state budget. HH is the deficit of the state budget as the resolution ministry suggests and how high this House adopts that HH will be able to spend. But I'm just telling you, you've secured nearly a billion kuna compared to 2011 in the budget. So I don't see how you can appeal to railway problems for some years ago. And as for the health care of fellow Milinovic, he answered the line, so he will tell you. But you can't deny the fact that the total funds for the purchase of non-financial assets, so for the purchase of equipment, for building buildings, etc. Of the billions and 700 million, only 300 million were spent. So I'm saying if you're going to do everything you promised by the end of the year you have to spend a billion and 400 million kuna, which is a billion and 100 million kuna more than it was in the first term, and I just pointed it out as a potential danger nothing more. I don't understand why she's nervous. But I repeat, what it is in 2008. Any 0.8% you can't deny it and you can't say it was an irresponsible policy. You can't say that. It's just facts you can't escape from. But I'm just telling you, I inherited 6.9% of the deficit. Also, some people told me it wasn't that much, so we came to 0.8. Everyone worked at some point, so maybe if the crisis hadn't come in 2009, the budget deficit would have been, in fact, gone. The budget would be balanced. But I tried to well-intentioned some things, but apparently there's only one truth that the party says.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16850	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica will wait behind both of us. And now a new replica of respected representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16851	Thank you, Mr. President. The deputy minister also mentioned health care and mentioned debt in the Croatian health system. We tried to warn in time what counterpart Shuker said that the reduction of contributions to the Croatian health system would throw on the knees of the health system as shown. Because for the first time in Croatia's history, Croatian hospitals don't have basic business during the tourist season, and when I talk about basic business, I don't even think about pay, I mean medicine. When we started reforming the health system, then there was a debt with the current payment deadlines of 5 billion kuna in three years, and it was included in four years, and there was also a year of crisis. We have reached debt in the Croatian health system managed to reduce from 5 to 2 billion kuna. The figures do not give a lie and the latest financial report by the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance indicates how right we were when we said that the health system lacks funds, that waiting lists will be as long as they are and with the violation of collective agreements, but the fact that today comes from that budget is an additional debt in the Croatian health system only in the first 6 months or to be more accurate than budgeting, so even less is almost a billion kuna. So now that we're comparing the government before and the current government to the current payment deadlines, you've increased your debt in the Croatian health system from 700 million to billions of kuna. Not to say once again how long the waiting lists have been extended, and health care is now missing between 100 and 150 billion kunas each month. I will discuss the implementation of the state budget in the Croatian health system later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16852	Thank you very much. Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16853	Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to answer the fact that the situation is difficult and we're aware of it. So it wasn't in my report that the situation was good, but you're calling us irresponsible in that part to press and press, believe us, we're doing everything we have instruments to help and the economy and to preserve the stability of the budget. I think it's a common interest. So that's what I'm appealing to all the time. So, you're going into a lot of these facts, so there's no anxiety, and that's all I wanted to answer is that they're the same facts. And if the situation were difficult and the problems were big, they were. Unfortunately, they did, and we're all aware of that. And every day we actually let's say we've been working 24 hours and we're trying to keep our heads above the water, and it's really hard. It's very difficult and I'd just like to point out to you that they're not, that this government is not irresponsible in that part as you said and increasing certain costs, and we know that there are conjectures, unfortunately, but simply the situation at this point doesn't allow us instruments... stabilisation. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16854	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas. We're going to a club debate. The next club is the Club of National Minorities and the Honorable Representative of Denesh Shaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16855	Mr. President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. I want to get involved in this debate and point to certain moments related above all to budget expenditures and for the reason that I appreciate that we are ahead of the budget for next year, so I want to make some suggestions on this side. In fact, when the spending side of individual ministries is passed, it is then concluded that relatively large items are detached from the state budget for individual areas for individual cities, first of all, for one form of an extremely high social and municipal standard. It's less or less about sports facilities which I support, I don't mind, but when you're looking for certain rural funds and for the lowest, it means that one foothold is made towards an object in a cemetery or one House of Culture in the Great Village that doesn't exist then we find some problems and difficulties because there are no funds. We know that the economic situation is complex and budgetary, but we also know that, I have received such a response that certain items are inherited, therefore it must be financed, and let me if there are over hundreds of millions for various forms of high social and municipal standard then it is difficult to explain down on the ground that for some elemental needs there are no such funds. I am aware that residents of my place, villages, cannot have a communal social standard such as the citizens of the White Manastir as the city or the White Manastir can have as Osijek has, nor can the Ossetians have what Zagreb has. However, I think we need to take care of some areas, especially in areas of special state concern, of a certain minimum that would have to be ensured. I have to stress here and it is known that this minimum to ensure it is primarily the task of local self-government. However, local self-government, I am thinking first and foremost of Baranja and also of eastern Croatia in Slavonia, do not have the strength, do not have the power of the legs of these local self-government to solve it. I can point out to you now only an example of the local community where I live, where I am chief and when it is looked at this information that we have 17,000 acres of fertile orna, with 5.6,000 acres of forest, there are also valuable horns in these forests, then the river Danube and Drava is there, but the budget of the municipality of that great resource is very, very few. One large part of these quality necklaces is in a long lease, in a concession. From this minimum small lease which is one third of the market value, we get for the 50% budget of the municipality. So that's a ridiculously small amount. The same large company is making huge investments, but local self-government is the most common of these large investments in a material sense almost nothing. A new modern plant for 40 million kunas was built and 30 workers worked in the old plant, in the new one there is enough 9, 10, and those other 10, 14 of them come to me in the hallway looking for work, right? However, it is one process normally should and should continue, and the same situation is either very similar to the rest of the agricultural population where we used to be in our villages, I looked at the tax books, we had in a small village of 30, 35 as we then called them max. They had 10 acres and they were doing something else, they were all doing something. And now in that village we have 2 OPGs that each has 300 acres, they're worth, they're extremely working, they live well, and the rest of the 10 acres can't live, they're more or less waiting for some kind of pension or social aid. The sad thing is that these little villages come alive when they come to help and eventually retire. I am saying this for this reason that the only reason we can see that service activities are developing, and in view of the resources of various forms of tourism, and in order to develop this, it is necessary to build quality infrastructure. And I must say that in this respect significant steps have been made, it should be observed regardless of the problems and difficulties. However, I think that this should continue and pay a little more attention to these areas in order to ensure the existence of the population. I must also say that I counted in 5.6 villages we have nearly 300 empty houses and another 300 houses where only grandparents live. Therefore, in this respect, we must make use of these resources, build infrastructure to pray for the employment of the population. In the end, I'm saying all that, Mr. Deputy, a little bit when we're putting together a budget to appreciate these moments for these rural areas. In the end, I would be incorrect not to say, not to even express my gratitude because I have come across a certain understanding of the Minister of the Church over the past few years, both at Minister Šuker and Mrs Dalic, and with the current minister. I hope it continues that way. And I have to especially highlight the understanding and administration of Beja personally and Mr. Todorovic who show understanding the same as you all have shown here, but I have to finish with this, that it's all expensive not enough, it takes a little more understanding, more understanding, and then things will be okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16856	Thank you, too. In accordance with Article 207(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 207 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in 18.16 expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. The next club is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16857	President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected deputy with an associate. Here, dear colleague Shaw says he has an understanding, but he needs much more understanding. I hope that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have an understanding of such a policy as this government's water. Someone said before, it seems to me that Honorable counsel Shucker said that never in a peaceful atmosphere was discussed. Yeah, it's a bit of a chamber atmosphere, not a calm, chamber atmosphere. The facts are saying, here's the thing before it's said the situation is difficult, the problems are big, we're trying to keep our heads above the water, it's all an appeal to the drowners. Looks like we're all aware of that. These people who were protesting today in Mark’s square and protesting throughout the city of Zagreb certainly did not do it out of obstetrics and certainly did not do it because they had too much money and because they boasted and wanted to grab as much as possible in the state register. Too few indicators so far that it could be sure that success, whether the state budget is successfully implemented, is certainly too little. However, what concerns me as a Croatian Labourer, it is a growth in income, especially from taxes, should be satisfied. The most successful minister is Mr. Linic, who collects taxes, which affects citizens' pockets, and on the other hand what do we have? We have a catastrophic situation, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are becoming more and more difficult to live for. Only once is mentioned here in the debate of politics, populism will likely be after my presentation. The state is getting more successful in what it's doing, that's how it gets the impression, that's how citizens get harder. On the basis of which it shows excellence from the government or the success of this government in the budget, at least what we have seen so far. Workers' rights to obtain savings are cut, patients' rights are denied. I don't know if any of the ministers in the government, other than the Minister of Health, are going to Croatian hospitals and see if they see what they are, what they are like in Croatian hospitals, that toilet paper, nightgowns, pajamas, clean sheets are no longer to be brought with them. We close our eyes before that, we don't want to talk about it, but it's a situation, there's no situation in this statistics. In these statistical indicators there are no, here it is said that income has increased, income has increased especially from VAT, VAT knows who feels the most, the consequences of this VAT are citizens, so last in the chain that buys, which is harder and harder to live. He says former governor of the Croatian National Bank Mr. Rohatinski said before he said before he went that everything fell which could have fallen apart from growing revenues in the state register. Now that is not clear to me, I am not sufficiently economically submerged so that I can understand how if everything fell and the revenues grew and how long this tightening of the Croatian citizens can suffer and what will happen if we do not start production, and only if we have listened to in the pre-election coalition Kukuriku coalition coalition coalition in the pre-election campaign Kukuriku coalition that they will have a solution to how to start production. We had one slogan on this right side that was going to start Croatia we came to a break-in, they ran it in the direction we didn't want. We also heard Mr. Shucker that there was no crisis that the 2009 budget would have been balanced assuming that there was no Mr. Sanader. Who knows what would happen if Mr. Sanader were to assume that there was no crisis and suppose Mr. Sanader remained unbalanced because we see how he shared billions with the French, how far they reached into their pockets as far as they reached into the register, so very difficult that, with such power, such government leadership could balance anything and neither could this budget. I hope this government keeps its head above water. We are aware that they will not keep their promises because they first promised to launch projects by the spring. The first Deputy Prime Minister guaranteed his status in the government and said if we don't, we'll resign. So it was until summer, so until autumn so we brought up next spring now in the last interview he said actually in response to the Laburists he said he didn't think of it no matter what happens to him to resign. Therefore, this report that we have received on the implementation of the state budget is received as a set of statistics, and you know well that statistics can often be large and say many and damned lies. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16858	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Nadia Jelash's respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16859	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So in his debate, counterpart Vuksic asked the question of what is the excellence of this government in which it is manifested. Well, I'll just say a few things in a hurry. So this country's credit rating has been preserved, and that means that several billion kunas have been preserved, how much more would cost us to refinance existing debts and liabilities. Rating was maintained by reducing budget expenditures and reducing the overall budget deficit, and despite this reduction in total expenditures, neither pensions nor maternity benefits, nor child benefits, and I think that is a huge achievement in this particular situation. Furthermore, increased tax discipline is important, increased financial discipline is important, but all of this will be more extensive in my individual discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16860	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16861	Dear colleagues, I agree. A credit rating was saved as a matter of fact. First of all, it's preserved, it's collected. What's produced, what's started? That's what we're interested in. 'Cause before I said how long we're gonna hold it together, how long we're gonna take once it's gonna go away. The problem is in production, that we kept the credit rating even though this government promised to meet the citizens to protect the rights of citizens, why it did not touch the foreign exchange clause in hundreds of things that were promised, and we are talking about how this is a social democratic government and in fact, in the replicas, a more social democratic Kukuriku coalition or HDZ has competed. I really don't know now I really don't know. All lefties alone don't know where we belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16862	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate for 10 minutes. First of all, he's a respected representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16863	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Assistant Minister. This debate will probably be much easier now for colleagues from the Ministry of Finance because I intend to refer to extra- budget users who are one in the consolidated balance sheet of the state when the deficit is calculated and others are not. Because we have all started our discussion today and colleagues from the SDP from the HNS and Vuksic, and ultimately the government's representative with poor macroeconomic indicators. Then something really doesn't make sense to me. If Croatian highways have had distinguished works on certain highway routes in the Republic of Croatia, if these works are already being carried out why these works are so slow when the construction site is practically maintained. If the EIB credit provides the bridge via Jakushevački ranjerna station towards Sarajevo Street and ends practically this part of the Zagreb-Vika Gorica-Sisak highway and if the funds are secured for the stock to Lekenik why it has slowed down if we do not have economic activity, we have money, we have contractors doing the job. So if we're short of a job, why is that slowed down? The second is already affecting the deficit of the state budget because it is the Croatian roads and they are in a consolidated balance sheet of the state bypasses or connected road Homeland Bridge-Velika Gorica. Practically a kilometer and a few more roads are running, while there was a beautiful dry summer time then something rolled up now it wants to make something just like an investment that was supposed to end. 840 million Croatian water resources are intended for local self-government units to build municipal infrastructure, i.e. water infrastructure and sewage. It is very interesting that many cities have submitted demands among other things and Velika Gorica has submitted for 148 million kuna, but it is very interesting, given that there is a HDZ coalition in power that we have received only 2 million kuna. But if those funds had been given in the 3rd, 4th month before the start of the construction season, if these projects were all there, they weren't born like this overnight, because for these projects, construction permits should have been established all, many construction companies would have had their construction operations employed, probably the situation regarding the collapse of economic activity in construction would have been slightly smaller. Finally, to demystify this story about HBOR, when you look at EUROSTAT statistics and according to the statistics sent to EUROSTAT, HBOR then the total HBOR debt goes into the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, all that HBOR has committed to finance certain economic programmes is in a certain way a danger to the fiscal picture of the Republic of Croatia's budget. However, what concerns me, and this will certainly be agreed by my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, is that certain projects from HBOR are funded in a slightly strange way, which is that loans are obtained by contractors, and later these loans will be paid by municipalities, cities, counties and perhaps by the Ministry of Finance. Now that would be all right if we had increased that decentralised part of the local self-government unit through that funding law, because if we impose certain obligations on them, then it's their turn to give them an increased share of income tax. So these are some of the purely local topics, similar to what colleagues could say about the bridge on Drava, something could say to these colleagues in the south about the Peljesk Bridge, etc., so a number of things that are almost, which could be invested several hundred million kunas that would not fiscally disrupt or statistically disrupt the image of the Republic of Croatia, but at least as far as that macroeconomic indicator, as far as the building is concerned, would be much nicer, much easier. I will not enter this budget part, except for the school mentioned in Novi Cic where the same projected money has been held in the budget, however, two people have held the site for nine months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16864	Thank you, Your Honor. On the very mild exposure of the reported three replicas and on the local subject. First is the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16865	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's an easy exposure, but on a local topic, since my colleague Shucker and I come from the same constituency. He mentioned the famous Sisak-Zagreb road that really deserves to be completed, for which we received the answer by representatives from the 6th constituency that would be completed and that the funds were provided for it. But the other day I'm reading in a daily newspaper, I won't mention not to advertise them, Mr. Drazen Gustin told the president, and I'll quote you the following from that text, Mr. Schucker. The 2009 contracts worth 13.5 billion kuna must be terminated. It is about contracts for the Dubrovnik-Doli highway, the Zagreb-Sisak highway and the Podravski ipsilon highway. He said that a few days ago, and we read it in the papers, so I'm worried about what's going to happen, you're talking about plans, you're talking about encouraging major infrastructure projects, we're all talking about how much is going to happen by the end of the year, by the end of the year. So we hear from the first Deputy Prime Minister that he says he'll only resign if they don't come true in the spring. Well, I want to warn you that in 2002, 2000, when the minister acted the same way, he stopped building our highway, so I'm afraid that on the trail of this, it won't be stopped right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16866	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we expect a replica of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16867	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So this coalition started working first with shovels there on that famous Sisak bridge, then in 2003 there was one handsome performance with those little buggies that children play with, and some still think that the highway can be made with shovels as in the days of work, and it might be better to do so than not. But some people can't possibly understand that the road can't be made with little baggers, but they need serious machines to do that. And Sišnjeni is very much the people of Banovina need a freeway because who doesn't know what it looks like to sit in the car so in the afternoon between 3 and 5 tries to reach Sisak or in the morning between half 7 and 8 of Sisak towards Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16868	Your Honor, under your authority, I thought that you would... become iron and make that road, and you didn't, unfortunately you didn't make that road. The next replica is the respected representative Fabiančić-Krisanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16869	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a replica of the presentation of my fellow Shucker, because I certainly cannot agree, especially with the projects of the local authorities. First of all, I'm amazed at the amount of manipulation in your presentation, especially with regard to local issues. First of all, you wonder why while there was a hot weather crossing around the eastern bypass, even though you know that during HDZ, you agreed to perform the works even though you knew in advance that no property relations were solved at all. Property relations, don't be surprised, even on a small part of the property as regards the eastern bypass are not solved, but most of it is, so the fast work is now being done because we had to do it, and you also arranged for the works and introduced the contractors to perform the shares of the Zagreb-Sisak highway, although you haven't solved the property relations. And as for baggers, it was a performance, of course, because you opened the 10km section three times each time two weeks before the local elections in Velika Gorica. The Bagercics were not in 2003 but in 2005 ahead of the local elections because you were at the same time while these baggers were performing opening the Kushanec node stock, so in 2005, you were in power until 2011. In 6 years, you built only 10 km of Zagreb-Sisak highway and only in the area of the town of Velika Gorica, although all the time in public, you said that the then authority at the head of Tonina Picul was obstructing the construction of the Zagreb-Sisak highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16870	Thank you very much. You've signed up now, Your Honor, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16871	So I'm very glad Mrs. Fabiancic said what she said. So in 2005, when Mrs. Dropulic issued a construction permit for the eastern bypass of Velika Gorica, then the great road construction experts in Velika Gorica were in power to file a criminal complaint against Mrs. Dropulić because that the tram track should go between two lanes and not on the sides, and that was only reason to stop the works from starting. And that criminal report filed by the mayor at the time, you know, she stopped work on the eastern bypass for almost a year and a half, two days. Another thing, Mrs. Fabiancic, so there are documents... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16872	Here's your esteemed colleague, just please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16873	And the other thing about your performances is the biggest show you've ever done in the mountains, so you've gone to the election as you've been through, but you've also stepped in every possible and impossible way to issue construction permits on the highway. The other thing, you should know when to... You have to be, you've got a complete property-legal settlement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're getting rid of each other. But look, you're in power now, you have a little plot down in Selnica, so why don't you solve it, why don't you finish it? But I repeat, 2005 Give your colleague a lesson that she is not in the City Council of Great Gorica so she can behave as she behaves. [[Intruder President: Please don't talk from the bench, nice please.]] Well, I listened politely to Mrs. Fabiancic. [[Intruder President: Have you finished?]] It's hard to hear the arguments you know and it's hard to hear when you people are... They're laughing on the street. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's one more thing, and that's this $2 million sewerage in the Lower Turopoly of 148 million. Gorica didn't get them just because HDZ was in power, and as a local patriot, you had to make an effort to at least get 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16874	I'll make sure it's incompatible with the office of mayor and counsel. ... Thank you very much. [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] The next replica is the respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16875	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, for starters, I'm not from Gorica, so we're gonna put down some tension. ... And there's plenty of Personals, yes. [[You can't hear it.]] Dear Representative Shuker talked about public investment and we all expected, regardless of the color of the political uniform, that this government would succeed in these public investments so as to have such economic growth. Unfortunately, it's obvious that it didn't happen. Now that we're talking about capital investments and now that we're looking at budget implementation only for the Ministry of Health, I'm only talking about one sector of the entire ministry where the budget was 824 million. The execution is somewhere, not somewhere, but 22.1%. Thus, there was a budget of 230 million kuna. Now, like you said when you read it a little between the lines where it's a non-execution of that 230 million kuna. Look now. Capital aid within the general government, therefore capital investment unimplemented 20 million kuna. So, lack of public investment. Then we have further construction facilities, business facilities, facilities and equipment missing, or neutralised 160 million kuna. Then when you look further at the budget investment in computer programs, it's 60 million kuna. And when all of that, additional investment in construction facilities of 3 million and 230 000 kunas spent 19000 kunas and 0.61%, respectively. And now that we're back to the first page here, I'm going to end up with that, so the execution of 22%, and let's sum up the lack of capital investment, that's exactly 230 million kuna, as far as the lack of investment is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16876	Thank you, too. It's hard to sum things up like that. But the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16877	Yes, colleague Milinovic, that's what I was saying in the budget. So we are all aware of the situation in which the government is located and, above all, the Ministry of Finance for the simple reason that every minister would want to draw normal to be as successful as possible. The Minister of Finance has a certain framework. And now they have expenses that must be carried out. You can't tell people you won't pay them, you can't tell your kids you won't give them a child's allowance, you can't tell the pensioners that you won't give them a pension. But there are expenditures that can be slightly dissipated, and that happened in this budget execution so that the spending side is somewhere on an ideal 50%, and these investments in education, in health care, in equipment, in construction facilities where only 300 million and 700 million were spent from planned billion. And so, I understand here my colleagues at the Ministry of Finance. The logical thing is that they want to stick to their default frameworks. So that, I was in their skin, I totally understand them. And therefore, there's nothing controversial about it. I'm just a logical thing as an opposition representative trying to point out that reading of the budget between the lines without entering into details, nothing else. But I repeat, I told you about a school in Gorica, there's no colleague Fabiancic, so if I may say so, I'm joking a little bit. Well, we can have a little fun till 7:00 in the evening. But two workers have been holding a construction site for eight months just to keep that couple of million from being paid because they're just gone. You're gonna break the budget, no. And that redistribution within the 5% position will not be able to cover certain expenditures that, unfortunately, are higher. And there will certainly be certain works that will actually be transferred from 2011 to 2013 and paid accordingly. And that's not at all controversial. But that's why we're here to discuss it and point to some facts. The government for the good, we for the bad, and that's how it always goes, no. Therefore, there is no need for anger. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16878	Thank you. I could comment that we inherited the Canadian situation, the Canadian economy as you discuss it, and now we're going to stop the debate. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 because nine more hearings have been reported. At 9.30 tomorrow we will continue. The first to discuss is Honorable representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16879	Good morning. We continue to discuss the proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2012 and the proposal for a half-year report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2012. First up, colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16880	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Chief State Treasuryman, Honored colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I have to say in yesterday's part of the debate on this point about budgeting for the first semester of 2012, the opposition is that I'm going to say with an unhinged mockery about how the budget is well realized and how the foundation of that coalition government is convinced that it's very good in the country. But the truth is that the current government is very aware of the weight of the economic situation for which by the way the largest share is due precisely to those who are now smiling and who demean any positive shift. So we know that it's very difficult and the finance minister has made it very clear and unequivocal and confirmed when the macroeconomic conditions in which the half-year budget was met are described in the following words: "All that should grow and all that should fall is growing." What's supposed to grow? It was supposed to grow in production, export, investment, employment, citizens' standards. However, it all came to a fall. What was supposed to fall? Prices were supposed to fall, imports, responsibilities, unemployment, all unfortunately grew. And the country's most dramatic cumulative event or resulting from the country's poor economic opportunities is reflected in unemployment growth and employment decline. Of the 3 million 738 thousand working citizens of the Republic, only 44.6% work, so 45%. And that's the problem with all the problems. Too few working citizens are working, and the situation further worsens the fact that new jobs are not being created. And laborers last night, in their debate, said that what was worth being able to maintain a credit rating when there was no opening of new jobs. Of course, economic growth that will ensure that new jobs are precisely the goal of all objectives, but on the way to achieving these objectives, there are certain priorities. I remind the current government has inherited a budget deficit of 14 billion kuna or 5%. The five percentage deficit can also be an acceptable number, and it can also be a very dangerous figure all depends on the state of the national economy. So, the potent dynamic economy that it invests, which it exports and grows is not a problem or a significantly greater deficit and we know that we also have larger deficits in certain national economies. Namely, these economies know that this deficit will be able to cover the future growth, so the future new creation. But for a high-indebted state, which has no investment, where industrial production falls, where competitiveness falls, where exports are reduced and the external trade balance worsened, such a deficit is very dangerous because it leads to a reduction in credit ratings, to more expensive borrowing and ultimately to the Greek scenario. So it was necessary to go exactly as the current coalition government went. First of all, save the credit rating so that we don't increase our debt financing costs by several billion kunas. The condition for maintaining the credit rating was to reduce the budget deficit. Since the budget deficit could not be reduced by an increase in revenue, in 2012, the fourth year in 2012 was characterised by a decline in economic, or overall activity, and thus by budgetary revenues, the logical move was to reduce the budget expenditure to the level that the economy can bear. That is why the government has decided to reduce budget spending through a nominal reduction in the size of the state budget and a reduction in the size of the budget deficit. Of course, compared to the activities in this fiscal consolidation, the new investment cycle wants to stimulate economic growth and the opening of what is most important to us right now, so new jobs. And that's the formula. It's actually a formula right now, a survival formula. According to the report on the implementation of the State budget for the first half, this formula is also being implemented. As much as it's not dear to the critics on duty. In order to achieve this goal, the tax system has been amended and upgraded, so the gross labour price has been reduced since 1 May, so health contribution has been reduced from 15% to 13%, while taxing dividends and profit shares are encouraged by entrepreneurs to invest back in production, so investment activity is also stimulated. The transfer of tax burdens from labour to consumption, therefore to citizens, was made by increasing the VAT rate from 23% to 25%, and this was neither easy nor popular move at all, but it should be said that for the sake of amortising this tax coup and protecting the standards of those most vulnerable groups of citizens, at the same time reduced VAT rates from the existing 23 to 10% for certain life-saving foods, but also for the water delivery service. Also, in order to protect citizens' standards of 1 March, changes in the income tax system have been made in such a way that there is an increased personal deduction and that, for both workers and pensioners, some benefits have been significantly reduced, more precisely, the possibility of deducting pre-taxes related to the purchase of luxury vessels, aircraft, cars and goods for representation. What I must especially point out is that much has been done to strengthen tax discipline. As of 1 May, the payment of employees' salaries without previous payment of contributions was disabled. She also publishes a list of so-called. a list of tax debtors' shame, but on the other hand, giving entrepreneurs the opportunity to pay tax debt to 36 months or one time without heavy interest has further reduced the tax ejaculation we know to be terrible in Croatia and has improved the collection of tax revenues. More has been done to improve financial discipline, but since the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement, it has been adopted recently. Its effects will actually be visible by the end of the year or even better in the next financial year. All forward-listed changes in tax policy have conditionaled on a relatively good charge of the state budget despite the downturn in economic activity. It should be noted that by the end of the year, even better results are expected, as the first half is ever weaker in collecting budget revenues from the second half, i.e. the positive effects of the tourist season should further improve the situation in the national register by the end of the year. To conclude, budget revenues increased 3.5% thanks to VAT revenue growth, income from profit tax, and income from income tax. It is interesting that the revenues from the contributions have also increased, despite the fact that the reduction in the rate of health contribution has reduced budget revenues by around 200 million kuna. Obviously, the measures to prevent payouts without contributions not only compensated for this 200 million kuna deficit, but also contributed to the overall growth of revenue from contributions. Budgetary expenditures, on the other hand, have been reduced without reduced pensions, no child benefits, no family benefits, no unemployment benefits, and that is certainly a huge achievement in these conditions. And finally, what is most important at this point in the struggle to preserve the country's credit rating, the budget deficit has been reduced by 3 billion kuna. So the budget is being realized in the planned proportions, so for now, there's no need for rebalance at all. However, this achievement of the budget still does not mean that it is good in the country, we are aware of it, but it is certainly a good start to be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16881	Thank you, colleague Jelash. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica has a colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16882	Thank you very much. Well, I think you want to know that no one laughed yesterday, and no one laughs, I mean today in Croatia. And I think everyone's aware of the situation. But you can't help but feel what a smile and a running step to sign support for the unions to call a referendum, and that's what's going on in your head today, that was talked about here yesterday. And you can't say that today, what you were asked to do legally, you're breaking it across your knees today. So, by amending the Labour Act, no one has abolished anyone's rights, but has opened up the possibility that, in accordance with the new economic environment, the new situation caused by the global, economic and financial crisis, they are negotiating collective agreements and collective agreements rights signed in other times. You had no understanding at the time, and you laughed at the union attacks on the then government. So that's the fact that we simply can't escape, that was what was said yesterday. But I repeat, I think that today in Croatia after all these gatherings, after all this is happening to no one, there is no laughing. So nobody laughed about it, and when you talk about contributions, colleagues Jelash should know that it's a contribution, and you probably saw it coming, you know a lot about finances, so you probably lost it by accident. Contributions are reduced by 1.5. When you look at the effect for the first 8 or 9 months then you will see that the income from the health contribution is very visible, but also the expenditure side on what we warned yesterday that certain positions have not been made for the previous 9 months has grown significantly. And if I'm not fooled by memory, I think the expenditures in 8 or 9 months are 2 billion kunas bigger than they were last year. So this is a very serious topic, a very serious moment, and I don't think anyone can afford the luxury of even politicizing anything, but because of the memory and the consequences that are going to result from politically thoughtless moves at some point should simply be mentioned. I think that in 2009, when the situation was far more difficult, we should all have enough political courage to make some moves together.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16883	Thank you. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16884	Comrade Shuker, I'm glad you've changed the record today. It's safe, you were smiling yesterday, and everyone who was here last night knows it very well. As for the breakup of the collective agreement, he's one of the unpopular moves, we're not happy that we had to take him, but he's certainly our responsibility. I'm saying, I'm going back to it. To say that the situation is serious now, I fully agree that it is extremely serious for Croatian citizens above all. But I also have to tell you that according to some preliminary data on the implementation of the budget for the first nine months, the budget is very good. So you know that he should be at the level because it's a third quarter, at 75% level, so both income and expenditure are at 75% and that gives us a certain hope. And now I'm going to be a little bit more naughty, so I'm going to say, well, there's hope, and even you can't spoil as much as we can fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16885	Another replica of counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16886	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I have to do to replicate the honourable representative for her exposure. I think maybe it's better if you don't fix it this way. We're not better than just worse. But here's the part where you talked about raising VAT to 25%, 2% points, but on the other hand you cut fat, oils, etc. From 23 to 10, for water too. But what do we have in reality in practice? We pay the bills, we go to the store, we see what happens. Is the price of oil less than last year? It's not, it's even bigger. What happened? The merchants put their share in their pocket or in their income and the common man pays what he is. What about the water bills? They're twice as big as last year. What did the utility companies do? They've raised the price of water, we're paying bigger bills. And to make things worse here we have an announcement by Croatian Waters who will repay the debts of Croatian Waters? Same citizens again. What we've come up with now is that we're going to charge for the protection and delivery of water that are now somewhere on a level of 0.90 or 1kn raised by 1kn by 100% and we're going to pay even more in the future even bigger bills. But there's a story on the side we laugh, we mock, we have spins in HDZ, etc. Well that's reality, we need to talk here about reality and reality isn't what you're representing here today and it's the only thing for people I think is relevant today. Do they pay more, do they live more expensively and eat easier for them today than they did last year? I'm saying it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16887	The answer to the replica of my colleague, Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16888	A colleague of Boric, so VAT is a consumption tax, so it is somehow logical that those who spend more and more of that tax pay and pay in the state budget, and it is true that we have really reduced the VAT rate for those most frequent, most needed living supplies and for the delivery of water to those groups of Croatian citizens. And when you mention water, it actually turns out again and again when it comes to these increases in the price of water that you attack to actually defend yourself because the attack is always the best defense. So, the fact is that for years you haven't raised the prices of these infrastructure services, now unfortunately, the situation is such that it can't be higher than the price, and so you're still attacking to actually defend yourself for what you haven't done in previous periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16889	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's my colleague Ivanka Roksandić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16890	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I'm going to start my debate with what my colleague Jelish answered in this replica. We attack to defend ourselves. My colleague, there was nothing else to take but our debates and your discussions from last year on budgeting, with a half-year budget report and just hearing and reading what you were saying for 2011. and colleagues and colleagues in 2011 was also a crisis and break-in year. My colleague Shuker now said in Mrs. Jelash's replica what happened to the signing of that petition for a referendum because of a change in the work contract, and here's what we have. For years, I've been following up on an area that I'm kind of attached to, which is the area of education. What happened and what was announced this year in the 2012 budget? Education received 2.7% less than last year at the start, almost all of the items in the budget reduced your funding for education, we warned there was no planned funding for rights under the collective contract. Now I don't even ask whether the education will happen until 2000, when you left the government that inherited you a 1.3 billion debt, when after many negotiations with the social partners we gave up the lawsuit, I will remind you of all of us sitting here in 2004, and there are 70,000 deals, when we saved 530 million imagine how much school can be built for 530 million kuna. Now I know it's going to happen, because once the collective agreement is decided, it's no longer worth it. We are not unconscious, we are aware colleagues and colleagues of the economic situation that we should save. We cannot ignore how education and science are the key to every society's development, that teachers are underrated, that investment in education is not a cost, that quality education costs. We cannot ignore how the last years have increased the resources for education, that positive things have happened through education reforms, but we have neither been nor will we be satisfied with what is happening in education. These are all the words of your colleagues who have been discussing here for 4, 5 years. In 2008, in accordance with the government's policy and in agreement with the social partners, we found an increase in salaries in the education and science system, which would grow by 61% sometime since 2006 when such an agreement was signed by 2012. I'm going to show you this specifically on the teacher's salary at 15 years of internship is this some sort of average, so the man with the VSS 15-year internship in 2006 was getting about 4.5 thousand kuna. If everything was the way it was, I'd say it was all the way it was, that the situation was in the state, and until the last one. to this budget we raised regardless of the financial difficulties in the budget, it is well former Minister Shucker knows, the salary agreed on this year by the professor at 15 years of internships would have to get 7300 kuna, and now we have reduced the salary item with the constant threat that the number of public service employees will be reduced. Who are the nurses who were on the street yesterday and the teachers, who are cops and soldiers, whether we're going to cut it down or not. Three ministers cannot agree on their statements, will be laid off in public services or will not. Today I'm listening to news from my colleagues and colleagues, after yesterday's protest, they interviewed a professor. She says, my dear, why I'm on the road, I'm 37 years old, and last month I got 1200 kunas less pay, which is why I'm on the road. Teachers and teachers don't live on our tears, they don't live on the tears of the Prime Minister who said the first time possible they'll get it. They don't trust you anymore. They don't believe it because they know what happened in the budget. I'll remember the debate, and I'll quote one of my colleagues who, unfortunately, today can do something in the ministry where she works for the educators. I understand that the financial situation is difficult, but the salaries of teachers and teachers are given below the level of average salary in other public services, almost the average salary in the state, although it is exclusively highly educated or almost exclusively educated people, I end the quote. 2011 crisis year, when we also had difficulties in budgeting. Whether Minister Jovanovic, and in the 5th month, said if the salaries start falling, I will resign, there is nothing I can do, I can't fight for those people I represent, I will resign. You've cut your salary so dear to my colleagues, I'm sorry my colleague and Mr. Lalovac are sitting here, not sitting around with people from the resolution ministries who can answer some of our questions. I know you can't be the Ministry of Finance. Why did this happen in the plans, why did this happen, why did you accuse those responsible for education in the 9th month of the accountant that they were wrong in the salary calculation. We're looking for high standards in schools, I don't want to talk about salaries anymore, but I'm going to talk about what's important at school, and imagine you've reduced by about 360 million, but at the very beginning of decentralised functions you spent more than it was for the first six months, and you know what's going on in schools. The other day there was an International Teacher's Day, I was at a meeting of teachers, you know what a few principals told me, that they wouldn't have any more for chalk or sponges by the end of the year. What they got this year for decentralised functions has planned so much to have for electricity, for electricity, for water, and you know why else, the question of heating, because in Sisak schools will collect the heating by 37%. Here's your reality and that's your life. Also, when you see a half-year budget report for your colleagues and colleagues, you will see that the department for the Ministry of Science and Education has a number of items that are not expendable and that we have boasted so much about at the beginning of the budget. We've been boasting about the increase in addiction prevention items, imagine only 4,000 kunas have been spent. We've been so boasting about the funds we've increased to encourage outsiders, nothing's been spent. 1 million kunas for non-swimming training, nothing spent. For the equipment of libraries in primary and secondary schools planned 3.8 million kuna, nothing spent. I do not believe that all schools have been adapted to children and young people with disabilities, and even those 700,000 we planned for this need in the first 8 months, or 6 months, nothing spent. Schoolwork, a special story is schoolwork. You were planning on me saying I really believe now 100% believe for political reasons, for example the crafts school in Sisak I'm going to show it. A crafts school in Sisak 5 million kuna, no investment launched. I'm asking the question when will this school be subject, as long as it will be the subject of an election campaign. In 2006, she had a building permit, a space where she was built donated from the city of Sisak, 20 million kuna from the World Bank of Credits. We didn't start doing it, county school, because Mayor Lovric said something was wrong, so we're changing the project, which was certainly not true. You know when it came to the budget, in 2012, when you came to power. Nothing was done, the end of 2012 was 5 million kuna, it is impossible to spend 5 million kuna in two months and this winter month to build. The shovel isn't stuck for that school, I know when it's gonna be spent, somewhere in the spring of 2013 because local elections are starting. Here was the plan and the schoolwork. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, that's true. That's the truth we can't escape from. Why am I saying this, because everything we heard yesterday and today I agree, the policy of change in financial policy must be. It's a difficult situation, but I'd like to report on behalf of all my colleagues and colleagues, so don't spare on those who've always been spared. Read only the discussions between 2006 and 2011 so you will see what you said when you were an opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16891	Thank you, colleague, bring the end. Thank you very much. We have four replicas on your exhibit. First colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16892	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. counterpart Roksandic raised a question that probably both ministers and ministry colleagues thought would go a little undetected, which is decentralised funds. First, we need to know what they are for and that they are no matter of any political games, but first of all, the government has adopted minimum standards for what is financed from decentralised income tax funds. Therefore, with the aim that all schools have some equivalent standard throughout Croatia and, accordingly, to charge income tax on larger cities that have been given to management of primary and secondary schools and counties, that the difference between that share in income tax and what are really minimum standards. When adopting the budget, we warned that the amendments to the Income Tax Act would lead to changes in the tax classes and an increase in the non-taxable part of the unit with lower income status, so with the lower salaries of the unit of local self-government will have less revenue in the budget. And due to the increased income tax practically on all salaries above the 5.5 thousand kuna units of local self-government that have higher income tax will have higher income. You still planned less resources in the state budget and now what happens after six months? It was spent more than what was planned in six months. In the other six months, you can't spend less money. Schools will only spend more because months are coming when both heat and electricity consumption are higher, and it's gone worse. So you can't cut those expenses. And that's why we talked about why the deficit is far greater because when you look at eight months of budget execution, then you'll see that the expenditures are already slightly higher than in 2011 in the same period. And finally, let me say something else, we would be hypocritical, and we could only do one thing today on behalf of the HDZ Club to take your discussions on the 2008 budget, in 2009, when there was a far greater crisis then we would see what hypocrisy is, which is politics and what is not accepting real facts. And today we want to be constructive and we want to clearly discuss and warn problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16893	Thank you. Time's up. Replication response, colleague of the Rocksandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16894	Just one sentence. Ma colleague Shuker, that's what I said at the beginning just to take the debates from 2009 to 2012 to this budget. We shouldn't have said anything else, nothing else. And as far as the decentralised funds are concerned, you've explained it very well, but schools are buzzing, they're really real, schools aren't going to end of the year, and those schools that live in poorer parts won't have them for basic material expenses.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16895	Thank you very much. Second replica, colleague Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16896	Thank you. My colleague, Roksandić, you are talking about the truth, and the truth is that this government has begun to act in economic heat conditions, under the conditions of economic Hiroshima since the fall of the atomic bomb. That's what you left behind. You keep forgetting that. You can handle it with one mirror, like you're missing mirrors. Look in the mirror yourself and tell me we're the ones who left it to this authority. This budget took place for the first time with expenditures being nominally lower than the last year's budget, which was very brave. You're talking about the crisis as it was in 2011, and here were endless school discussions whether we were in crisis or not, so we didn't. There's honey and milk here, and someone in the suitcase brought the crisis, came in by plane. You've reproduced the crisis, first of all. You really remind me of, I'm talking about ex-government, and your current discussion, as a driver who got drunk, drove a bus, fell asleep, crashed, inside the victims as many passengers as you want. It's Croatia's broken heads, dead, wounded, and now that he wakes up, you say what kind of rescue services they are, nothing. Well, look at the doctor who doesn't work well. And it doesn't occur to him to ask himself who was driving the bus, and who fell into the wreck, and why was he figuratively drunk and irresponsible, why did he even sit behind the wheel when he couldn't drive?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16897	Replication response, colleague of the Rocksandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16898	Don't be so angry with your colleague Jurjevic. The truth is a little different. The truth is that you won the election, that you had Plan 21. That's true. The truth is that you have promised everything and the truth is that you lived in Croatia as I have. The truth is that you were sitting in this high house like all of us, and the truth is what we reminded you that you were talking about when you were making the budget. The truth is you didn't want to help your former government realize a lot of things that could have been better. The truth is, we didn't have repressive methods, so we didn't say the collective contract wasn't worth it. You don't have people to pay, you don't have a Christmas card, you don't. The truth is that we only wanted to change one single article in the Labour Act, and the truth is that you ran to Jelačić place to sign against that change. That's the truth that the Croatian public must know now, she knows, but must be reminded of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16899	Thank you. The Republic has a colleague, Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16900	Dear Vice-President Roksandić and other speakers from HDZ speak about hypocrisy and politics, so I would like to give a plastic example using Mr. Vedran Babic's representative question to show what hypocrisy is and what politics is. Well, I'll read the whole question. How much did it cost to open temporary works held on rented land in Sutlovac near Vrbovac on 27 April 2009 and which company did the same ceremony? In which amount and percentage of the total value of the works on the share in question were the works carried out in 2009 and according to the contract signed above? And third, in what amount and percentage of the total value of the works on the share in question are the works carried out in 2010? The answer is this, the service of the organisation of the opening of works on the A13 and A12 highways in question was done by FIMI MEDIA. And the price of the service in question was 280 thousand kuna without VAT. In 2010, no works were carried out on the section in question, i.e. there was no realisation of works under the contract of construction signed. It's facts and it's a pattern of behavior that brought us into this state, it's hypocrisy and it's politics. When you're talking about what's true and what's facts today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16901	Reply to the replica of my colleague, Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16902	Well, pal, your replica is real politics, you won't believe it, but it is. Something that has nothing to do with this budget, the question you've read is typical politics. I'll continue in this, too. You challenged me, how much did the opening of Zadar 2, get off the highway? The same question should be asked by me, just that and nothing else, so let's see what politics is about discussing the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16903	Thank you very much, dear colleague Roxandić. And the last replica of his colleague Marijan Škurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16904	Here's the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. First of all, I agree that, with the conclusion that changes in politics must be made, but we must agree on what changes are in politics. First of all, we need to be much more specific, much more efficient in some way. Why? Because the very amount of money given to someone does not guarantee that these funds will be effective and done. This means that we talked here that some budget funds for this part are being budgeted, and we see in particular what the budget was brought to us last year, where a lot of resources have been invested in some things absolutely no results anywhere. So, in this change, we must agree to efficiency. And here I would especially like to mention, colleagues of Roksandić you mentioned about education, school etc. and that decentralised asset. He wanted me to wonder where we live in Croatia. If we're talking about the north of Croatia, I'm just like the mayor, and I'm really visiting schools and congratulations to teachers and teachers their international day, but in the ambience where all these schools are in one shift, all these schools, every teacher has a laptop, every classroom has a projector, on the roofs are solar panels, each one has a hall and there's absolutely no conditions to say that they're hard, whether there's no means to work. We're funding all the extracurricular, extracurricular activities so we're taking care of it. So the question is that also these decentralised funds, especially in northern Croatia, were very missing but with these much less funds, please, I call you upstairs, come see how with such funds you're doing quite rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16905	Replication response, colleague of the Rocksandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16906	Thank you, colleague, for inviting me, I'd love to come, but I'll tell you something, you've found it very well, every school has a projector, it's got teaching aids, it's got teaching resources, and it's very well managed. But you need to know by now that you've been getting a lot more money for a minimum decentralised asset. You're wrong, you've won, look through this. These are secondly, do not mix European Union funds and decentralised funds. I know very well what decentralised funds are, you said it well. By 2012, you did it all, or most of you did it. I'm talking about continuing to maintain a material standard, and that's what I'm talking about, and that's what you're doing in one shift, so you're working on a colleague, here's an article: "The schools from the public private partnership will be held by banks and a bankruptcy manager." Is a colleague it will only be a problem, when banks start maintaining schools, because the company that has built all schools in Varazdin through a public-private partnership on the verge of bankruptcy in ruin. That's just gonna be a problem, not yet this year, but you'll see a year when a bank or a bankruptcy manager gets, every honor from a county fund for those schools, but it won't give them those funds. So how's a fellow school gonna change a light bulb, how if a water pipe breaks, I'm actually saying some things of life, not something that's in the fog, what's the school gonna call? A bankruptcy manager, a Hypo bank to change his light bulb or something? Is he not going to have the funds, that's the problem, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16907	Thank you very much. Next in an individual debate, counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16908	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members. Well, here, I'll also start my discussion with a review of yesterday, because a young colleague on the left told us, i.e. He told us yesterday that we at HDZ are dealing with spins, and that you on the left are working hard as bees 24 hours a day to save this country. Here I have to say that I, and my debate right now will be in that part, I will try to make it as beautiful as I can with regard to what we have as a report. However, before I begin, I must say that it has become worrying to me personally, both as a citizen and as a representative, that we have begun, that we have become a nation that praises failures and celebrates defeats. It's a fact, it's seen and day-to-day, and I just don't know where it's going to lead us. Because when we contain the BD minus, the BVD minus, it's during HDZ authorities to express failure and disaster, and during the SDP government it's a huge success. So when we do or the former government makes some small growth, it's a disaster, but minus 2, minus 3, minus 1.5, it's already become a bookie, it's going to be a great success of this government. And I can't help thinking that it's not meant to be, that it's not deliberately staged, but since the start of this government's mandate, to justify the bad beginnings. the non-compliance within the system of the state itself and the Government which manages it in the executive part with that State. As a party, we were constructive already at the beginning of this government's mandate and in the debate on the budget, we warned of several important items that we felt should be fixed that they would not be enough to maintain that part of the system to which this was concerned and that this government would have to fix its budget. However, what was the response of the authorities at that time when the budget was made? It's a good budget, he won't experience changes, there's no budget rebalances, this is the default framework, we all have to put ourselves in that frame, you can't get out of these frames anymore. What were the most important messages? We'll spread the economy, boost investment, reform the tax system, reduce the deficit. No more life on debt, we won't be in debt. What did the Prime Minister say at his first speech in the Parliament? We're not gonna take it out on what it was. That's what he said. Those were the historical sayings that we had the chance to listen to, we're not gonna take it out on what was. And what have we got in those last eight months? Indeed, the economy has been disbursed. Two billion says Slavko Linic we freed you in part of your health contributions and then the shouting of the businessmen began. Why aren't you investing? We've freed you two billion, we've encouraged you, we've reduced your labour price. What are you waiting for? But the businessmen don't react, something happened. We've got problems. Where do we have a problem? At the local level. The state is detached from the local level, not accepted. So where do the businessmen invest? At the local level. There are obstacles. Maybe in the tax system. The VAT rose through tax reform to 25%. Here we are listening here. It's a tough decision. However, the fact is that with this decision we have become the most expensive state in the region, we are right behind Hungary's almost feathers. So who wants to invest in the most expensive country in the region? Rare, just brave. What do we have for the score? 2 billion or I don't know 5.6% more than we see now in this report, but we have reduced consumption. The malls are empty, people go to the store rarely, no more money than they had last year. It's hard for them. What hit us next? The price of gasoline, oil derivatives. Record prices, almost 2 kunas more than last year. That's not small. 2 kunas it's on one thin 100 kuna. I explained the cost structure of excise duties and the price of oil derivatives 50-50 recently. State 50 through excise duties, the very price of the derivatives 50%. What do we have for the score? Reduced excise revenues on oil derivatives, 400 thousand vehicles less on highways, and excise duties on tobacco products. What can we conclude after eight months and this report? Apparently, Croats drive less and more smoke. I don't want to go on about the pillar of shame about these tax reforms, the reorganisation of tax administrations, etc. Let me talk about the investment cycle 'cause I don't have much time. I was talking here when we discussed the investment laws here, about the public-private partnership that there's something missing, that it's not good, that the investment cycle that was announced bombically in the 2nd month has nothing. And it really is. The first vice president himself said if we don't start our investments in the 9th month, I'm leaving. Of course, it's been nine months, the first vice president is here, there's no investment. We've contracted out of all these massive investments two facades, two. We've arranged two facades. It's not that small. We warned you about some items within the budget that were already insufficient when you proposed them, so here's what I'm going to say about the island road program. You left 18 million $400,000, and before those previous years that item was always over 100 and something million. Let's look at the execution in 6 months 137 million kuna in that item, let's say 10 times as much as allowed. What happened? How is that even possible? You're 18.5, and you spend 137, and then we're saying there's no rebalancing. There will be rebalancing because if you're looking well at those things that go 20 or 10 or several times more there's at least 30 that I've looked at in the budget. What do we have from two ministries that may be the most important for the investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia? Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of the Sea, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Economy. Look at their achievements, Ministry of Regional Development 30%, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs or 40% even though it's mostly only transfers and the Ministry of Economy at least. And we're talking about investment. There are 500m-euro ministers going somewhere, so I don't know about LNG 500m euros, so we're going to gas pipelines 300m euros, and we're going to go to Plomin 700m euros and there's nothing. These are stories of the future, fictions that have the task of convincing people that what I said at the beginning that this increase is a great success. For me, personal defeat is defeat and it is necessary to strive to win another game, but we gentlemen are constantly losing games and celebrating exactly what we lost. And now for a little bit on this report, one more piece. I'm personally experiencing him as well as that excerpt from the current account you get from your bank... You bought 10 products for 10 wars, you'll get in that current excerpt of one war in six months, but that whole amount comes throughout the year. [[You don't understand.]] We used to book, so we wrote down something that belonged to us, and something that didn't pass, we didn't, and they're warning us about a number of items in this budget. And I know that we've recently opened and there's a pool on the island of Korčula, 10 million kuna is planned, a 0 kuna achievement. Is it possible to open that pool without spending the 10 million that should have been paid? Of course they're spent. We have a hall in Zadar Vishnik, 11 million kuna, nothing paid, a deficit smaller, and the account stands in the Ministry of Finance. Well, of course, then the deficit, of course, isn't big. And the story of the Adriatic Islands' water supply. People rebel, we have no water, budget item 13 million, the ministry says we've arranged everything, there's no money, and now we see 500 000 kuna in six months. Well, of course we can only talk about the report that way...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16909	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16910	Let me just finish. And indeed, this government has made every effort to make that one saying that is constantly used in the campaign and by politicians, that the state should be the service of the citizens, it has turned it around. Citizens have become the service of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16911	Please stick to the time, almost all half to one minute you're overdoing a 10-minute debate. We have six replicas on your exhibit. The first is colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16912	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Since I haven't been here, I'd like to congratulate you on this new duty. Dear Boris, since you are from this coastal area here when I was in Brussels reading there on the websites that will be built or invested in the thermal power plant, the heat of Rijeka and that on gas. Well, I'm surprised it's going to be on the gas when these coal ships arrive in Plomin, so it's very close, I'm surprised it won't be on such a cost-effective energy as coal and as pure technology as coal. I really don't understand that there's no big boat coming from Brazil or Africa with coal to supply both Plomin and Rijeka, it's really very close. But there's some kind of investment going towards a gas energy plant for Termoelectrica Rijeka that suddenly appears again as some kind of investment facility we've never heard of before. But not a word further about some hydropower plant on the Sava River or Drava that was in projects and years earlier or even decades ago. One of them is Osijek’s hydropower plant, and there is not a single word about it, although water is much cleaner than gas, especially coal. You also talked about how this government changed part of the tax system, but from the businessmen I spoke to one told me so. Which is why Mr. Holland, the President of France raises profits in France to 75%, depending on the amount of profits. Which is why we have this percentage stagnating and standing on the 25%, and the huge money is being carried out from Croatia just by the way of obtaining banks and not by all others.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16913	Thank you very much. My colleague's out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16914	Banks that from our savings, our citizens dictate loans to the economy of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16915	Replication response, fellow Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16916	Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16917	Comrade, your time is up. Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16918	I agree with you in part of this debate when you were talking about Plomin and that new gas thermo power plant. I'm glad to at least say that in this region of mine that I come from, so Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County, that at least we get something from these investment projects and we really have three ministers, we actually had three ministers here at the beginning of the government, now there are two, I'm afraid we don't stay on one, and there's nothing going on in that region. More Mr. Cain apparently made there in that part of Istria when he managed to change even the energy from coal gas just because that coalition agreement or that relationship between these parties survived, but the fact is that there is also a problem. The people in Labin disagree with such a project and that is what I said the state is doing, it announces, but the problem is in the local community. And the prime minister had to go to this Labin to explain to people what the interest of this country was, and so it will be until the mechanisms are found in how these big investment projects really work. I say, in my county it's not good, the construction of the river has gone away for the last 20 years over 40,000 people. Only for them 10 years of SDP's government 15 grand. Over 30,000 jobs have been lost and the mayor of Rijeka wonders that his budget with a billion fell to 600, 700 million kuna. Well, there aren't any of those people who'll pay more for the big bucks. They are gone, they have disappeared, they have gone to other countries or other areas of the Republic of Croatia. It's our product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16919	Thank you very much. Next replica, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16920	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Boric, we hear here all the time that the budget is well charged, but it is also to be said that the budget has fallen on whose coat of arms if we know that more than 400,000 employees in Croatia are not in tax markets, so they do not pay taxes because with one or two dependent family members their salary is not enough to pay that minimum income tax rate. Therefore, a 25% VAT increase of 25% fell largely on the back of Croatian citizens. And this charge in the budget was paid most by Croatian citizens on the basis of VAT. And let's not say that they pay the most for those who are the richest. They don't care what VAT they'll pay anyway. However, when we look at a family basket, then we need to see what is inside and how much energy and these products have been collected over the past six months, we can speak when in 9 months this situation is much worse and this is the result of this good charge of the budget as regards here with the basis of VAT. Because look, you have to pay for the electricity, you have to pay for the gas, you have to pay for the heating, and to that heat, to an increase of 27% you have increased the VAT rate and this has increased so much so that this increase goes quite high. So, the final result at the end of the year is no matter how much higher VAT income, whether it will be more than 2.5 billion or 3 billion will be at the expense of Croatian citizens. All alleged investment from public companies will be at the expense of Croatian citizens because both HEP and Toplining and Plinara and companies dealing with the sale of oil derivatives pay more and more again in the finality of Croatian citizens. Because we can't forget that entrepreneurs don't care how much their price is a liter of gasoline, how much their price is, what their price is, because in the calculation, it ultimately affects
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16921	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16922	Here's another sentence, please. It affects the price of products that are ultimately paid by Croatian citizens. Therefore, this is a policy that exclusively strikes on the back and on the pocket of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16923	I'm asking you nicely for a replica and the reply to the replica lasts for two minutes. A fellow Shucker 2 minutes and 22 seconds, before that and more. Replication response, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16924	I agree, it's really all that, so I think the expected fall on the back of Croatian citizens. But they weren't ready for it. They were presented with Plan 21 in an election campaign, suggesting they had to have a plan for a new day each day. Their plan for a new day is from today to tomorrow how to survive, how to eat, how to satisfy the basic biological needs because the pressures of all givings have become too great. At least 5, 6, 7 bills enter the house every month. I've talked about how much. We could've freed them at least part of those fees, unfounded fees they'd been paid. You don't want to, you just don't want to. Let's all pay these citizens, and we'll say here we can go left, right, we're laughing, you're serious, you work etc. But people expect solutions from us. This execution of the budget is a statement of information. It is complex to announce some success, however, I fear that given the situation and the indicators that this success will still fall short. And if she was the former government that was so challenged, does she remember today any of that guy's name was Pernar? Ivan Pernar? He yelled with a megaphone all over Croatia, it's no good. He's gone, and today is worse than last year. Are we gonna agree that it's worse than last year? I think we'll agree. So again these citizens and they feel cheated and that's why they were out yesterday. And since this cage is already standing here every day and I guess next year it'll be here every day. Unfortunately, we're not happy about it, and I'm still saying it's a task for both of us in the opposition and you in power to do our best, but we need to talk, we're not here to keep our mouths shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16925	Thank you very much. Next replica Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16926	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you said good colleague Boris that Prime Minister Milanovic in this assembly said he wouldn't look back, but I think he used that favorite Latin proverb hit Rhodus hit salt, which would mean around here in Croatia is Croatia let's show what we know and what we can do. What you did not say to your colleague, Boric, is that most Croatian citizens believed Plan 21 would be better and that it would live better and that the economy would finally get better. However, what is a fact, which is that at the beginning of this year, we warned you about what the tax increase will bring to Croatia, and it was just after we finally started coming out of the economic crisis last year. If you followed the Presidential debate in America, then you could notice that about half the debate was almost debated not whether raising taxes would cost jobs, i.e. growing unemployment or falling employment, but how much the growth of taxes would affect the growth of unemployment, i.e. a reduction in job creation. I must remind you that for the past 12 years, the Croatian economy has mostly grown on debt, so on loans, and by expensive interest, and it is logical, I hope that we will agree, that what you did or thought could be done in 2000 to 2003 with 2 to 3 times the debt per capita in both the economy and the state debt line after 12 years, these tools will no longer produce the same results. Finally, I think that the most important result of success, i.e. the failure of an economic policy, is unemployment, i.e. employment. I'm afraid if we don't change direction in this economic policy, we're going to fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16927	Thank you very much. Replication response, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16928	I agree. Here, yesterday was the number 317 thousand and something that I managed to look at, and two days ago I warned that one estraced star when HDZ was in power in 3 months 2010 and the prime minister was here, the former prime minister, then the SDP club took that number for its phone number. Of course, after 10 days there was also a reaction from a famous estrace star who today has obviously some of her problems she put it as a brooch 317 625. Here was the number yesterday I called her so put that number back on he's still current regardless of the change of power, of what we've changed power etc. But the fact is that we're doing worse and that what I told Mr. Mrsić we'll be recording 340 grand in 12 months, if not before. Which will be a record then, because this year we had 343 grand in February. That's the basic problem. We scared the entrepreneurs, we raised taxes, but we continue the property tax announced. In my campaign, when we had an election campaign, I warned the entire coast and the islands had extra living space, which activates seasonally for 4 to 5 months, if it's lucky. What's going to happen to that space? It's a surplus living space, if we're going to hit those people at the value of these properties who are now paying a utility fee for their house of 200, 300 square meters at a level of 1500, 2000 kuna per year, whether they will pay 10000 or 15000 kuna in the following year, since their house is worth none of them under 100, 200 thousand euros. What do we do with that space? What will those people here in Zagreb, in other parts that have real estate, that's our wealth, we have real estate that's a fact. What do we do with unprocessed surfaces and these are real estates, etc. It's not simple stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16929	Thank you very much. Next replica, colleague Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16930	You keep telling the story that the burden of fiscal consolidation has been transferred to the back of citizens, which is true. Unfortunately, only our citizens can resuscitate their own country, no one else can. Today you are very sensitive to the difficulties of citizens, and you would have been far, far more credible if you had been so sensitive at those times when you were borrowing these same citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16931	Reply to the replica of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16932	Thank you very much. So said one of your ministers, not the Deputy Prime Minister, when we were just in that campaign, he said, "If I said what we were going to do, no one would vote for us." And we see it today, he did not lie, but the Croatian people believed in your intentions that were so media with certain activities, posters and everything else looked good. But today they see that they bought a bad product, that's a fact, you don't have to be mad at it. We're in opposition, it's our job to talk, so I don't say people chose us to keep our mouths shut and to warn, to try to help. So we try, we always offer solutions. Here's the power finally some of our amendments and accepted. Well, this debate is well-intentioned, too, but I say by discussing this report to the Croatian people it won't be better. The data of the current government's pasture are listed here, not all invoices that have certainly come for collection and are not entered into this report and will have to be introduced by the end of the year. The Minister himself, i.e. The deputy minister said yesterday we'll see what it looked like at the budget. In maybe 5.6 months, this is going to look different, maybe worse, maybe better, maybe really us in HDZ, as the SDP colleague says, but your job is to work hard and maybe try something and listen because we're also kind of like people who we've been in power and we know how to do something. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16933	Thank you very much. Next replica of counterpart Mladen Marelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16934	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague, Boric, I was challenged by your discussion that the pool in Korčula is open without writing about 10 million. Mr. Boric, the pool is open in 9 months, and this is the budget for the first 6 months and I can tell you, and it hasn't been charged yet, and everyone has been sent yet. So you guys are doing it from experience, because you knew how you used to do it, you were marketing one thing, and you were selling the fog the other. And I think you're using spins and it's really not the time to lecture us here on behavior. Slowly get down to the ground and cover your head because you left the state in such good shape that we could really throw ourselves around here with investments, with all the programs. I mean, the situation is such that it's horrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16935	Reply to the replica of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16936	If it hadn't been for HDZ, Mr. Marelic, you'd never have a pool in Korčula. There are now water politicians, our swimmer I see Mario Todorovic says I've never been better trained. And it cost 40 million kuna, and I in my town, in my county I have one pool that costs 400 million kuna, not much bigger than that believe me. And they are pleased, and you are dissatisfied. Both SDP and Rijeka, as well as SDP in Korčula. And that pool I say, it's yours, it should be pride, it bears the name of one of your distinguished citizens. And what's not registered, so I'm saying it's because it didn't fit at that time. Because if we're going to put everything that's come to the checkout, and it hasn't gone through this booking deficit, it'd be bigger gentlemen. And we say it neatly and that we have to hide behind it. And really, I say I'd be happy to have a pool like that on my island, and he's obviously become a burden to you because HDZ started it, that he's made decisions to build it there and that it's managed to bring it to an end. Unfortunately we haven't been able to open it that you did, and I'm glad that you are, because these young people, these kids today have a place to swim, have a place to spend their free time, sport can work, and Korcula is certainly richer with it than it would be if that same pool were gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16937	And the last replica, colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16938	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You said exactly that the first Deputy Prime Minister announced his resignation in the fall of this year unless the investments began to be realised. However, you failed to say that he announced the same thing for spring this year, so after a few months, unless investment starts in Croatia and their programme begins to be realised that they will resign by summer. So you are failing to say this but here we remind you once again and you and Croatian citizens but quite certainly that such a scenario will be repeated from month to month because it is definitely that their investments cannot be realised is the way they are trying to realize it is invaluable. As far as the deficit and credit rating of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it should be very clear that only what holds us above the surface of the drowning is the fact that Croatia will become a full member of the EU next year, and for this is not due to this government, nor do I dare say those people who are sitting in ruling benches now, but only the burden of negotiations and all that, the whole process of Croatia's walk towards the EU has submitted HDZ with their partners. And only that fact of the EU's perspective keeps Croatia above the level of drowning. Therefore, I ask you to make sure that the drowning does not take place and that all obligations are met so that we do not have to get pucks in Brussels so that we do not respect what is agreed. As for the pool in Korčula, of course it is clear to the corculans that there would have been no swimming pool if it hadn't been for HDZ, there you are absolutely right but surely those who swim in the pool today are very well aware and thanks to their colleagues Bačić and all those who supported the project in HDZ. The project has been realized today, otherwise the rest would not have been realised either.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16939	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16940	Well, I'm just going to do this part about the resignation, I mean, I didn't want to talk about it because it doesn't have much to do with the budget report in six months. But I personally feel that giving these ministers their resignations is a kind of fetish. As soon as someone sets him up with a reporter, what's called a microphone or what's to be said, the minister immediately offers his resignation. Here the day before yesterday, Minister Matic also said if I don't do this to him, I'll resign immediately, and when they don't, then the resignation is no longer valid. So then I say the first vice president will resign at the 9th month, last 9th month, no resignation. Minister Jovanovic said if I were to be relieved of my deputy and my salaries dropped, I would resign, and he said the other day I would not resign now, which I will resign, he has changed his mind, which he will resign. And now I'm saying here's the third minister already announced the resignation question is I say the time only when he'll get to that situation that he needs but then he'll say no. I think it's quite inconclusive to the Croatian public and that it paints some kind of character of this government and the way they even experience people who trust them to lead this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16941	Thank you very much. We return to the topic after these replicas, the next ten-minute debate of colleagues Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16942	... and perhaps earlier today's debate on the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months of this year would have been good if we had looked at the video archive of the Croatian Parliament and remembered how and in what atmosphere the budgets for 2009, 2010, or the reports of the implementation of these budgets were adopted, and we would have remembered how and how constructive the approach of the resistance now ruling when the bags of potatoes and different fruits were here, the head of the cabbage, if you remember, etc. The kid, etc. Therefore, we remember when MPs at that time surrounded the presidential table when they beat on the benches and did not allow the debate to continue, etc. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] What am I saying? I would like to say that HDZ and we from the HDZ Club in this debate that we do not comment on the difficult economic situation, however, we want to be absolutely constructive and I think that both the Deputy Minister and the Minister of Finance will agree that in the important laws that are part of the HDZ programme, HDZ participates, proposes and endorses these laws. Therefore, far from looking forward to the difficult economic situation, we want to be constructive and this is also evidence of these discussions that we are discussing today. Let us only remember the respected colleagues and colleagues as the debate took place and what the SDP Club was doing when we proposed the law... the crisis tax, and this crisis tax was a sweet guide compared to the increase in value added tax rates from 23 to 25 because of the 2 million potential taxpayers of paying that crisis tax of 600 were released without saying how much less they gave to the state budget on the basis of the introduction of that crisis tax which was later sued by the Constitutional Court and supported the Government of the Republic. But that's what it's all about. I'm gonna go back a little bit now to discuss the report on the implementation of the state budget. In fact, the fact that revenues from the same period last year were increased by 3.5% but we must be aware that this increase occurred not because of an increase in production, not because of new investments, but because of the fact that an increased value added tax rate was increased from 23% to 25% and that this was one of the main reasons that enabled the increase in the revenues of the state budget, despite the fact that an additional reason and the fact that a change in the payment rate was made and cannot be paid without payment of the contributions. It's also in the context of this report and that's exactly what I'm saying. Therefore, the revenues were achieved in a way that a new tax premium had occurred on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and this resulted in an increase in revenues in the state budget. But it concerns something else, concerns that expenditures are carried out in the planned sizes, but there is a lack of investment that is based on the state budget. Therefore, the fact is that we at the HDZ Club are the public defender when the state budget was adopted in February of this year said that the amounts were sub-cated, that the amounts for salaries were not determined in exact sizes, especially in those ministries that numbered a large number of employees. So when you look a little bit better and analyze the implementation of the state budget, then you will see that the plan has been transferred to the ministries that largely provides their resources for the settlement of the salaries of their employees. As the Ministry of Finance index is 67.43, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs index is 56.83, Ministry of Justice 52.34, Ministry of Interior 51.6, Ministry of Health 51.3, Ministry of Science 51.2. Therefore, those ministries that must provide huge amounts for salaries have transferred 50% of what the budget should be in the first 6 months, and those ministries that should carry out investments, which should enable capital projects, investments, and thus employment. These ministries have drastically failed to implement the state budget, such as the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, are clearly not paid subsidies, such as the Ministry of Regional Development, which should boost the development of the Republic of Croatia only 35%, the Ministry of Civil Engineering 31%, the Ministry of Environment 15.1%. So this is the best indication that those ministries that should carry the investments, which should have achieved those famous investment tsunamis announced by the Deputy Prime Minister, absolutely failed, failed their plans, not because their projects were not left behind, we will say something about that later on, for example, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but simply for not being allowed to do so, because then, in those positions, there would be a huge spending of funds and then the deficit of the state budget would be not 5, 6 but it would be 8 or 9 billion so that the investment in the Croatian roads was not made, and I said which ministries and their investments did not make. For example, I would like to tell you the Ministry of Environmental Protection that had built permits, which had selected performers for the two largest waste management centres in the Republic of Croatia that have been prepared so far, is a waste management centre in Istria Kastijun and Marinščina in the Primorje-Gorski County. Of the planned 77 million kunas planned in February, only 400,000 kunas were implemented during the year when these projects were to be realised. It is a similar situation with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure where Croatian roads and administrations have practically stopped all major projects. These projects are practically not implemented in any part of Croatia, but I will look back at Dubrovnik-Neretva County where all important, capital, strategic projects for Dubrovnik-Neretva County have been stopped. So it gave up, it is not known at all when and how Dubrovnik will be connected to the highway network, so it gave up the highway from down to.... The construction of the highway from Vrgorec to Ploč has been stopped, should have been completed by the beginning of this tourist season, the question of which tourist season this road will be completed in the first place because everything there is concerned, preserved, practically stopped works. Most Pelješac, we have said about it many times already, we have many times, I really don't know when this bridge, what the fate of that bridge is, because we hear that the European Commission is no longer seriously considering it, that we are already considering other possibilities as well as how to connect the far south of Croatia, to get it out of traffic isolation. Not to say that the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Centre for Waste Management in Dubrovnik-Neretva County... a period that has already been in the high stage of realisation has stopped without any further explanations, we do not know how the waste issue in Dubrovnik-Neretva County will be resolved, and we have taken over as a state obligation to resuscitate and close all open dumps and to build county or regional waste management centres in the Republic of Croatia by 2018. An investment has been stopped that already had a determined, selected performer in Veli Luka on the construction of a passenger terminal, etc., etc. So what I'm saying is that all those investments that were to start production, which should have been employed by workers, who were supposed to strengthen the fallen construction sector in the Republic of Croatia, have stopped, the ministries mainly fulfil their current obligations, such as salaries, pensions, etc., etc. And so it is true that the deficit of the state budget for this reason is as it is, therefore within the limits of what is expected, somewhat smaller than what is planned, but this is the result in the first order because all investments really cost. And if that's how we heard it from yesterday's government session that we're very likely, Mr. Deputy, although at first you said that this year will be without the rebalance of the state budget, we're very likely for the reason I cited...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16943	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16944	He expects a rebalance of the state budget at 11 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16945	Comrade Bačić, you have eight replicas on your display. He's his first colleague, Darko Milinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16946	Thank you very much. Well, counterpart Bacic noticed that real investment was made and he also mentioned in the Ministry of Health that the deficit of this budget would be much higher. But he also mentioned well the wages where each position here at the Ministry of Health exceeded, that is, the second half of the year. Here I will just point out that for the Ministry of Health, therefore for the employees there are not health workers but only those who are employed in the Ministry of Health exceed the amount of salaries of one million and 217 thousand kuna, and monthly it takes 4 million kuna. Which means that at 12 months, it will be in the position of missing 4 million kunas, i.e. that there will be an inability to pay salaries for employees in the Ministry of Health. Also HZZO that has exceeded the limit of 12 million kuna for HZZO employees, and there each month needs 14.5 million kuna. Which also means that there could be a problem at the 12th month, i.e. there is no funds to pay the salaries. The lack of investment, and I think the health sector is very important, as well as for the economic progress or economic recovery of the lack of public, i.e. investment in the Ministry of Health is one-off 230 million kunas that were scheduled for the first 6 months. It's stopped. Some of the items are not realized, we'll say one of the 0.16%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16947	Replication response, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16948	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, when we were making the state budget, my colleague Milinović had over 20 amendments to the Ministry of Health, because you were also talking about how the funds for the normal functioning of this portfolio would be missing, a very important portfolio, and at that time, the more the Croatian Parliament passed a law that reduced the contribution rate for health insurance, which left the sector with over 2 billion kuna, i.e. 2 billion kuna, and we heard 200 million kuna per month. We were at the time when the budget was being passed, remember the HDZ Club had its amendment, in which we found that the pay positions would lack a significant amount of funds and that this would be the reason why the government would have to reach for the rebalance of the state budget and what it has now heard and announced. In fact, so much resources will be missing that it is not possible by redistributing within the ministries to compensate for the lack of funds for salaries because they are largely in spite of the fact that I say suspended investments and that the funds that were intended to invest in the Republic of Croatia are largely rerouted to those obligations that are ongoing, which must be implemented, which are salaries, these are pensions, these are social benefits, children's allowances, etc. Therefore, what we have announced when we adopt the budget is that the expenditure of the state budget is not planned in sufficient amounts. Here, unfortunately, they come true. And on the one hand, we are witnessing a halt to investment so that those obligations to employees to citizens who are dependent on the state budget should be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16949	Thank you very much. The next replica of counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16950	Thank you very much. So here I am going to complete the presentation with my replica by Mr. Bačić in the part where he talked about how in some way policy has banned public enterprises from achieving their business plans, and here I really think it stands because when we watch the execution of Croatian waters plan a billion and 976, the achievement of 732. Somewhere a little over 40%. Croatian roads, plan a billion and 450, achievement below 50%, about 650 million. Environmental protection fund a billion and 200 plans, execution of 455 million. And what do we have at the 9th month? The Croatian Ministry of Agriculture of Water is calling for 200, 300 directors of municipal companies we are going to sign now contracts to implement the plan of Croatian Waters. Indeed, these people, of course, well-intentioned, and that's good, but the question is why we didn't do it in the third month, in the second month, so that these people have a normal time to realize it the way it should be done under the law to conduct public procurement, to make those investments so that when it comes to the charge, they get paid to do the same thing. Here I am looking at the Ministry of the Sea, a recovery plan, and we have one position of maintaining the port of county significance about the upgrade of the port of county meaning 26.5 million, these are very important money for port administrations for our counties. We have a 2 million kuna, and already here is the 10th month, and I'm afraid that those of us who have launched a very important project, which is the restoration of all ports and ports important in the public-line maritime transport system, have simply stopped with all these projects, and I know that the projects have them because the directors are asking, praying, godfathers to come up with some kind of means to create something. Here, I think that should have been complemented and that people just need to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16951	Replication response, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16952	Thank you, Madam President. So, my colleague, Boric, I said that neither Croatian roads nor Croatian waters had implemented all plans closely for the first 6 months, and you are asking why they were only now on their way even though they had a project documentation why they were only now starting the competitions? Well, that was clear to all of us, that it all started at 1 month, in 2 months, in 3 months, already if there were first situations, first invoices, that would already have created additional commitments to the state budget. This way, when you start the competitions somewhere there at 7, 8 months very little funds come to charge during that year, so that in those positions only a partial plan for 2012 will be implemented by the end of the year. Yesterday we heard in the debate, here is when you mentioned a fund for environmental protection which has really very small amounts of funds delivered to different projects that were already almost at the stage of implementation. A colleague, Holly, said the past government has very ambitiously accepted certain commitments that put huge financial commitments before the Republic of Croatia by the end of 2018. Well, they weren't, we weren't very ambitious to accept these obligations, but we saw them very realistically, and I'm also on that trail of memory and Kastion, so for the waste management centre, which is already needed to be in the realization phase. So I mentioned earlier and the county waste management centre in your county, Marinscino, nothing was done there, even though the performer was established, although there was a need for documentation. Not to say in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where we've already been practically and done an environmental impact study and now it all fits together. What am I saying? That investments are practically stopped in this way and will not be realised by the end of the year, or a very small number of these investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16953	Thank you very much. Next replica of counterpart Mladen Marelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16954	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bacic, however, abused this pay phone with incorrect things. And for one thing, he talked about the Ploche-Dubrovnik highway and still. I can tell you in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County from Ploč to the border with Montenegro, Peljesac has no technical documentation on that road. They've been doing it for 8 years, so far there's no technical documentation because it's from the Croatian roads you can see today. Apart from the Orebic bypass, someone is a bit of a short stock. Next, the worse bridge, 05.06.2010, closed works on the bridge, why they didn't start, let them ask themselves, they knew they didn't have the funds. As for the fact that the construction of the waste management centre has been stopped, Mr. Bacic does not know, and should know that in 11 months the former government refused the programme, when the environmental impact was due to the location of the centre where the water was located. So that's where it has to stop, it hasn't got a passing grade. The following, last week, delegations, or Wednesday this one, were with ministers and representatives of the county, and cities in the Dubrova-Neretva County do not hide, it is also found. That they still have no papers to start construction and that's where it's only questionable to build it. So the city of Dubrovnik is already giving a new solution to this, and there it is, in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, not harmonised even though they accepted it all in the spatial sense. So someone else had to do it a long time ago, and now in a few months it's working on it, and I think there's going to be a common solution because they've been with the minister, he's received them, and that delegation has arranged it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16955	Thank you very much. A reply to Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16956	Yes, it's very strange for my colleague, Marelic, that I didn't know that I didn't know the state of things with the county waste management center. I was a minister at the time, when we formed a committee to assess environmental impact studies. And we didn't say it wasn't a location, but it was ordered the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvania to do hydrogeological work that would show if the location... The period falls within 3 or 4 sanitary protection zones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it belongs to 3 according to the Croatian Waters Regulation then it is questionable that location, if it belongs to 4 it is possible to build a centre there. The county made the procedure, determined the performer, and then the ministry ordered that it would not be made, neither would the location, whether it was 3 or 4 not similar to building a regional centre. And to be an even more tragic situation, at the same time the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska according to the Ministry of Environmental Protection should determine whether the site belongs to a 3 or 4 zone in order to then decide on its, uh, construction of the centre. And at the same time in Zadar County, which I am very pleased to see, allows me to build this same centre in 3 sanitary zones. So much for who knows and who doesn't. As far as the construction of the highway to Dubrovnik is concerned, a tender has been opened, such as a tender for all highways in Croatia. On the basis of the cost list, the artist was selected and introduced into the works, and Croatian highways were established each year, providing an amount of 12 to 18 million kuna for the production of technical documentation. Thus, no different approach to the road was any different from other highways in the Republic of Croatia. Anyway, it's a matter of political will, whether or not you're going to be built on the highway. You have no political will to build this road either through Croatian territory or across the territory of the neighbouring country, and this is the beginning and end of the debate on the transport isolation of Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16957	Thank you very much. Comrade Luic, Franjo Lucić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16958	Thank you very much. Well, you were just talking about filling a budget that can be heard these days from the ruling coalition that is indeed, which has really been achieved in one way, which is that they have dragged every citizen's hand, every legal and physical person in their pocket and taken out everything they can so far, only the soul has not yet been taken out. When we talk about growth in the economy, so it's clear to all of us, I come from Požega-Slavon County and it's obvious that the number of unemployed has increased 11%, where has the unemployment rate increased by 11% by now and when? In the summer months. So I'm asking you what it's going to be like in the 4th quarter when people get mass quits and I'm afraid we're going to reach 400 thousand unemployed people. So can we today be satisfied with the budget and praise it so much if at the same time we know that we have increased it exclusively by increasing taxes and all the burdens imposed on citizens first of all? And citizens will now feel the increase in these repressive taxes in the autumn and winter days, and I also talked about repressive taxes in the economy. I agree that certain things should be implemented but not in such a repressive way as they are carried out in my tax administration in Požega-slavonska County and in all tax administrations at the level of the state of Croatia. So I'm very worried. And I say an increase in unemployment, and satisfied with the charge of a budget that is exclusively filled with taxes and taxes these citizens pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16959	A reply to Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16960	Thank you, Madam President. That's right, fellow Lucic. So this year it seems like the first time I've had a record of the number of unemployed at the end of August, there's been an increase in the number of unemployed. It was a surprise for all of us who were following the state of the unemployment economy in Croatia that during the summer season, which was also the best season in the history of Croatian tourism to increase the number of unemployment in Croatia during that time. This means that the increase of around 500 new unemployed per day was not related to the seasonal character... season but that there are clear reasons why there is an increase in unemployment much deeper and that the situation in the Croatian economy is difficult. This trail really surprised me by the comment of the first Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Cacic when he gave the International Monetary Fund an assessment of the fall in GDP by the end of the year and said that the Croatian economy would record a decline somewhere around 1.1% and that instead of publishing the measures that should help us improve the situation in Croatia if it was expected that the first Deputy Prime Minister would announce to us what the Croatian government would do by the end of the year, which will be projects, which the laws would contribute to the growth of the economy, he made such a noble statement whether I said so at the beginning of the year. It is at the beginning of the year despite the estimates of different analysts in Croatia who assessed the higher GDP decline in Croatia at 9. I knew about it at the beginning of the year, rather than the Croatian government, I told the month, and he personally took it all in order not to get it down to increase employment to increase production in Croatia, etc. Therefore, I have no surprise at all to say because everything that is happening has actually been announced both through the adoption of the budget and through the adoption of laws that do not encourage spending that is increasingly in the pocket of Croatian citizens and clearly the result of all this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16961	Thank you. The Republic has a colleague, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16962	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's the debate of my colleagues, Bačić, who no doubt was one of the most successful ministers in the government that I led me to do a little replication and say that no one of course members and members of the government should or should not take this debate as an attack on the government. Because I think it's good in these discussions to compare how it was and how it was. And I think it's good that we try to learn that when we're in opposition and when we're in power we represent the same attitudes and the same thesis and that we advocate the same values. A colleague named Bacic mentioned, for example, a crisis tax. I would just like to remind you that the crisis tax was introduced at the moment when the situation was really very difficult for GDP to fall almost 6%, but that by introducing this special tax that was called a harachus here in the assembly, we agreed with the social partners who asked us to evenly deploy the burden of the crisis and that the tax was exempt from the pensioners of 900 thousand, employees of about 600 thousand but also that we abolished that tax already next year. Therefore, the first rate of 1 July 2010 and by the end of the year and the second rate. And that we raised the VAT by 1% also because of a very difficult situation, and I remember then the statement by MP Linic in this assembly and the statement by one daily list in a small interview in which he said that nothing stupider than raising the VAT by 1% had not heard and that when the SDP came to power it would certainly return. However, when we changed the Pension Insurance Act and we gradually decided to increase the retirement age, Mr Milanovic said today, when the SDP comes to power, we will return it to the old age, and now we see requirements for raising the age limit to 67 years. So it would be good to learn the same thing at a time when we run the state and at a time when we are an opposition that wants to be a constructive opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16963	Replication response. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16964	Thank you, Madam Vice President. That's right, co-worker Kosor. It's important in politics to be credible and the same values you stand for when you're in opposition should be promoted even when you're in power. If the SDP had asked the Government in its proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act, then today this government would have been where and where easier and probably these protests that took place yesterday on the streets of Zagreb would not have happened. It would probably be possible then not to pay for Christmas cards if the financial situation in the state budget is not good when the economy is falling, when GDP is. If all those laws your government has proposed had been supported, the situation would have been better, and it would probably be easier today to make decisions and laws to this government. This is how it turns out that this government happened, and for eight years they were in opposition, eight years today's government could be prepared, it could be seen, it had time to look at the situation in the Croatian economy, and in early 2012, it began to take moves that were meant to get Croatia out of the crisis. I am really surprised that after 8 years of opposition, after 8 years of SDP and Kukuriku coalition were in opposition that today when we talk about the state budget, when we talk about the economic situation, the former are persistently accused because they are guilty of what happened. In Croatia there were elections, Croatian citizens said what they thought about what the former government left and they expect this government not to call the former government but rather to make moves that will make life easier for Croatian citizens and in which Croatia will finally start living as Croats in the 21st century and deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16965	Thank you very much. Replica has a colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16966	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I think you have failed to say that something is missing in the name of this point that says budget implementation, lacks budgeting on burden and at the expense of citizens. This is what should have been written in this execution because and clearly that the tax press actually did its part and did its own to the economy. No one mentions that last year the economy was stabilised, that we had economic growth in two quarters, that there was a slight decline at the end of the year, but why, because of the election. Elections came, parliamentary elections. Therefore, this government is doing its utmost to discourage the medium and small entrepreneurship on which the European economy rests. And you do everything to discourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. When you talk about projects, your colleague Bačić said exactly everything about stopping projects in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. I'll just look back at a few projects. So the highway, in the four-year plan of the Croatian highways, there is no continuation of construction from Vrgorec towards Dubrovnik, there is only the end of the separation leading to Ploč but which has been slowed down and which has been stopped. But there's no highway plan to continue the highway towards Dubrovnik, and that's what this government has to say. In the highway plan there is no extension of the highway towards Dubrovnik, there is, of course, no means for the bridge that was secured. You have made a good effort to secure a financial structure for your colleague to continue building the bridge. Also dumps, the sudden abandonment now made by a colleague in the Parliament, then Minister Mrs. Holy, an impertinence can lead to the disaster that took place in the neighbouring country, in Naples, etc. What is waste disposal in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and what is the protection of the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County when the same waste is delayed in much worse conditions in the neighbouring municipality of BiH in Neum or in Grabovica that pollutes Dubrovnik water. Or do you want a disaster to happen,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16967	Comrade Matušić, time for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16968	And you had the European Union funds for that dump. The European Union shall finance this dump.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16969	Please, colleague Matusic. Replication response, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16970	... The exhibition was listed by several ministries that should have helped both investment and investment in the Croatian economy, and they are not as counterpart Šima Djurdjevic said. [[Specially enabled.]] Both the Ministry of crafts and small entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Economy record almost the smallest executions, and if anyone in this Croatia can help the Croatian economy, the Croatian economy can be launched by small entrepreneurs. They are the ones who can react quickly, they are the ones who can quickly hire, who adapt to the market, who are the fastest to adapt to new measures. Therefore, they needed to take the biggest step and allow this medium-sized enterprise to start production in the Republic of Croatia through small entrepreneurship. And as for the Peles Bridge, that's what we're talking about. No one is asking for that bridge to be built by 2014, 2015, to be built by 2017, to be built by 2018. In the middle of 2011, we established a dynamic of funding that is acceptable for the Croatian Roads budget, but it is also acceptable for the state budget. And not the large gaps at a level of about 300 to 400 million kuna annually until 2017, the bridge could be built without the assistance of the European Commission and the European budget. But we also contacted the European Commission when we agreed on the construction of the Pelješko bridge, it was said, at the time, that the main negotiator, Mr Vladimir Drobnjak, informed us that the European Commission, that the European budget and funds will finance access roads both on the Peljeva side and on the part of Neretva, and that the Republic of Croatia will be able to work with its own resources on the basis of the building permit, based on the tenders launched, on the basis of the selected performers who were Croatian performers who are currently out of business, that they will be able to work with the means available, which were acceptable from the state budget and budget of the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16971	Thank you very much. Next replica, counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16972	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here I am reading today's columns on our portals and a columnist called the HDZ Croatian Disstructive Community. Listening to today's debate between the secretary-general and others, former HDZ secretary-general and some other colleagues, and there are no new presidents and new secretaries, they may also be considering changing the name so this HDZ abbreviations so long as they may consider calling themselves the Croatian benevolent community. Because really listening to these discussions, the angelic debates of well-intentioned debates that we hear today and yesterday about this subject simply cannot believe how quickly we forgot all these years of power. I see that the party was a little relieved when Mr. Bajic left, and today we should have discussed the State's Attorney's Office's report. I must admit that I, too, have been a little relieved of these discussions of yours because I thought I would support this report, and it is simply difficult to support the report of this evil State Attorney's Office, who in 2011 spent so much of his resources on information talks, on pressing charges against the very members of that party and against the party itself. So maybe it's a good thing we don't have this debate today so we can all spend the night together and still have a sober view of the State's Attorney's Office report. And said Mr. Bacic stopped, stopped, stopped. Yes, Mr. Bacic will tell you and Mr.... It's a no-project deal, it's a no-fund deal, and how do you do it then? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why did we run out of funds? Well, one of the smallest sins is exactly that multiple painting of tunnels around which there is one indictment. There's a lot of other sins and then you run out of money, and I see you and your colleagues haven't given up on that painting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16973	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16974	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I don't know what you're replicating, I don't know what your replica was about, except in the absence of arguments you're trying to disqualify those that are based on arguments, the data bring up their judgment on the agenda point. You tried to degrade your replica, you tried to disqualify everything that was done and everything that was done and all those who did in that time. If it had been done as you said without the projects, if it had been done without the costs, that it had been done without all the necessary documents that preceded the implementation of the projects in Croatia, so many projects in Croatia would not have been implemented in the past eight years. In the past eight years, Croatia has built a network of highways that today are the main export product and allow such tourism in Croatia. Meanwhile, a series of investments have been made in all other essential infrastructure needs of the Republic of Croatia and has been made until the start of the crisis almost absolutely through the state budget. That's what we were talking about yesterday. Therefore, if it bothers you that we are taking part in the debate and have a reasoned criticism of the state budget, then say it publicly, and we can also implement this agenda without such a debate. But it is up to us to clearly point to everything that is wrongly done, to point to everything that is not good, which is best felt by Croatian citizens, so no matter what you think and how much and how you try to disqualify me and all of us from the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16975	Thank you very much. And the last line has a colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16976	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So you spoke of stopping investments that should have been both the backbone of development and new employment. Today, it was also about these investments being political will and credibility. So I'm wondering now, I'm asking a rhetorical question, what the citizens of my county will think of the citizens of Sisak and Banovina when in a month I get two different answers from the representatives and members of this government. It is about the road, building and stopping the Zagreb-Sisak highway. counterpart Shantek clearly received a response from the Prime Minister a month ago from the road's president to be further built, will not be stopped. And three, four days ago in one daily list we read from the president of HAC Management, a colleague of Bačić interrupts the contract for your Dubrovnik-Dol highway to Sisak-Zagreb and for Podravski Ipsilon. Vocabulary, I quote, "A contract is being terminated for further construction." I'm afraid that Sišnjeni, Banovina who bled for 5 years, today I was talking about schools, a colleague from northern Croatia told me what high standards they had, and then I forgot to tell my schools in Banovina could not even get in until '95. The rest of them were torn apart without the carpentry, and we started building them. And normally, standards can't be the same. So I ask you, what is this development for Sisak-Moslavina County? And that road, that highway we're waiting for, that the HDZ government started working after in 2000, you imagine then Minister Cacic stopped the construction now again that same government is stopping the construction of this highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16977	Thank you very much. We don't have a reply to the replica, and we're moving on to the next speaker. My colleague, Petar Chobanković, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16978	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, and allow me to say a few sentences regarding this point, related to the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months of 2012. Of course, we've said a lot about this subject so far, but here's what I'm going to do when we're looking at it, I'd say not exactly as precise then we can say that this budget is almost ideal. The execution of revenue is about 48.69%, the execution of expenditure 50% Six months, half a year, 50% of the cost. And say what? It may be commendable to those who perform, but unfortunately when we get a little bit into one, I would say a more detailed analysis, then unfortunately we come to some knowledge that it's not exactly what it looks like at first glance. So then we can come to the conclusion that certain bodies of the state administration, certain ministries are significantly in execution below 50%. That's for example. Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, which is at only 13.69% execution, Ministry of Economy 34.98%, Ministry of Regional Development 35.25%, Ministry of Agriculture 40.11%, Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure 46.10%. These are a little bit of a worrying indicator, these are indicators that exactly the ministries that should be in charge, not only of the administrative legal process, not only for the resolution of certain things I would say administratively, but which in its composition also has certain incentives on the one hand, and on the other hand, which in their commitment and work tasks also have certain investments. And then, unfortunately, we come into a situation to see that in the implementation of the budget, investments are largely underestimated, that they were not adequately planned for the percentage of execution. But also certain incentives for the economy, mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises, did not go to the dynamics that were necessary. And unfortunately that results in what results, and if unfortunately at nine months this year we have something that has not been recorded yet. That the increase in the number of people registered at the employment office, when it was combined last year, was 9 months that almost 11% higher and higher. Here, that's unfortunately it. I also have to say that this government, mostly the first vice president, is in favour of investment. That he announced in 2 months a major investment storm, that significant investments were expected, from the public sector to the private sector, but unfortunately we see here that investments were not followed by those ministries that conditionally had the funds in the budget for these investments, and that, looking at the budget, the practical investments were lagging behind. Allow me, too, to say a few sentences and about the problem of agriculture. Also looking at the implementation of the budget, of course when we talk about agriculture, it is the most important issue of subsidies. And when we look at the implementation of the budget, and yet also knowing in part that there was a significant reduction in the 2012 budget for subsidies in agriculture, it was a reduction in the circulation of 800 million. That in 2011, we paid nearly 3 700 million kuna for subsidies, that the level in the 2012 budget for subsidies is 2 800 000 and something more. And when we look at the execution of the goods on subsidies, 49.95%. They'd say... But then when we get back a little bit and look at that same execution in the 2011 partnership, then we come into the situation that the execution in the agricultural subsidy positions, that for a billion, is 1 100 million less than it is in 2011. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] In 2011, the implementation of the first 6 months in the agricultural subsidy positions was a circus of 2,500 million. While this year in the same period in the first six months, it's 1,400 million. It's a significant reduction. And, of course, that's a great deal of the agricultural situation itself. Also, let me not and not look back on something that happened this year with agriculture. Something that could not have been predicted happened, there were major natural disasters, accidents started at 2 months with very low temperatures, temperatures up to -28 degrees, when vineyards and partly orchards suffered. To continue with the spring frosts, when we had temperatures up to -11 in the Slavonski Brod area and some other areas where practically there was the freezing of blooming fruit trees, mostly apples and so forth. This resulted in significantly less fruit production. And then, we come in the summer period where in this year's likely, it's due to climate change and so on, we have 3 or 4 heat strokes, heat shocks with 40 degrees Celsius, which naturally resulted in a very bad situation with plant production. And when we combine it all, of course, it's being brought up to it, at such high temperatures, of course, it's also the problem of drying up, but primarily in this year, it's the effects of heat shocks. And then the question arises, how do we proceed? Of course you get it... when all that less funds of this accident and what's still uncertain. It is uncertain what the government will do to help those people who are not a small number of people who have a basic interest in living out of it to help them survive in 2012. The previous government of the coalition government, which was when it was similar to the level of natural disasters mainly since the drought in 2003, was then provided by the coalition government with approximately 400 million kuna and helped farmers survive. In 2007, we had a similar situation and then the government through redistribution provides some 480 million kuna to help agriculture. In 2010, we had a situation reverse not dry but had a problem with excess water, a problem with floods and again all through the redistribution of financial resources provided by some additional cca 200 million kuna. Finally, in 2011 and in 2011, the funds of the current reserve provided as much as possible, provided an additional 30 million. In this year, at the position of the state budget, we have 20 million for elemental disasters. This is similar to previous years, and of course, when a budget is done, it cannot go in the direction of predicting that there will be an elemental disaster. For these reasons, if it occurs through a certain form of redistribution, it provides some financial resources to mitigate the consequences of these elemental disasters. And so I want to believe that this government will also have an understanding for those who are the most vulnerable this year, and surely farmers in this year belong to the category of the most endangered on the one hand, that once again when we look at the problem of agriculture, then we can say that the biggest problem is precisely in the part of the livestock sector, mainly in the part of the milk production.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16979	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16980	And now we come up with certain absurd situations that anything invested to increase this production, unfortunately, could result in the collapse of the entire system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16981	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16982	Here I thank you with the faith that the government will find opportunities to help agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16983	Thank you, dear colleague Chobankovic. We have five replicas on your exhibit. First in line, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16984	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I once again congratulate you on your new function. You were colleagues, so here I think the best minister in the two terms of the last government, and people remember you really as someone who knows, as a farmer, as a man who could say in the government exactly what the Croatian peasant thinks and feels. Well, look, you were just talking about the budget and the budget cuts here on some of the items that apply to agriculture. Doesn't it seem to you, Mr. Cobankovic, that this government has been in fact indelicately involved in agriculture at all, so in reality its plan is also to suppress the village because it doesn't matter to them. So this summer when it was literally burning in terms of drought and about 2 million hectares of agricultural land this year were literally threatened, 7 days were the villagers asking the minister to manifest himself. Has it ever happened to you that you haven't been manifested or, for example,? that the former prime minister hadn't arrived and was proving herself to be the problem of an elemental accident. But then Mr. Prime Minister called and said obviously we're all left to the case and the state was left to the case, and such a state is a random state and here is his random state because they really accidentally came to power. And it seems to me through all this and through the unions and everyone who's protesting and asking better for this government to behave like Maria Antoinette so she says well if you don't have the bread to buy yourself cookies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16985	Reply to the replica of Coli cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16986	Thank you very much, Vice President. I wouldn't go that far and I wouldn't say that it's part of a thought-out policy to work against agriculture against farmers, but it seems to me that there's a kind of discrepancies and I'd say part of not knowing enough of the situation, and maybe a lot of coincidences.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16987	Thank you very much. The next replica has a colleague Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16988	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Cobankovic, you mentioned investment. Let me paraphrasise Prime Minister Milanovic so I will say neither the investment will happen in the spirit of the world. Should we be surprised that there are not many interested investors in a country where the left government retroactively charges dividend taxes or whether we should be surprised that the public sector is not investing, given that 9 months are conducted exclusively by human beings who are clean or human beings, since we all understand that investments, and these are projects that need to be done by some people. These people need to know their jobs, if you change them then of course they all care. And I'm going to go back to the unemployment issue because I personally think that especially in the unemployment crisis is the ultimate indicator of the success or failure of an economic policy. As counterpart Bacic has already said for the first time in history this summer we have had a rise in unemployment, believe me exclusively as a consequence of tax repression. It just shows that the trend is really terrifying. Let's take an example of Gredell, so did the Gredell company with 1400 employees have to go bankrupt? I think that again shows only the degree of creativity or increativeness and inability to manage, a company with new production into which a lot of money has been invested, with people who know how to work a very sophisticated product, and the other day we saw it with a product that is currently being delivered. So especially here, I must say, I have to subscribe, it surprises me that Mr. Hajdas-Doncic, the Minister of Transport, has allowed me, as he comes from Krapina-Zagorje County, is a former mayor, and more than half of the employees in Gredelje are coming from Krapina-Zagorje County. And finally, do you really think 20,000 people fired or forced to retire to the public sector will solve or help get out of the crisis. Believe me, he won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16989	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16990	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow MP, I fully agree with you to conclude that the tax press is something that has conditioned to a large extent such a situation, and perhaps I will return a little bit to the revenue side. When we see that the execution of revenue for the first 6 months is 48.69% and when we know and in the first quarter it was over 25% then we see that practically from the moment the increased VAT went into effect, there was no significant increase and charge of the state budget. And unfortunately, I don't want to be a bad prophet, but it seems to me that the execution of incomes at this rate of unemployment, with such a fall in traffic to a little bit, is unfortunately not achieved in planned dynamics and planned amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16991	Thank you, Your Honor. The next replica is the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16992	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, of course I'm glad to hear my colleague, Cobankovic, talking in this House about agriculture in a clear, domestic, comprehensible language. I'm as clear as it was when you solved the most difficult problems up to long into the night, but there was a solution to both the elemental accident and in any case, and after the strenuous conversations, that insidious peasant hand was squeezed. Of course, I was also appalled by this information that a billion and 100 million kuna of support was paid less in comparison to that time in 2011, which resulted in inconceivable consequences, mainly in livestock farming. So over already today and perhaps 4,000 farms, the number of cows on forced slaughter also, the production of milk fell, and the price of food will naturally rise. And now it's not clear to me how when the Minister of the current agriculture says he inherited skeletons, debts, 300, 500, I don't even know how much more, I don't even know how to explain it, and I just can't find any explanation. So there's no money in the budget, there's no money in the country's pockets, food's growing, and it's just a conclusion where it's even a state of agriculture. My thinking as far as I can see on the ground is simply a breakdown of Croatian villages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16993	Thank you, Your Honor. Replica response, respected representative Petar Cobanković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16994	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MP, here, I'll try to answer. I myself listened to Mr. Minister's allegations about certain obligations that remained in 2011 and some previous years, so it went, started with about 300 million, then came to 800 million, then a billion and 200, so that at one point that the figure, according to Mr. Minister, would reach up to 3 billion. Today, when we look at the implementation of this budget, when we see that this was so much debt, then this situation in execution would have to be significantly different, not that the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months on subsidies compared to last year would be less than a billion and 100 million kuna. But I'll tell you now a little graphic. When we had a Committee on Agriculture yesterday and I asked the ministry to define those obligations, then one assistant minister dead cold for one item says 311 million. I'm looking for a specification, and then he's a bit of a wrinkle, and then he starts to pay off, and then I look a little harder, and then he says no, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, it's not 311 million but 311 grand. I look at my colleagues now, so that didn't get mixed up by one zero, he got mixed up by three zeroes. So if that's how it counts, if 300 thousand are converted into hundreds of millions then we can get to those and 3 billion unfulfilled liabilities in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16995	Thank you, Your Honor. The next replica is a replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16996	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm also congratulating the election because I wasn't here when the election was. By the way, Mr. Cobankovic, you were talking about elementary disasters and the amount of money that was planned for that. In these reserves, everything except for the money for the elemental accidents and was shared for other purposes. Here I know, so he was angry with a colleague from the Serbian People's Council that money was shared from these reserves to the Serbian National Council. I don't know if it's an elemental accident. But your government and you yourself as ministers know well that there was a payment card at the time of the flood in Slavonia, which read on the 1st kuna flood fee. Furthermore, there is still a factory in Slavonia, Đuro Djakovic, which produces anti-building missiles, and your government and this government imports 2/3 of missiles from Serbia, Macedonia and Bulgaria. Therefore, the needs of between 6 and 8000 anti-urban missiles are met by imports and by the permanent imports from Serbia, Bulgaria and Macedonia, and Djuro Djakovic's toolbox sells everything together on the domestic market of 2000 anti-urban missiles. Which is why, when competing, the same toolbox has more favourable conditions and gives and offers more favourable prices in a public tender than producers from Bulgaria, Serbia and Macedonia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16997	Thank you, Your Honor. Replica response, respected representative Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16998	Thank you. There he is. Do I hear from you now? Yes, and, of course, the system of compensation for damages from the elemental accidents is not ideal. The day before yesterday, we had a board of elemental disasters, and we kind of figured that out, and we said that we should be heading towards the restoring ministries with the amendments to the law because it's the '97 Act. years and, of course, a lot has been through, a lot has changed and needs to be created. But what I wanted to say was, I wanted to say that there was always a certain good will and my appeal went in the direction of government representatives to also show good will to farmers because of these extremes I would say the elemental disasters that I listed going back in the direction of finding a certain part of the funding to help them survive. And as for anti-urban missiles, the Croatian Hydrometeorological Institute is an obligation to purchase missiles, it conducts public procurement. On several occasions, the assistant appealed to the Commission for public procurement procedures, but unfortunately neither the Commission has ever respected their reasons and that is what is happening as a consequence of public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u16999	Thank you, too. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17000	Mr. President of the Parliament, I disagree with my colleague who said you should take a good look to see that this implementation of the budget in the first six months is not good, etc. This isn't supposed to be a good look, this is what you see from the plane that's not good, this is what you see from the plane that's actually really bad. And that in a way that it's clear to everyone that everything this government has done in the past year that it's only been going to fill the budget. An increase in taxes, so every child knows, an uneducated man I'd say a fool. It does not need to be wise or should be Prime Minister in order to know that by raising taxes, the budget will be filled. But everything this government has been doing over the past year has led to a halt in investment and that the people are without any perspective and want to invest in nothing. So, stop investment, complete imperceptibility for the next year there are no investments, and next year we'll have a problem with budget filling both the first and the last six months. And as for that anecdote about driving a bus to Mr. Marin Jurjevic, I ask my colleague who's driving a bus in this government? Who's the driver? Is it Milanovic or Cacic? Or Linic? I don't know. Seems to me like he's driving a little bus. As far as I know, he hasn't proven himself too much in a good ride.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17001	Thank you very much. We're going to the next debate, no matter what 12,00 hours, we're going to end the debates of the registered deputies. Two more hearings have been reported and it would be a shame if citizens didn't hear it all the way. Don't tell me the amnesia didn't show up with anyone I think it did. Respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev has the next debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17002	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed deputy, assistant minister, colleague and colleague of this half-yearly report on the implementation of the state budget with all contributions could be spoken for days. There are almost no items that could not be commented or parsed. But I'd like to remind my colleagues on the other side of the assembly about the materials we got. There is clear what is being done and what is the trend in economic activity in the first six months. What makes us happy from the tourist parts is to see only the positive arrival of the number of guests and the number of overnight stays in the first 6 months. However, we know that this is the result of the work of the previous time, the result of work and the previous government. However, the rise in consumer prices grieves. That growth is 2.5%. If you continue with this trend at the end of your term, consumer prices will rise by more than 20%. What is even worse and harder is the decline in industrial production in the first 6 months of 6%, which means that at the end of your term industrial production should fall by over 50% than what you found. Handsome tables are a comparison of what was done and how much was realized and spent in the first 6 months of 2011, meaning during the times of the former government and the present. So the new government was happy to swear a reduction in the cost of people outside of work, and this was filled with newspaper articles. In the first six months 31% more was spent than in the same period last year for these purposes. It is also an interesting item in the acquisition of works of art that was realised by 173% more than in 2011. That doesn't say we're having a crisis, obviously it was necessary. And we have many of those items. However, a far bigger problem, and will be even bigger in the coming months, the amount is planned and spent on decentralised functions – primary and secondary education, health care, social care and fire department. In the first six months, 105 million kunas were spent more than planned, which would mean that over 210 million should be saved in the remaining six months than in the first half of the year. That won't be possible, it won't be easy. And it should not be forgotten that in this half of the year all the prices have increased. I'm afraid there will be a general collapse in the functioning of schools, hospitals, nursing and firehouses in the coming months. There won't be any heat, I'm afraid there won't be any chalk. The part of the budget that makes me the most bitter concerns budget users in the function of protection and rescue. In fact, this item has experienced a 14 million kuna reduction in budget planning for this year. These are also funds for 95 public fire departments, for 1891 voluntary fire company. So we have in realising the budget to equip the system for protecting and saving only 18% of the resources, so the programme in implementing special fire protection measures was spent 10%, training and equipment for the needs of fire interventions and 5%, support for the equipment of voluntary fire companies was low, and now it's gone, so we have no realisation, no index. Prevention and fire-fighting 26%, fire-fighting 26%, fire-fighting 37%, and so on. I wonder when we should be working on prevention. As far as I know, fire prevention as well as training and equipment should be done before the fire season. In your own explanation of the state budget, you wrote: "The costs of preventive fire protection are significantly lower than the costs of reducing the effects of the fire, especially when taking into account the long-term effects of the fire on the environment." And you, besides planning a smaller amount, don't spend a third of what you planned. And this year, the fires were storming the entire coast, draining both human and financial resources. In the first seven months we have damages of over 240 million kuna, 84% more air interventions, air intervention needs than last year. The highest number of fires was recorded on our Sibenik-Knin County. And with us there are still fresh and painful memories of the Kornati tragedy. Dispose of these funds to public fire departments and voluntary fire companies. These are the funds they planned for fire protection and should be spent. Are you aware of the dangers you're causing by saving on these items?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17003	Thank you very much. On your exhibit we have reported 1 replica, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17004	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you spoke well, my colleagues, especially I agree with you in the first part, which is investment. Well, if we remember the government earlier in Plan 21 promised investments, and then when they were built, it just started with investments, so they said in February, they set the goal of investments for 2.4 billion kuna, competitions in 90 days. And then already in the same month Cacic wanted to check on how it was going, but everything stopped. There was no swing, so Cacic said well it won't be right now, it'll be until May, so it came May in May nothing, he says well I won't leave yet I still have time yet, here's 9 months and here's fellow Juric, 9, 10 months from investment nothing. There's something, what the former government left behind, so I guess it'll work out somehow. Their investments, i.e. Mr. Cacic's personal investments, are projects, mega projects Zagreb at Sava, which is something from the 1960s. They do not realize that this Croatian does not need instantaneously mega-projects, this Croatia needs projects that will be paid off in a short period of time, not 10 years. And these projects are the ones that will invest in small and medium-sized enterprises. However, they think they live in a random state, and as I have already said, they behave like Mary Antonieta, when the people have no bread, let them buy themselves cakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17005	Thank you very much. We're changing the plan because there are three other clubs and one representative to discuss this issue. They want to meet the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as they live, so that they can do it in peace without pressure, we will now stop the debate, we will do the addition of the agenda, we will vote on the laws that have been passed, then we will continue to discuss this issue in peace. We'll go back to the debate we broke up. ... You can't hear me again. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll go back to the debate we broke up. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We have three clubs, and one colleague pulled the application card. The first is the HDZ club and respected representative Martina Dalic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17007	Dear Mr. President, you can stop me while they
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17008	We will, we will. Please allow colleagues to discuss with counterpart Martini Dalic. A little attention. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17009	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm actually going to put myself in danger in my debate of becoming an inexperienced representative. As our academic Rainer has been called an unexperienced representative, I will re-expose myself to be called an inexperienced representative with my question, and I hope that you, too, as chairperson, will still less qualify us as such qualifications because it is our right to be inexperienced representatives. We can't all be representatives in a few terms. Well, now I'm going back to my inexperienceful question. . We've been discussing budget implementation here for six months. [[Applause.]] A lot of facts, opinions, sightings of this situation have been said. However, I am in fact interested in just one question that I would like Mr. Deputy Minister to answer because we have not received an answer about him. And what I'm really interested in is how will the budget be implemented by the end of the year? Because even though a report on the implementation of the budget has been submitted to the Parliament in 6 months, we have available data on the Ministry of Finance's website for the first 8 months. These data indicate if you allow the assessment that the revenues will be carried out in accordance with the plan. These data, however, show that in the first 8 months the expenditures were 0.3% or 300 million kunas higher than they were in the same period last year. This year's budget forecasts that expenditure in 2012 will be 2.5 billion kuna less than last year. If expenditure in the first 8 months was 300 million kunas higher than in the first 8 months of last year then it means that a plan would be made to save these 2.9 billion kunas in the month 9, 10, 11 and 12. My question is how will 2.9 billion kuna be saved in 4 months? For comparisons and size order codes for those whose substance may not be quite close, this corresponds roughly to the monthly payment fund for all state and public officials and tenants. We therefore hold in HDZ that this debate needs to be concluded with information and reasoning by the Ministry of Finance representative how will the 2012 budget plan be achieved in the next 4 months? Because the salaries were made in the first eight months more than they were in the last year, despite the fact that the contribution to health care is lower and that it goes in favour of savings. Retirements for pensions, children's allowances are more than 600 million kuna last year. The plan was on that item -900. So, in these figures there is one important issue, an important issue for the Ministry of Finance, but also an important issue for Croatian citizens, i.e. how and how will these 2.9 billion kunas be found to be saved in order to achieve the deficit planned? Is there perhaps some more surprises that we should all know about in the coming months? I would ask you, Mr. Deputy Minister, not to use demagogue questions in answer because this question is not something that can be answered by the demagogue. I would ask you to answer me reasoned as if this question were asking you a rating agency or an IMF or any other analyst who knows how to read these figures. Because from the figures you published for the first eight months, this question clearly arises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17010	Thank you, too. No matter how much I put myself in danger, I would like to thank you for an experienced warning for an under-experienced president. We'll keep that in mind. The next on behalf of the SDP club is the respected deputy vice president of the House of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17011	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So in fact, the report on the implementation of the budget in six months was less discussed through the debate, more talked about budgetary policy and how the budget was conceived. Well, then I'm going to say a few sentences about budget policy. We made a budget at the time we were, in the year we also had a decision on temporary financing and that is. always one handicap to every government that makes a budget in the first year. What conditions have he been brought in? In conditions of still crisis, so since 2008, even to this day we have been living in conditions of crisis, we have continued economic, economic problems, the economy barely survives, there is no investment in the real sector, we have a high indifference that is becoming more and more insolvencies, we lack economic growth, we have high debt and states, and citizens, and economies. And in such conditions, in fact, citizens, and states, and the debt economy must go into the reprogramme, each reprogramme is becoming more unfavourable. How, then, do you understand budgetary policy? You don't have that many alternatives and options. You can't have savings when you have nothing to spare and then what do you do? You try to stabilise the budget from home to state, you try to disburse the economy in what opportunities you have, you have to consolidate the economy and take measures that will try to stabilise the situation, i.e. start growth and employment. Who's paying for it? You always say they're citizens here. So we are also aware when we have taken such measures, we have said that this stabilisation of the budget and economic growth measures will have to be paid by citizens to drop their standard of living. Because you have no other way out. The budget is always full of citizens. Such a policy actually requires rigorous discipline in the implementation of the budget. And from the six-month budget, it's obvious that it's not really fully in that, it hasn't been fully achieved and that the other half of the year will have to be more rigorous in all parts of the budget, so for all the beneficiaries of the budget. So that and the reason then and the new collective bargaining, and even where it could not be achieved through social dialogue, could not achieve such measures, it also went to the end of collective agreements. counterpart Dalic asks what the budget implementation will look like by the end of the year, not entering that I am giving a metric response because it will be given by a government representative, or a deputy minister. I would just like to say that, it will be realised in the planning frameworks because it is a duty and all the users of the state budget, but that is also the task that stands before us under the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. But it will only be realized if we don't get caught up in the surprises we've been experiencing these days, which we've warned for a few years, for example. The payment of debt to pensioners is made out of a loan that is not realised anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17012	Thank you, too. The next club, the HNS club and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17013	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here, the final few minutes on behalf of the CNS which clearly supports this report of the budget as well as supporting all the measures, instruments and laws that the Croatian government is implementing. You have greatly praised and proved that you have done well in your discussions, and some of these tourism successes are due to the success of the former government. However, when we talk about fiscal consolidation, only this government deficit on this passing budget, I say, has realised by 0.9% of percentage points less than it was last year. And this government has passed a series of measures of legislation, in which it clearly, firmly implements, drives, solves everything we've found not because of the general macroeconomic policy in the world or global policy but what's left over because of the trafficking problem, with Dioki, with Dalmatia wine, Sisak iron, and some have already, some of the problems this Government has already solved, and we believe the Shkvers, and 3. May, Trogir and Split will be settled by the end of the year. These are the results of this government, they're not simple things, they don't go overnight. The budget is no longer used through the deficit as so far to finance consumption, irrational consumption, spending bought by the electoral body, the deficit used, is used for what is basic and for creating conditions for investment. And the bank, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a rating that we keep with this budget indicator that we are fiscally disciplined, that we know how and what provides us with cheap interest for the development of the economy. The law on the promotion of investment and competitiveness, agencies and centres for energy and investment, the measures of the Ministry of Finance are those that must serve as tools and serve to attract investment and to have a non-entrepreneurship good climate, because we are talking, but these are the laws that we adhere to. And don't forget 75 thousand companies are in a blockade, 70,000 employees in these companies don't get paid, and that's part of the policy we inherited. A billion and 600 million waiting for us from, kill the problem of the pension fund, i.e. the loans taken in the Zagreb Bank and the Croatian Post Bank. It's something that's waiting for us but we're not going to let that rise above 3%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17014	Thank you, too. Finally, the respected Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Finance is the final word. Here you go. Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17015	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here are the ladies and gentlemen of the council in this two-day debate on the budget of the six-month budget where we have shown that the situation is what it is. So no embellishment or any other display has been attempted but the way it is. We are committed next year when we join the EU as realistically as possible to show the data that they are and we think it is our duty and duty by investing in such a society to show the situation in a clear and transparent way. The question asked by the distinguished colleague Dalic whether the budget will be implemented by the end of the year, I think there are certain legal obligations for the implementation of this deficit within the frameworks that we have set. However, in our daily business, we are aware of the fact that we have some situations that are sudden, and as you know and which we spoke about in defining the budget stock where we spent most of the budget stock precisely on lawsuits against the Republic of Croatia that simply came into effect according to the account of the Ministry of Finance. These are some amounts that unfortunately we can't predict and that's unfortunately let's say I'm not going to say legacy but just that's the situation, I don't want to call anyone for such things but it's simply a reality. We tried to determine here only in this respect where I'm talking to you, so I'm not going to commit to other things is that right now, according to all the ministries, the lawsuits are in about 8 billion kunas. These are one of the realities that we need to see how we solve and how we actually put in to solve without breaking the budget. What's before this government is a big challenge is what we said we would defend the deficit of these 10 billion kunas. On Monday, I returned from the debate in Brussels of the Council of Finance where there is also a heated discussion about the budget so that Croatia and this debate today confirm the date in Europe, whether we are part of Europe always were and will be and we will also be the debates that are being held there are also going on about the budget with us, and that is now one way to say the current issue in the EU. And now there's always the question, the question of the deficits that have actually been touched has always been before that's the problem of undeveloped countries. Today it is happening that the problem of deficits is the problem of developed countries. And we're trying to determine in these economic models of ours means Croatia, and that's why I'm telling all of Europe if we've made a mistake somewhere and how can we continue on the way we've been working so far, so I'm saying again that I'm not accusing anyone, it's simply an economic model that Croatia as well as Europe had that model. The consumption model and the borrowing model, which by 2008 did not show, but when the first banking crisis in 2008 began to happen, however, when the problem and deficits and public debt were opened, we are in a vicious circle. And when the 2013 budget is made, we also open the question of the funding model of our entire society, or we see through these models whether we are going in the right direction or actually trying to stabilise and turn in the other direction. So in the direction of production in the direction of exports, where both new technologies and new values will try to maintain this level of consumption that we now have. I wouldn't open the debate any further, so we've got a problem, I've only told you this part of where we're going to do business with the Ministry of Finance, so that's something we're going to try to solve by the end of the year anyway. It will unfortunately be years behind when we will have a problem solving it but it is a challenge to try to stick together with defined conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17016	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We've got two lines reported. Dear Martina Dalic, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17017	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, you haven't actually answered my question, but I accept, you're the Deputy Minister and I don't think you can answer my question, but it remains relevant because you're the Deputy Minister of Finance. Unfortunately, there is no special space in the Ministry of Finance that could be created, expanded or deepened in beautiful words, there simply money must come where it is intended and in the way it is planned and there is, of course, that capital issue that you and I understand that this execution in the first 8 months shows that if the budget wants to enter the plan then it must be saved 2.9 billion kuna somewhere. I understand that it's not simple and the reason why I asked you is, I wanted to round up this debate in a certain way and create a platform for you to talk about what you're going to do because we're in the middle of the 10th month and by the end of the year are two and a half months, and the problem is urgent. Because if it is to enter the planned items, then this execution shows that at the 12th month, no part of the salary will be paid and that no part of the pension will be paid at the 12th month. That way you can enter the planned items. So the question of the execution and the way the executions come is not the answer to this because it is so unfortunately a daily job at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17018	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17019	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovac, I don't understand in every line or every indication of yours you have a single sentence, I'm not accusing anyone. And we don't think you're accusing, but we need to tell the truth. Everything is what it seems to me like every time you want to say I shouldn't interfere, but we need to interfere. All the authorities so far have approached production in a way that they have left the burnt ground. It all seemed that there were traces of production, including agriculture before the former minister, all the governments seemed to produce as little as possible and to import as much as possible, to accept as much of the money under the table, to be as independent as possible, and to always want to, grab hold of the independent republic, democratic etc. Well, I often speak multiparty, and I never dare say independent because we've never been more addictive. If we were to build a wall for six months, we wouldn't be driving goods, we'd starve to death. Croatia had produced enough before, it was self-sufficient production in agriculture. That's what we need to talk about, and you won't be able to close any budgets, maybe this year, maybe next year if you don't start production. The point is production, you're just talking about collecting taxes here. And it's hypocritical on the other side of the story all the time that you're actually talking about how you haven't been able to do it in six months, you haven't been able to do this, you haven't been able to do it. Your only crime is that you haven't been able to turn into a phoenix in the last nine months.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-11-0.u17020	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions of the report are met. And a notice at the end. We begin the session Tuesday, resume the meeting of 16 October at 9.30 p.m. at the usual time with the State's Attorney's Office Report. Have a good weekend, have a good time, see you Monday on the working bodies. Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the vote as we announced as planned. First, we will vote on the proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2012 with a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2012. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a half-yearly report. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'll get you a score. I find that most of the votes 80 for, 29 against and 6 abstentions have been adopted a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2012. In accordance with Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am giving the budget law to vote on the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for the first half of 2012. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the decision has been made by a majority of the votes. Next I am voting in favour of giving consent to the half-year report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for the first half of 2012. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that the decision has been made by a majority of the votes. Thank you very much. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Deposit Insurance Agency's financial plan and the resolution of banks for the first half of 2012. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the decision has been made by the majority of the votes. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for the first half of 2012. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the vote is 82 for, 33 against and 3 abstentions of the decision. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the State Property Management Agency for the first half of 2012. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the decision was made with most votes, 82 for, 33 against and 3 abstentions.
