ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8358	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Allow briefly some emphasis on changing the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, let me say that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the rules of the Sui Genis, my kind, I could say the law for parliamentary members and everyone who enters the Parliament with the intention of representing their own interests in politics, for them it is the law. Why is it a sui generis? The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be adopted directly on the basis of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, there is no further step of the law between the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. It shall be based on the provisions of Articles 2 and 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the current Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was adopted in 2000, and since then a significant number of times have been changed for reasons of alignment with the organisation and way of working in the Croatian Parliament, technological changes in aids in the Croatian Parliament and for the alignment with the laws governing the state administration. This now initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament agreed to the Croatian Parliament presidency on 10 and 17 April this year as an initiative of the presidency. Therefore, the Bureau sent its initiative to the competent working body of the Croatian Parliament, which is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that adopted this initiative and established a draft decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. What is to be achieved by the proposed amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament? We want to increase the democracy of the debate, the representation of policies and policies of any clubs, or the individuals of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We want to prevent, as far as possible, the abuse of institutes, business institutes or tricks used to discredit or discredit a representative or advocate of a particular policy and politics. The questions that we can share in three groups, which are regulated by the amendments and additions to the Decision on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, are conditioned by the new structure of the state administration, established by the Act on the Part-Corruption of the Ministry and other central bodies of the State Administration, the Law on the System of State Administration. Thus, in line with the new structure, we have proposed new solutions to change the name and specific competences of individual working bodies, we are abolishing, we are proposing the abolition of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, whose competence, i.e. in part, would be taken over by the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Regional Development, the Funds and the European Union funds. The second group, which is also partly tied to the working bodies, is the consequence that the amendments to Croatian legislation in the past and the changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the latest novels, the 2010 Constitution. As some working bodies have lost some of their responsibilities and some of their parts, and certain special laws have given them new responsibilities and a new part of the circle for reasons of legal certainty. The harmonisation of these provisions of the law, i.e. the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, is proposed. The change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the latest 2010 novel, amended the way in which certain acts of law or other acts concerning the necessary majority for their adoption, and with the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, we wish to bring business provisions in line with these changes. As an example, I will list the changes related to the adoption of the State budget in the Croatian Parliament or the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court in the Croatian Parliament. The third group of issues include amendments and additions to the provisions relating to the constitutional session of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the legislative procedure itself, and special procedures relating to the rights and duties of MPs whose implementation was carried out in part because of its non-compliance with the legal system, in part because of the abuse of law is difficult in practice or has resulted in a debate on the very modification of these provisions, leaving the topic of debate at the plenary session almost irrelevant. Within the third group of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, two business institutes should be specifically singled out and that correction of the incorrect allegations and violation of the Rules of Procedure. Although these institutes were introduced for the reasons of the dynamic debate at the plenary session itself in practice, this confirms the verification of practice, most often served as an extended replica in the Croatian Parliament and the replicas Institute. Therefore, the decision proposes to abolish the institution's correction of the incorrect allegation and to extend the replicas in such a way that MPs can replicate the government's representative, and to the representative of the representative club, which has not been a practice so far, nor is it possible for business. It is also proposed to prevent the frequent interruption of meetings through the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's infringement institutes in such a way that the debate on infringements of the Rules of Procedure is carried out on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and if the initiative, that is to say, has been refused by the Chairman's Rules of Procedure. If he adopted it, the problem was solved. If he refuses, the possibility of a representative or someone else, representatives or someone else to contact the relevant working body of the Assembly shall remain. In the absence of a written and reasoned proposal for breach of the Rules of Procedure announced by the MP, it would lose some opportunity to do so again without addressing the competent working body. By doing so, the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure would be serious and we believe that this is a serious problem if the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is violated. As for the abolition of the correction of the incorrect quote, the experience or statistical view of the use of the institute in the Croatian Parliament shows that it is in a huge percentage. This is, of course, a subjective assessment of us in the professional service almost 98% of the cases of the institute, the business institute of correcting an incorrect allegation was not a correction of the incorrect allegation but rather a replica, or an even worse correction of an incorrect allegation was not at all a correction of any alleged, but a denial of the debate of the relevant or fellow or club. It should be noted that the initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament has drawn considerable attention to how the clubs of representatives of individual representatives themselves in the Croatian Parliament, whether independent or members of certain clubs, as interested Croatian public Association of Civil Society. All these suggestions, proposals and amendments to supplement the Statutes from the first to the second reading of this decision amending and supplementing the Statutes will be discussed within the framework of the procedure, i.e. in the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. As for the amendment and addition of the Statute that awaits us, so this is only the first stage. I would just like to stress that until the entry into the European Union, another more significant and substantial amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament awaits us until we enter the European Union, until full membership in the European Union. It is related to the Law on the Relations of Parliaments and Governments when Croatia is a full member of the European Union. Of course, the provisions or solutions he adopts through this law will also have a significant impact on the regulation of business provisions and business opportunities related to the Croatian Parliament and the working body can already say that which will accompany the work of representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the Government in the bodies of the European Union. Finally, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure cannot in any way deny the right to speak or the right to abuse of speech. It's not the ambition of these changes either. However, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure must enable all those representing politics and policies in the Croatian Parliament, whether representatives of the Government, the Association of Civil Society, clubs, individuals, MPs are able to present their policy without obstruction and disqualification to the Croatian public. Good intentions and goodwill of the representatives and the democratic court of the Croatian public and of the Croatian electoral body, along with the business provisions we offer as an amendment and addition to the Rules of Procedure, we hope that they will provide a democratic atmosphere in the Croatian Parliament, which will enable citizens to make it clear that they can clearly understand which policy they represent, what interests they defend and whom they seek confidence from. If we just take a step towards this goal, I think the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure will provide the objectives we set and enable citizens to cope more easily with the representation of policies heard in the Croatian Parliament. And there's something else I want to point out, because I think it's important. According to the proposal to amend and supplement the current Rules of Procedure, it is proposed that all those who have the right and the ability to speak and represent interests and policies in the Croatian Parliament get the same business opportunity, the same business democratic institute to replicate and respond to the replica we consider a significant democratisation of the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Until the second reading, I hope that both representatives and clubs in the Croatian Parliament will be responsible for themselves and for the Croatian public to try to improve the text of the provision, as well as the debate and representation of their ideas in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8359	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, that's the institution that's still being used. The first came forward to be used by Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it doesn't occur to me to face this issue with Mr. Lek, but I would like to say that he incorrectly said that this Rules of Procedure will increase the democraticity of the debate in the Croatian Parliament. That's incorrect. Well, here I am being taken from the main tool that I know how to use and how to use. I'm not one to say that 25% of VAT is good, that the increase in the price of gas is good, I have my own way and I say very simply to the home dictionary or nuts or to the plow, very simple. And as for the abuses themselves, I'm afraid there is an abuse that these changes will be dominated by the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8361	And Mr. Representative Josip Djakic corrected the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8362	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In this regard, it is incorrect to quote a colleague of Lek Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament where he stated that he wanted to achieve the democracy of representing politics and politics and to prevent abuse and discrediting and representatives of the promoters as well as representatives of the Croatian Parliament. No, that's absolutely not true. You want to close your mouth to the opposition, to us MPs who respond in due time to what is not true in the presentation, whether you are a colleague of the representative and representative or aproposer of the Government. It is the only tool and tool that we know how to use and by leaving replicas like this you allow you to double answer to what we MPs of opposition say to you. Therefore, I cannot agree that you want to achieve democracy and justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8363	Thank you. I'm sure there'll be words for that later. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go. Excuse me. So before the club representatives perform, I apologize to Agent Cain, would the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8364	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On 16 May 2012, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government held a debate on the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in the discussion of the members of the Committee was particularly stressed to support the proposed amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which deletes the institute of correction of the incorrect allegations. They pointed out that certain provisions of this amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure need to be developed and extended by a second reading, in particular the provisions on infringements of the Rules of Procedure and the way in which the rights of legislators are lost to the submission of an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. And after the discussion of the Committee on Locals, the district self-government voted by a majority of 6 votes in favour, 1 abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final proposal for a decision." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8365	Thank you. Do the committees who discussed this subject also want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we move on to a club debate. Mr. Representative Damir Cain, on behalf of the IDS Club, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8366	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm going to be dealing with something more serious than this guilty allegation itself. So we go in this sort of order, so in the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, among other things, Article 5 and Article 23 of our Rules of Procedure, which also speaks about immunity. The immunity of MPs is governed by the Constitution means Article 75 and our Rules of Procedure. Article 75(2) also states that "a representative cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for an opinion or vote in the Assembly". Our Rules of Procedure, Article 23, which titles parliamentary immunity, says "the representative has immunity from the day of the establishment of the Assembly until the term of office is terminated" and then goes on to state what immunity really means. But where's the problem? Both the Constitution and our Rules of Procedure speak of criminal responsibility. Unfortunately, since some courts in the Republic of Croatia do not speak our Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and civil liability. And then we have a de facto situation that anyone in this country can sue you for a spoken word or for an opinion expressed on this speaker. So because of slander, I can't take off your immunity because of an insult, not if someone "punished" is chasing you, but you can simply get into a situation where you find yourself in an extremely ungrateful situation because of civil liability. And if it hadn't happened to me, I just wouldn't have believed it. Everyone in this house was being stripped of immunity when, for example, The state's attorney's office requested it. And it's absolutely not a dispute, and none of us have ever objected to that. And whenever it was required, we all voted more or less unanimously for such demands. It's something else, for example. We get a whole series of reports every day, I don't know now that I'm not thinking which one, for example. about the CNB or any other bank or banking facility, so let's say what I know with the right someone mentions a bank and she can sue you now for damages without asking for a removal of immunity and you de facto immediately in that situation appear before the court and the trial begins. This happened to me in the context of the HRT business report. I've said or expressed my opinion here for this speaker, that almost every show on HRT can be bought, I said almost every one. I'm even convinced that I'm not higher and higher than that, enough to read only the steps of some employees on HRT from Sylvia Lux and beyond. Now, after that, the HRT sues me for damages, looking for 110 thousand kuna. So far, I've spent my 15 thousand kunas in these three years of the process of higher and higher litigation. Tensile interest from 110 thousand kuna has already risen to 50 thousand kuna or I don't know how much. Once worded, due to a sentence that almost every show on Croatia RadioTelevision can be bought on almost every show Croatian RadioTelevision on today asks me for about 200 thousand kunas. Croatian broadcasting which should be one temple of democracy that I continue to experience regardless of what is best in Croatian television. Now I'm asking myself if the Croatian Rules of Procedure or whether a representative in such a case or a similar case should protect immunity, means not only against criminal justice but also against civil law responsibilities. Yes or no. Now, shall we say, in my case, the Parliament, the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, the President of the Parliament, Mr Sprem, Vice President Leko or anyone else can guarantee me or any of you that we can speak freely, yes or no. That I can freely perform if I have to, yell, gesture, polemize, swear, defend my opinion, call someone after this pay phone, yes or no. So I'm only talking about performances only for this speaker, I'm not even talking about street performances, in some political stands I'm already talking about behind this pay phone even though I think that every MP's statement in some way, especially if it isn't called for some hate, war, etc., should be protected by the Constitution, or by the Rules of Procedure, because I believe that freedom of speech must be our job. If one of us sued a journalist it would certainly be a disaster and it was a disaster to sue a medium, but when the media and the most powerful in Croatia with a budget of 1.5 billion kuna sues the MPs and then because of the policy of irrevocableness nobody will talk about it in these circumstances. And now I'm saying, come on easy for $15,000, it's not a small amount of money, but it's one of our salaries, so let's just take it easy. But if there are 200 thousand kunas what then, a man can just hang himself behind this pay phone and I don't know what else to do. I don't know what else to do. How to simply protect ourselves from this abuse of both the Constitution and the Croatian Rules of Procedure and the spirit of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm thinking, I don't have to be right, that even if we can't intervene in the Constitution we should sort of regulate our Rules of Procedure, stop the abuse of individuals or some institutions, one word stop them from playing with Parliament and parliamentism. Why, if, on the basis of one precedent, no irreparable damage was done the next day, but not now to one of the MPs, but to parliamentism in the Republic of Croatia. As far as other provisions are concerned, Article 6 of the Club of Representatives has the right to hire one official, etc., that is correct, but what it says is that gentlemen are representatives of 'one man band', representatives of 'donos' laws, representatives by hand or by pressing that button one word determine opportunities in Croatia. Representatives should anticipate opportunities in Croatia. At the club of 3,4,5.6 MPs, if I'm not mistaken, comes one secretary and one official or official. Every referent in this country has a broader diapazon of associates, and the Parliament passed laws. What did I do to Vinkovic? In the constituency of the constituency, there is no table, we receive people by house, by inn, by taverns, by waitresses, and it has its advantages, and it is not always to be rejected, but it is simply the truth. Look at what our constituency offices look like, so it's a shame and then someone tells you what kind of parliament your country is. What that street looks like under the government, AG Matosha. What a street someone's gonna say to a country like that. I have the impression that every executive authority in this country corresponds to a weak parliament and it is not good for Croatia. Strong Parliament strong Croatia, strong Parliament strong state, weak Parliament subdued simply by Croatia. And all of this would change not by political alchemy and this new electoral legislation that is now being offered, Croatia into five electoral units than if MPs were elected directly to this Parliament. Then, according to the representative, the party receives 350 thousand kuna. It should be clearly invested not only in the financing of the secretariat of a particular party but also in the Office of Representatives in a local unit. We de facto have a seat outside of Zagreb, here we have this table, but you live in Split, Dubrovnik, Rijeka and it should also be regulated in some way. This way, party bureaucrats generally have five times as many as the MPs they usually live on. Article 7, our secretaries at the clubs, they're on time. All our secretaries, like us, are on the market, so it's no wonder that when the first opportunity is offered, they all immediately flee to the ministry. Article 30.b I think it is correct, that in the workplaces of a representative person’s clubs, they can be admitted to the state service for a certain period of time without the previous implementation of a public tender or a public service ad. Why is it correct, so that someone doesn't infiltrate someone, some other political options, even though we wouldn't have a hard time working with anyone. Article 15, okay, it's good to introduce this small economy here, it's the key to the movement of the Republic of Croatia because right now that small economy employs about 750 thousand people and if someone can get a job outside the state service right now can get it right in that small economy. As far as the replica is concerned, that is, an incorrect quote, okay, but we need to be fair about it, too. An incorrect quote is the tool of the opposition, and that's clear. How, the laws are explained by members of the government, they have the right to those 30 minutes of opening appearance, and then as long as they want to come forward after 10 minutes, they have the right to final vote again. The wrong allegation means as the opposition's tool is used as a rule, we've done it in opposition and it's done by the opposition now, in order to neutralize those 30 minutes of exposure to the government's representatives and that's it. If we use that as a replica now, it may take gentlemen a while. The minister will be able to replicate every replica on the correction under the allegations of false allegations or replicas. It can be turned like this into a good hour of intro persuasion in some of the country's relations. Maybe, but I do know that again it is not correct to be able to present the minister to have a replica of not knowing a representative of the club etc. But let's think about it clearly. And about another detail that I was talking about in 2000, so I was attacked by a dog car, but interestingly in the Horizon - the evening list of May 19th, something about it is written by Prof. It's about the immunity of members of the government. Whether the Government, but well regulated by their Rules of Procedure, has or needs that immunity or should be performed without immunity. And to quote, if I have so much time, this Professor. Branka Smerdel, who says, "Freedom of speech as well as all other freedoms and rights has been created as a protection against the true authority that hides itself by the name of executives." The important thing is, says the second Voltaire statement, it's dangerous to be right when the government is wrong. All are guaranteed freedom of opinion and expression of opinion. People's MPs are granted special rights, they must speak without fear of persecution in public affairs, so the democratic constitution guarantees them immunity of irresponsibility and immunity of non-violence. We can see he's not guaranteeing it. A representative cannot be arrested or prosecuted without Parliament's approval. A representative may not be called on to be held liable, detained or punished for an opinion or vote in Parliament. There's no need to protect ministers like that. They are protected by the power that brings them their position, etc., etc. I really propose these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and I really ask you MPs to consider the Institute of Immunity, or should that immunity protect us from civil and legal responsibility for the spoken word for this speaker. Nothing more, nothing less, and I think the vast majority of MPs can accept such one of my proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8367	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8368	I'd like to correct the distinguished Mr. Cain who may have told the great truth about the Croatian Parliament. Namely, his allegations that MPs under quotes are making laws in the Croatian Parliament seem to be responding to the truth. Because the laws are obviously brought by better bosses, the big heads of the party, their smiling face, and probably the opinion that often advocates as people as they were in the previous assembly disagrees with their own opinion, but votes for such and such legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8369	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8370	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In such adopted amendments to the Rules of Procedure, besides harmonising with constitutional changes in political terms, the government will dominate the Croatian Parliament. The government and the ruling majority, and the opposition position will be weakened in terms of the possibility of using different so far available methods of parliamentary outwitting. And that's true. Secondly, I express great disagreement with the procedure that preceded the opening of this debate in the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Leco, representing the procedure so far, has not told all the truth. The truth is that the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament has initiated amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure and called on the Clubs of Representatives to do so in the text agreed there and to show their signs of delivery to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system which several committees have done, and all these indications to the members of the Committee on the Constitution were not given for consideration, delivered or handed over at the moment when the text of the decision today was established on the Committee on the Constitution. From the explanation that we received for the committee session, it was clear that the basis of the invitation of the Croatian Parliament Presidency was delivered to the board by the clubs of representatives of Croatian Labourers, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Pensioners, representatives Branko Vukšić, Ivan Grubišić and Jakša Baloević, Ruža Tomasic, Damir Bajs. And several other civil society organisations and associations have already addressed the Committee before with different proposals on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. If these documents and those obvious board members were given in the first phase of the procedure I might, I don't say yes, but perhaps the text of the proposed amendments and additions would be something different. It's about the procedure so far. Of course, my exposure to dissatisfaction was called an incident behavior. Incidential behaviour is when there are indications, and the board members who determine the proposal for a decision are not available. Furthermore, I will not comment on what the motion for a decision says except for the whole debate that comes down to tiles that bother someone. To me personally, pick up all those plates you've shared I won't miss any, but most club members are opposed to abolishing the institute of correcting the incorrect allegations, so I'll support the majority's decision. Secondly, are we ready to open the debate and to take a political stance and decision and to impose sanctions in the Croatian Parliament, as a model for the European Parliament, punishment for non-sessions, especially on the day of the vote? Whether we are ready to open this topic and put into the Rules of Procedure that the parliamentary representative is paid to reduce the x percent for any non-receivement to the session, especially at the session when the vote is held. If he does not already want to take part in the debates, the motions of the MP's obligations are to come to the vote and influence any way with its vote in the decision to be made. Therefore, such practice exists in the European Parliament. If we are in line with Europe in everything, let us agree with this and establish monetary sanctioning in the Rules of Procedure. What is not available in the proposal for a Rules of Procedure, i.e. the amendment to Article 209 which is proposed by me, is also a huge risk for us at the club of Croatian Labourists. Today I heard a rather strange explanation from the chairman of Mr. Lek's board. I've been reading the amendment and supplemental text carefully, and I can't accept it. Namely, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, all right, and it's about reducing the maneuvering space of abuse of a plate of violations of the Rules of Procedure. However, there are situations here in the Assembly that are not mere supremacy, but where there can indeed be injuries to the Rules of Procedure, not by intention but by misrepresentation or ignorance in key moments. For example, Articles 203 to 205. The rules of procedure, when establishing the agenda, of Article 225 of the quorum-setting issue, Article 230, may require a re-vote on a point already held and the restrictions that exist there. If, at least, the Representatives' Club will not have the power to crack the Rules of Procedure's breach and try to lead the chairperson to respect the Rules of Procedure, and it does not immediately agree by the Chairman, then the subsequent Rules of Procedure of the Committee should not make any sense, but should then interrupt the session, in a break call the Committee immediately and make the final decision. What is the benefit of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, fourteen days later, to establish that the way in which the agenda was defined was not in the Rules of Procedure or that the quorum was not established, or that it was established as provided for in the Rules of Procedure if it is an important decision which must be made clear at that time. Or a question that, by which qualified majority, most of the votes that the law in the House must be passed. It is increasingly common to us that the Constitutional Court abolishes the laws because we have not adopted them by the intended majority, whether written in the Constitution or in our Rules of Procedure. In addition, the fact that, at the previous current morning, the President of the Parliament gave each member of the government four minutes to respond, which was provided for only as a possibility in the Rules of Procedure, so this possibility turned into a rule without a member of the Government demanding an extension of time to the Rules of Procedure. We consider it necessary then in the Rules of Procedure, that whoever responds to the minister takes four minutes, that the representative, after that response, expresss his satisfaction, has the right to two minutes not one minute. Furthermore, the minister's right to answer parliamentary questions only has four minutes if requested, not with automation. Because I don't believe all the questions are so complex that it takes him four minutes. We don't even have a regulated situation so far when the prime minister represents a government and government programme. According to the current Rules of Procedure, no one can be asked. Why don't we introduce that the candidates, even the prime minister himself, answer the questions of the club representatives, what are we afraid of? The government's programme is a document, the personality of a single candidate for a member of the government is an argument, a orientation for which a representative can be used during the decision-making process. So that's what we propose to be the subject of the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, the government must give an opinion on opposition proposals, according to our Rules of Procedure, but it does not say within which period, two years, three years, until the end of the term of office. And this happens in practice that not giving an opinion on the opposition government's proposal obstructs the opening of the debate. We propose that the deadline within which the Government must provide an indication is 30 days, that the working bodies must consider these proposals within 15 days of being included in the agenda, and that the President of the Assembly must include all proposals which, the drafts of the law get back 15 days and the other documents within eight days. That is, our proposal in half the deadlines that the Rules of Procedure has so far been provided for. Why? The HDZ, its coalition up to a maximum of eight years, used practice to wait for opposition proposals to be included on the agenda for an average of a year and a half, and another six months for the government to give an opinion and four months for the working bodies to open up their opinions in order to get the conditions for the plenary session to open. If we really care about the dignity and reputation of the Assembly, such practice must immediately be disabled by the Rules of Procedure and the draft laws and other documents coming from the opposition order must have protected deadlines and mechanisms. And it cannot depend on the will of anyone who determines the draft agenda, whether or not the Government, which obstructs parliamentary debate and weakens the position of opposition. It is a minimum of honesty and correctness of the ruling majority towards the opposition to allow, allow, and the Rules of Procedure must prescribe the safeguards that we do not have so far or so, and therefore there is manipulation or are simply so long that from handing over the bill until its entry into the agenda it takes several months. And I'll end up with the next one, interrupting the session for more than seven working days should make it impossible to continue and then move on to calling for a new session, because these manipulative moves to interrupt the session and continue for three weeks, four weeks have only one function to prevent calling for a new session for the current morning, and thus we come into a situation that during one calendar year, the Parliament has five, six possibly seven current mornings. The session may take three months and once called, but the suspension for more than seven days must be a condition for calling a new session in order to force the ruling majority and the government to answer opposition parliamentary questions. All the things that I have now said, and some other things, our club of representatives has given in its statement to the Committee on the Constitution, which unfortunately has not even discussed, and perhaps some of these solutions would already be in the proposal itself. And finally, I ask again if our aim is to change the Rules of Procedure and if it is to claim that those tiles annoy the citizens and reduce the reputation and integrity of the Parliament, for a reason, one of the reasons for changing the Rules of Procedure, then the citizens resent when they see a half-empty hall and even when it is a vote. Why not lay down in the Rules of Procedure a provision on the financial punishment of members of the Parliament, MPs and MPs who do not carry out their duties at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8371	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8372	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Party of the Serbian Rules of Procedure and the debate on the Rules of Procedure understands as an opportunity, for this and for how to strengthen and increase the quality of the debate in the Croatian Parliament as a reasonable, balanced and best arguments of the debate. This is why congregations usually exist and otherwise parliaments exist. They do not exist because of the headlines of newspapers, neither do they exist because of the evening news, but they exist because in this place and in this space people chosen from one another and compete in the quality of the debate and the exchange of arguments in favour of what they believe, as well as in the contribution of those chosen. We did this ideal despite changing our Rules of Procedure several times, and today we're going to change, I'm afraid we're not even close to reaching. In some things, we're moving away from him. Our Parliament is very often not here, our Parliament is very often in the press room. Our Parliament is very often not here, our Parliament is in an editorial room on Prisavlje, and for that, colleagues and colleagues are no one's fault for us. This is neither our fault nor our fault, nor our fault, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. None of these three tiles we have available to establish communication with the chairman and to establish communication with the agenda point and to establish communication with members of the Government. Therefore, it is a matter that the Rules of Procedure should be at the service and should be improved. The second thing that seems important to me is Parliament's relationship to the government. Parliament's attitude towards the government is, unfortunately, not stronger, but generally weak. The weak at the level of the board, because the committees, unfortunately, are not where they are previously discussed, decides, and then here, more or less only votes are being voted or possibly further extended the debate that was on the board. Our committees are mostly flow boilers of greater or less capacity in which water is slightly sooner or slightly slower heated. But otherwise for that role they should play in Parliament, unfortunately they still don't. And what I would like to say to the promoter now, our esteemed colleague who I know believes in what I believe, we should actually work to strengthen and strengthen the role of the committee. For without a committee honors the exceptions of the board and the presidents of the committee who seek and the number of meetings. It's not about how many times we sit here and take part in the debate. The point is how many days we will spend in Parliament's overall work, and one of the important components of Parliament's work are committees, are preparations for this committee. It's not about hitting an MP just in his pocket if he doesn't come to the vote, it's about allowing him and allowing himself to have a quality prepared debate like you do, and that means everyone has them. Are there any assumptions about that? For most MPs in the Croatian Parliament there is no such thing as no one. For this debate in order for any of us to be prepared, it was necessary to make at least a comparative insight into three to five Parliaments of the Member States of the European Union as they resolve it. How it solves Great Britain with a long tradition of business regulation, how it solves the Federal Republic of Germany, how it solves Austria or Slovenia or Italy. Is that done? It's not. How many club representatives have such a service that they can do it? Very little or little. Maybe for the club president and possibly the one who decides to discuss it, but most others don't. So I suggest we fight for it, too. And finally, our communication with the public, with those who should actually contribute to understanding our messages, unfortunately, is such that we in this Parliament have very often sent messages that were messages of hatred, ideological and political intolerance, that we have sent messages that did not correct the quality of the perception of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but only more or less contributed to us being understood as people who do not here do the work necessary to perform. For this reason, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, although it does not belong to clubs that have particularly often reached for any of these three tiles could be counted on the fingers of one hand since I was in the Assembly to reach for any of these tiles. Similarly, the replicas or corrections of incorrect allegations that came from colleagues and colleagues to our speeches could be counted on the fingers of one hand. Therefore, we do not have any particular motive for our pro domo to represent a particular solution in the Rules of Procedure. But limiting the ability of parliamentary representatives to participate in the debate is not a good measure even when many abuse it. And we understand, Mr. President, that this is not a simple job for either you or your vice presidents to deal with those who abuse and who do not respect the procedure even when you reach for extreme measures such as taking the right word or as it was in the last term when it reached for a distance from this Chamber. But there is no doubt that it will not resolve the Rules of Procedure or limit the rights. It is simply a matter of our relationship with such colleagues or colleagues and it is a question of voter relations to them. The one who takes the risk of destroying the elemental values here, the clarity, calmness and thinkingfulness in the debate, the risk of never coming to this Parliament again. And such times are no doubt the times in which we live, and such times are before us. There have been times in which it has been a good way to come to Parliament and to advocate parliamentaryism, but such times are from us. And that's why it seems to me that reaching out for a restriction because of maybe a number of people who still believe that this is the way they can act and how they can represent their beliefs and those they represent, is not the best solution. So as for the relationship between the replica and the correction of the incorrect quote, there is a reason why this difference is made and why these two possibilities are established, there is, because they regulate completely two different things. That's what I was talking about on the Constitutional Committee, correcting an incorrect quote about what we're saying about some facts about whether today's a nice day or not, if we look out the window, we'll see that it's not, but of course figuratively we can say it's beautiful because we can think of something else. But when it comes to projections about how tomorrow will be, how growth policy will grow, which will be GDP next year, of course needs to be replicated. Therefore, there may be a reason for this kind of restriction in this House to achieve some kind of clarity because what my colleague Leko said, it is true that of the 100 interventions that the MPs asked for with tiles 90 probably referred to the correction of the incorrect allegations. Of these 90 corrections, it is likely that 80 had nothing to do with correcting an incorrect quote but correcting an opinion, a statement of attitude, or a court of law on something. And if it helps people learn, we won't object to the replica covering both. But when it comes to violations of the Rules of Procedure, the way this is proposed to regulate the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is that we think that the right of counsel in matters where it should not be limited. The chairman, his desk, his associates or associates, whether the president or vice presidents have and must have the opportunity to assess whether or not he is talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. If a representative or representative or a club or clubs do not agree with this, then it can go to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure and do so immediately, if necessary. And limit it to 24 hours, indeed, as some observe, it can lead to the situation of individual MPs and MPs that in the last day of the session they actually no longer have time for serious objection and for serious elaborate. For this reason we propose two things, Mr. President, that the chairman has the powers that he should actually have under the Rules of Procedure, which is that he is the keeper of the Rules of Procedure, and not only the one who gives and takes away the word and announces the subject, but also the keeper of the Rules of Procedure. And it's actually the most prominent, most important thing the chairman has. In keeping with the Rules of Procedure, there are also some of the fundamental values of our Constitution. And we should never, in any way, take the chair away from that position, that role and that authority, however difficult it may be, however delicate it may be, and no matter how difficult it may be sometimes be. But Mr. President, fellow vice presidents and colleagues of the Vice-President of this House, you will surely have in us those who will support you in assessing for yourself whether anyone has the basis to seek word based on a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not, whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Secondly, if it is already a request from the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, then we suggest that this extends from 24 hours to a longer period, especially because of the circumstances in which this can happen in the last day of the meeting of the Assembly, and especially because it can be done with delicate matter, which, given the circumstances in which MPs and representatives of this Assembly are working, may take longer to write an explanation and that this explanation would have the same quality that it takes for you to be accepted by you, Mr. President, with the members of the board, to be held in dispute as suitable for discussion. Here are our thoughts regarding that part of the Rules of Procedure concerning the space for participation in the debate they should have or may have representatives and representatives. Otherwise, we think that a high standard of modelling and moderation has been established in the current way of managing these sessions in the debate with those who sat at this table, starting from you, Mr. President, and beyond. And I don't think there should be any fear that this moderation will not be further strengthened and will not continue to strengthen. And that, for this reason, it is necessary to remove the objection that there is a need to limit the debate area precisely because the chair and chair table could have difficulties that occurred in the earlier period, which is that the debate of competition and exchange in arguments has grown into destruction and has not grown into obstruction, but has grown into destruction of parliamentary debate and parliamentary debate. And that is why we encourage you to stay on that line and accept these two remarks that, if necessary, we will invest in the form of amendments on behalf of the SDSS Club of Representatives. As far as the replica is concerned, if it can cover the correction of an incorrect quote and a replica, we will not insist on proposing an amendment in this matter. As for other parts, in those other parts, we are broadly in agreement, with what we really need to propose to increase the public work of the working bodies, in particular the committee and to think about how and how committees that can have a special interest in the public are more open to work than they have been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8373	Thank you very much. Of course, this debate, which is in the first reading, is precisely intended to ensure that all reasoned discussions at this session are fully respected and that another debate at the Bureau of Parliament is held, that the views between all clubs as much as possible and, of course, on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that has the hardest work to prepare the matter so that we can be as satisfied as possible here as possible and, of course, on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that has the hardest work to prepare the matter so that we can all be as satisfied as possible. The word has on behalf of the HNS club Mr. Representative Igor Coleman, and I noticed that in the application you share your presentation with Mr. Baranovic, so I am just announcing it. Here, you have a total of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8374	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Proposer's representative, respected colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the proposer himself said in the opening statement that these amendments, i.e. the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, were materially divided into three groups. The first group is to coordinate with the new structure of the state administration and the HNS club here does not, of course, have any specific objections, but at first I would like to point out something that is already before me and I think it is good, also mentioned by colleague Cain and colleague Pupovac. The Croatian Parliament is one of those state administration institutions that has too few employees, so the Parliament's professional services are excellent, there are very good and very qualified people, however, too few. And in the discussions held in Croatia about the number of employees in state administration bodies, and then it is considered that there are too many employees, and for some to be considered to have too few employees, our opinion is that the Parliament is one of those bodies that has too few employees. This is the topic that awaits us, indeed and what Pupovac was talking about, supporting MPs unfortunately is not enough to be fully in the way that we are expected to do and in the way that it is actually our job to participate in all aspects of the work of the Croatian Parliament. The second group are provisions that are in line with the Constitution and previous legislative changes and the third group of changes have been seen through parliamentary practice. One of the changes that we like and which we think are good is the expansion of the number of committees that may have outside members, however, the immediate note, the participation of external members in the work of the Board of the Croatian Parliament should be regulated more precisely. Namely, because of the way the Parliament works, because of how the meetings are convened, because of the often very short deadlines in which they are convened, and many of you or some of you have had that experience, which were once external members of the board. It is very difficult for people who, of course, have their jobs, have their careers, have our professions, so we invited them to be board members, it is difficult to coordinate the schedules in such a short time, and it often happens that people who can really make a quality contribution to the work of the board simply cannot come to the committee session because of the way these meetings are convened. On the other hand, it seems to me that a possible contribution other than the participation in the session of the external members may not be sufficiently clearly defined and sufficiently clearly regulated. We should see here how all these professional external members can participate in the work of the committee and beyond the very arrival of the committee. Otherwise, as for changes in the names and responsibilities of the board, we have one concrete remark here, we will also have an amendment, but then in the second part of the presentation, a colleague, Petar Baranovic, will talk about it. Of course, the question of which is obviously the most attention, however, has taken this relationship to correct the incorrect allegations and replicas. In our opinion, the correction of the incorrect assumption is, in its essence, in the idea with which it is set as an institute is actually a good idea and something that really has its own purpose and role. So that's, the point of correcting the incorrect assumption is to correct the factual inaccuracies in the debate. So I say in the debate that in the last three years, GDP has dropped 3% in Croatia, then one of the colleagues or colleagues in HDZ reports and says no, it's not true, GDP has fallen to a full 7%. Unfortunately, unfortunately, this institute corrects an incorrect allegation, all of us are aware, in the vast majority of cases it has been misused or in a way that corrects an opinion, attitude, which is not a correction of an incorrect quote, or that it was actually used because of the fact that you do not have the right to answer the correct statement. It was used exclusively to disqualify a political opponent. What should be pointed out is that the replica in the way it is proposed does not, of course, eliminate the possibility of correcting each other's incorrect allegations, but what we consider to be positive in the club of the HNS and what we are going to support in this proposal is precisely that this solution introduces the principle that the original speaker, therefore the one to whom it is replicated, or whose incorrect quote is corrected, has the right to do so in that correction of the incorrect quote then and final answer, and that seems simple in the way it works, so if you want and in the dignity of the Assembly representative, it seems to us the principle of what is actually to be led and which, in this situation, change is absolutely acceptable and which we in the HNS will, and therefore accept this proposal as well. As for the replicas of the club and the representative of the Government, or the representative of the promoter, we are not so sure here. Of course there are no simple solutions, there are no unambiguous solutions for which we can say with 100% certainty that they are correct or wrong. But it seems to us that the whole parliamentary debate about some bill proposal or some other proposal is actually in some way a replica of the motion and therefore the big question is whether then the proponent should really enable this kind of replication and then the potential loss of time when the whole debate on the bill is one huge replica of all of us on this proposal that is being discussed. On the other hand, exposure on behalf of the club is, in fact, in some way, the setting up of the field we play, each of us representing his club in this introductory presentation setting the ground in some way, the basic political thesis on which we "play" in that debate and then the other discussions are actually part of the then answer and the political foundations on which we are going. So it seems to us, at one point and I suggested, so this variant that Cain suggested, that perhaps at the presentation of the promoter and the club's exposure indeed, then the right to replicate if there is indeed one representative after the club. But I'm saying it's something that needs to be considered further. The HNs Club will, of course, support these proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, but I would like to do so before I give my word to my colleague, Peter Baranovic, I would just like to say that we see these amendments to the Rules of Procedure more as an introduction to a broad debate, not as the end of these changes. What we have here in the House as some of the problems we have located and which I would like to point out and which we seem to need to start solving both business and other ways. First of all, I have talked about this, the lack of people who support the work of the Parliament in terms of professional services. So, in reforming and rationalising the state administration, it seems to us that the Parliament is one of those state administration institutions that has too few employees and should be enriched if you want an additional number of professional employees who can really do so. You are all communicating with colleagues and colleagues from other parliaments, correct me if I am wrong, but you know that this kind of professional support in the vast majority of European and world parliaments is really much higher than it is in the Croatian Parliament. And that's something to start thinking about in the long run. The second role of the committee is in the legislative process, but also in the political process in the Republic of Croatia. We are actually as representatives, as a system, concentrated here on this hall, on this plenary session for no reason at all to enter which, never mind, our committees are really like some necessary evil, by the way, in this legislative process. They also, of course, have too little professional support, but they too, in fact, play their role in the legislative process is not what the role of the committee should be. And that's why it happens to happen to the situation that it seems like sitting in a plenary session is the only thing actually MPs do, and then if they're not there, they should be fined. And on the other hand, we have really brought committees to this level that, in the vast majority of cases, apart from the honorable exceptions that there are always, the committees are really more on the road than actually a fundamental and key part of the legislative process that is our basic and key job here. That I am not talking at all about subcommittees that we don't actually know, and I'm not talking about the practices that some parliaments have, which have shown themselves where there are good ones, which is more or less a permanent organisation of representatives on certain issues and past party memberships. So, depending on some subject and interest that we believe is important and should be organised in the Assembly, so we do not know all the forms and institutes in the Croatian Parliament at all. The third item is the predictability of Parliament's work, predictability of procedures. When's it coming to the agenda? How long will this debate take? Should the debate last as long as it lasts? Are we still going to stay on this model for 15 minutes, 10 minutes, or are we going to facilitate the predictability of work, to make it easier for both the public and the media and ourselves and the committees to think eventually about the model in which there is some time to discuss, and then depending on the number of time reported, it allocates to all those who have applied. So, I only say as a suggestion, but the problem that we have in Parliament's work is that it's hard to predict things on the agenda, it's hard to predict how long the debate will last, especially in some longer time. And last but not least, my colleague Leko was already talking about it, but on behalf of the HNS Club, I'd like to do it again. Croatia's entry into the EU puts the Parliament in a great danger if we are not really smart and cautious here, which is that one of the wrong steps in the legislation, but also in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which is related to it, we can indeed be put into a situation to be excluded from the decision-making process at EU and Croatian level. And it is indeed a great danger for the Croatian Parliament and, of course, then ultimately for the Republic of Croatia as a parliamentary democracy. So, this is really the last one, lastly, I quote it, but perhaps a key topic which is why we are expecting representatives to discuss the amendments to the Rules of Procedure soon and again. And now a co-worker of Baranovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8375	The rest of the time foreseen for discussion on behalf of the HNS club will be used by a respected representative of counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8376	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, I will pay attention to an audience of one perhaps for most formalism and one thing that makes the vast majority of you indifferent, however, in any case not to the people of which I have come to this Assembly, it is about what is in this proposal the amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed in Article 31, which is a change in the name of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries. It is predicted that the future committee is only called the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, which is what those professions and those people who sent me here and I personally and also consider the club of the HNS unacceptable. We are ladies and gentlemen of the maritime land. So we are much more famous in the world than any other profession, any other branch of science, anything else that characterizes this beautiful country. In maritime and fishing we are the top, the world's very top, the best fishermen, the best marine commanders, the best experts in the field of fishing science, the best experts in the area of international law of the sea. We are a Adriatic and maritime country described as green and blue. In this House there have also been some decisions made in the last 10 years that I personally consider very questionable and problematic, all of you senior parliamentary representatives you know is about ZERP. Decisions were made on behalf of several policies, higher goals, higher interests of the national peoples, who made all of Dalmatia, Istria and Primorje humbled, sad, sad. It was crying, ladies and gentlemen, on fishing boats of torment when those decisions were made, but we made these decisions stoic, male as people who have always stood by the national interests of this country. At that time, we felt that for this injustice and such disqualification of the fact that we are a Adriatic and maritime country there was reason that it was not a fruit and a product just because... the idea was dominant in this country unfortunately compared to the Adriatic but we felt that there were more interests and we did not make big problems about it. Although today we suffer huge damages and the existence of Croatian fishermen is also at stake because of this decision. However, there is absolutely no excuse for this decision to delete fishing from official documentation and Croatian Parliament acts. There is no excuse either on the basis of the fact that agriculture, with all due respect and kindness to my fellow farmers who I value as much as my fellow fishermen, is not the same as fishing for certain related reasons, is in the same and rational reasons in the same ministry, but neither the CNS nor the people who sent me to this Assembly agree to the fact that fishing is being wiped out of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and even less from the title of the resolution ministry. For that reason, we will make an amendment and hope that there will be enough reason, sufficient tolerance and enough correctness to at least not to be wronged in this act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8377	Thank you. We've just run out of time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. We are now going to correct incorrect allegations, the first distinguished representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8378	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, now I've almost been in a position to correct, a colleague of Baranovic's or a colleague of Coleman's, but, uh, a colleague of Coleman's will be corrected. Namely, he incorrectly said that the Institute of Inaccuracy was often misused and used to discredit rivals. I say that it is incorrect, the Institute of Inaccuracy has contributed to the dynamics of the debate, the presence of course greater to this assembly and the quality of the debate, because if I hadn't followed you here now, I wouldn't have even raised the correction of the incorrect allegations, and I saw what would be predictable, and it's predictable for us to mutilate the possibilities of these corrections that we won't be able to contribute to the quality, everyone in their own way is not, not everyone's destined to be some great orator or expert, but in my own way I want to articulate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8379	Here's the classic example, the false use of the Institute's plates to correct an incorrect quote. We'll hear another one, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8380	Colloman said that our debate is actually a kind of replica to a government member, or government, which I think is incorrect, it's a replica on the subject. I don't need to be afraid, but it seems to me that Mr. Coleman was defending the ability to tell the government's representative in the eyes what a single parliamentary representative meant. So the replica to a member of the government makes sense, I don't know if there's any sense in the response of a member of the government because actually this House is in the position of being a pure, simple voting machine, everything is brought in even though this one, here is heard different, different opinions from the ruling coalition, be assured on Friday, everyone will vote the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8381	And this was a correction of opinion, not an individual assumption. We continue to discuss clubs, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club and the individual debates of our representatives will concern some specific issues, and I will remain as long as possible on some of the general assessments of this proposal and unlike perhaps expected beginnings. I would like to commend the motionor, and it appears that he is not the Government, but this time, the Assembly Committee, because this document has come in two readings. Well, at least in that I find the difference between practice so far because most of the laws, as far as they were in front of this house, have gone mostly by emergency procedure and have often offended the Rules of Procedure that we are going to talk about today and try to make it better and more correct than it has ever been before. The reasons for the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which the Proposer stated, lie on several grounds, is one to prevent the abuse or abuse of the institute, and this was most often the correction of an incorrect allegation. The second reason is to comply with the Civil Service Act. The third is the alignment with the amendments to the Constitution which I will not comment on because one piece of technical work has been done correctly. However, these two reasons that you have stated lead us to comment immediately on something that has existed so far and does not justify you stating these reasons for amending the Rules of Procedure. Namely, the abuse of the Institute of Correction of the False Allegation, if we testify every day, happens by the assessments of many in this House, has so far had protection, or abuse could have prevented all those measures that were available to the President's desk but the question is how often, how often, and how useful you have so far used. Furthermore, there are provisions of the Rules of Procedure which do not change, and they state that the chairpersons have the presidency and the participation and the specific articles set out, the maintenance of the order and the strict measures that move from the notice to the individual representative to the distance from the session. I wonder, when everyone was irritated by the abuses of the institute, why didn't they use measures to prevent such an act of counsel? However, this brings me to something much more important, and this is a question of whether it is really normal for us Rules of Procedure to have more provisions on order and strict measures than we have on the rights and freedoms of MPs in this House of Representatives. And that's the topic I wanted to dedicate this exposure to on behalf of the HDZ Club. Democracy is achieved by the rule of the majority, and none of us are contentious, but at the same time it is equally important to achieve freedom, including freedom and freedom and the right to a spoken word. The measures you're introducing under this Rules of Procedure, under the firm, I'd say I don't know what the terms were, but the dynamics of the debate actually have a completely different effect behind them. You are making it impossible, and that is what the predecessors have already told the representatives of the Croatian Parliament to give their opinion using different instruments. So why limit that freedom only to an instrument or an institute of replicas, and not to allow them to use all possible institutes to express their views and thus present that part of the public that gave them confidence and voice to meet as their representatives in Parliament. The right to the spoken word asphyxiation of the Rules of Procedure that we are talking about has the power of the law is something which, in the parliamentary practice of the Croatian Parliament, is an unremembered approach and seems to me a very dangerous approach to restricting the right to speak and to deliver its own opinion, which, of course, is aimed at something else. It aims at what I initially said is that the rule of the majority in democracy is a normal way of doing business, but not to protect the position of the executive authority to the extent that the executive power is placed above Parliament and that in Parliament it is the executive power that has the last and decisive word on any subject that Parliament will discuss. That is a violation, it is also in line with the provisions of the Croatian Constitution, it is in line with the principles of the government's trinity and it is in line with the principles of parliamentary democracy. And that is why I think that all the reasons that you have stated for the individual institute to be abolished by this Rules of Procedure are not even worth the same damage that you are doing, which is to prevent the representatives from giving their opinion on any subject and any moment for the session of the Croatian Parliament. The second thing that also came from the leadership of the Croatian Parliament is the fact that they called for individual defending the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and individual representatives. By doing so, you are disrupting the capacity of MPs, thereby making it impossible for MPs to deliver opinions on certain topics at any time of the session, not to speak of all other rights of MPs who have been reduced, and now the right to deliver their opinions is reduced. You leave this right in one replica institution or some large and difficult procedure in writing as to how it will be referred to, and we will try to explain this on the example of what you have, after correcting the incorrect allegations that has been thrown out of the possibility of intervention of an individual representative now de facto these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, will slightly complicate the possibility of affecting the infringements of the Rules of Procedure and the reaction to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, your proposal now calls for a representative to respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure to be required within 24 hours of the occurrence, from the moment he thinks that he has been injured, the Rules of Procedure shall refer the request to the Constitution Committee, which will then, within some subsequent time, decide whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured in a specific case. I ask you whether it will stop by that time with the session at which the Rules of Procedure has been injured or the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Committee will come within five days when that session has long ended and when it has become immaterial to decide whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured in a specific case. And to make the matter better and to say the seriousness of the proposal for this Rules of Procedure, the new institute is now called the announcement of a request for an opinion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I haven't seen more indifference like this in a long time, and I think that if something was already wanted to be done, that institute could be called a much clearer and much simpler name than what was proposed. Moreover, this Rules of Procedure, which were to be changed because there was a reason to change it, was then to be changed in a way that found what was important in it. Some colleagues have discussed what is important that it contains the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, but what is not the matter of the Rules of Procedure should also be thrown out, or if it had to be fully resolved. It is about the working relations of civil servants you said you were in line with the law, that is, the amendments to the Law on civil servants, and a number of articles have been introduced that speak of the fact that, without invitation to tender, officials can be admitted to the clubs of representatives of individual parliamentary parties. My question is, and what about all the other officers? If you have resolved the working relationship of some officials, then it was logical to resolve the working relations of all employees working in the Croatian Parliament and to comply with their working relations with the amendments of the law which is a bad proposal, so these solutions will also be bad, and that is what we pointed out in the debate when we talked about amendments to the Law on civil servants. And in a few years, the professional public will again, but probably also the policy will say that we have a massive, tropical, disorganized, inefficient state administration, and since coming to power of this government, you've been experimenting with civil servants just so that in a few years, everything that's been bad should be changed, that instead of a political return of a professional relationship to the state administration, and then one day we expect to have the state administration that we deserve. And what it looks like in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament except for the fact that you have solved only the question in the club representatives best says Article 8 of your proposal because you have introduced a new place called Deputy Secretary of Parliament's Assistant. So far, we've had a secretary, we've had a deputy, we've had assistants, but we haven't had deputies in the Parliament or any other body of the state administration. At least if we had them, they weren't based on the law. And all of this is completely unnecessary, because if you were to bring this Rules of Procedure into line with the provisions of the law, and recently you were in the Government, which has only one secretary, instituting the position of the Secretary-General of the Government, then maybe it was logical to introduce the Secretary-General of Parliament, so that his deputy secretary-in-chief of the plenary session would be a secretary, let's say that he has either him or the secretary-in-chief of one of the assistants, because he certainly needs them and I agree with my colleague Coleman that the professional service has been sub-cated in view of the demands made before Parliament. But this way, the assistant assistant secretary or similar structures, I don't think you're going to contribute to the development of state administration, professionalism, but rather, we're going to try to solve individual people's positions with palitative measures, ad hoc measures, rather than systematically address the issue of work. Therefore, if we are in favour of Parliament's dignity, and among other things, we have been told that we have time because in a year or even earlier we will have to re-change this Rules of Procedure because of the accession of the European Union, my only question is to the proposer and where were we in a hurry? Why didn't you wait for that moment, then systematically resolve the issue and working relations, the employees of the Parliament and the rights and obligations of the MPs, rather than leaving, abolished most of the rights, you left the obligations and what's ugliest for democracy, for the rule of law, for the free word, you left strict measures. The strict measures will eventually be the main part of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and our rights since we are now in opposition will be just one dream that we will dream of again in a few years when we come to power to introduce the rights that we have so far and that we have recognised our opposition while in opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8383	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Mlakar. By saying to the public that the Parliament was not and I hope it will not be the body of the state administration as you spoke of it. That's the most legislative thing, so Parliament isn't the body of the state administration like you talked about it. I don't know if it's a quote that Marin Jurjevic or anyone else would want to correct, but he answered his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8384	Thank you. Inaccurate... A colleague of the Mlakars who said that the measures envisaged limit the dignity of the MPs, prevents the freedom of the representative to deliver his opinion, chokes on the right to the spoken word, etc. These are really phrases because this is spreading the right to speak, increasing the dignity of parliamentary deputies by 2000 until then the coalition came to power was merely a correction of an incorrect quote, a one-way communication. [[The speaker is not understood for the announcement of the speaker.]] We have introduced the replica as a stronger form of communication between the representatives and the Prime Minister. After all, the replica lasts twice as long as the correction of the incorrect quote. At any moment you can speak more than you could before, you can get an answer and not just download it to the government. When you talk to me or I talk to one of you then you get often uses the argument of the correction to avoid hearing the answer. [[Intruder: Time.]] So it's getting stronger. Okay. Here I go. [[Intruder: Time fellow Jurovic.]] So it's not choking, it's not limiting itself, it's strengthening the right of every MP. And if anyone won't listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8385	Thank you. ... On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko, appeared. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Well, I just wanted to get back to you about the Rules of Procedure, not the polymize. It is a kind of sui generis law, and I have no right to decide what is to be found in the Rules of Procedure, nor is the criticism addressed to me. Therefore, it was nothing personal. Yeah, that's why I'm talking. So it doesn't matter. The parliament will adopt a Rules of Procedure as he believes acceptable to the current democratic situation in the Croatian Parliament and Croatian society. Whether the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System will consider proposals that have already come and suggestions, and have not been found in the Presidency's initiative well guessed, it is a matter of re-evaluating what will help and making it possible to hear politics and politics in the Croatian Parliament without being discredited or obstructed by any business opportunities or tricks of the Rules of Procedure. As for and now, there was mostly a debate about valid institutes, so correcting an incorrect quote, hurting the Rules of Procedure and the Replica, something a little later. I think a very interesting debate was held by a colleague of Cain's but she's only bound to the possibility of changing the Constitution. The immunity of the MPs cannot be arranged differently than it has been settled in Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia therefore "freedom and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, as well as legal order, public morality and health. Any restriction on freedom and rights must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case." So, counterpart Cain asked for immunity to mean and protection of MPs against civil liability. The question is, such protection is the issue of the Constitution, and we won't be able to solve it whether or not we should, that's another question, we won't be able to solve it through the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Cain's and others spoke about employment in the clubs of representatives and employment with some officials in the Croatian Parliament. It's just that the institute that the representatives' clubs could be hired without competitions has existed so far. We now, and I also consider it the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the political system by its decision that the proposal for an amendment is in a way more fair. Why? We retain the possibility to hire employees in clubs, but no longer to make it a fresher entry into the club and then to the Professional Service of the Parliament continue. So, we think that we should limit this institute so that employment can be without competition, but that the working relationship lasts while the term of office, the term of office in the Croatian Parliament of the club. So, we're closing the peaches so we can hire first through the small door to the club of representatives and then to the Professional Service and then to the management. I think you'll agree that's good. As far as hiring a number of officials in nature is concerned, it will be very small, but the institute is introduced by law. And that's where we think that responsibility is kind of increased in terms of officials. First of all, their choice is their choice, and they don't have to say so to hide behind the competition and pretend that they didn't choose their co-worker but clearly and responsibly they bring him in, with them leaving. So it is again limited as the term of office of officials, or the term of office of parliament, continues. As for some to put it, the views that are more disqualification than the help to resolve relations within the Parliament, that only speaks of the weakness of arguments. I think it is very important for us in the House to introduce the principle that it is not the rule of most people but the rule of law. That seems a small difference, but I think it's a copernicus turn. If we are in favour of the rule of law, then the majority and minorities and all citizens and all institutions must kneel before the rule of law, no matter what the majority is, how long it is and how long it will last. If that's how we approach things, and we think that's how we should approach the rights, then we can't just talk openly what we want, why we bring it in, and why behavior is in line with real needs. Around the institute, I think we have to agree that the replica is a wider or more substantial business institute than it is a correction of an incorrect assumption. So each of us, when he calls for a replica, can correct an incorrect quote, each and every one of us, and the Institute, when a correction of an incorrect quote appears if he has not corrected an incorrect quote, has already injured the Rules of Procedure. Then he did something he didn't report. So it's quite clear, so it spreads the term, it spreads the content also contains narrowness. And one of his colleagues was well noticed, I did not say it in the opening statement, it is really important to protect a speaker who expresses his policy or his policy that he can respond to the replica, not that he has disqualification through the incorrect correction of the incorrect quote, so that the desire and initiatives and proposals to democratisation communication in the Croatian Parliament are not discredited by speakers and policies that they represent and the interests they represent. Of course it is also envisaged that it will happen and it seems to me a consensus in the Croatian Parliament to strengthen the influence of external members in the work of the working bodies, the board of the Croatian Parliament. Here to say so, the consensus seems to help me to introduce this institute into almost all committees, all the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. There's still a debate on whether there are two existing boards of 20 or 30. I hope that's where we can reach our consensus. All initiatives and all proposals of that, which is already a non-business matter, that the mandater must come to the Croatian Parliament and respond to the demands of MPs and clubs is a matter that we have to settle some other regulations, not the Rules of Procedure. It's something that's not just a business provision. With regard to labour sanctions, we would have to introduce a new body that will be accompanied by the work of MPs, and the work of MPs is not only work in Parliament and speaking and representing in the Croatian Parliament but also in committees and in EU bodies and other bodies, so he is often a representative of the will of the leadership of the Assembly or of the need to represent Croatian interests in other bodies and institutions outside this speaker. We need to respect that, too. It means we're opening another problem, and I don't think citizens, voters, evaluate the work of MPs can replace any other institute. That's the sense of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8387	And that's where you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8388	Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8389	We have one correction on this exhibit. A colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct the incorrect allegation because it is truly incorrect, which speaks of these amendments to Rule 6 and 7 of the Rules of Procedure harmonising the working position of officials in the Clubs of Representatives and legalising their employment. In fact, this is absolutely not true since the Law on civil servants and tenants has been put out of force, except in terms of employment relations, i.e. about the wages. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure indicate that it is a matter of harmonisation with the law. This is not about harmonising with the law; it is about violating and ignoring the provisions of the Law on civil servants and tenants, which is an eclectic example in this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8391	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HSU Club, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8392	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. If by any chance today there were no institutes to correct the incorrect allegations I would not have had the pleasure of seeing my colleague Milinkovic correct Igor Coleman's colleague because he was said to be not a quote but a colleague of Igor Coleman. I see your colleague's still standing a little wrong. He's not fixed. Read the phonogram and you'll see that what I said is right, no offense, a little joke. The HSU Club took note of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and we have a lot of objections, but it is good indeed what is already said in the debate, it is good that this is in two readings so that our amendments we have prepared are not now in office but I will explain them for this speaker. First, we have our comments on Article 30, where it is and talks about hiring employees in club representatives. I think that, in any case, employment at a certain time corresponds to occasional jobs, not permanent jobs, and that is where employment is predicted for a certain time. I quote the Labour Act which says that a contract on work is concluded for a certain period of time for the employer's business and for the lack of an adequate need for labour, or for workers to be correct. Let's let go of the workforce, it's a story of the ratio of capital and labour. Therefore, it is not good for the Croatian Parliament to conclude work contracts for a certain period of time because this can be done technically differently. First, we put these people who would hire in a worse position. I can't get credits, I can't work, I can't get some work rights that normally relate to a work contract indefinitely. And of course it is known that if someone came to work, if in the next session of the Parliament there is no more club to stop the need to work, and of course that's the reason for getting a business suspended. And I think that in the Labour Act everything is said and I don't think that we in the Croatian Parliament have to hire for a certain period of time and be a bad example because 90.7% of new employees are employed at a certain time, which is not good. It's not good for family planning, it's not good for a lot of other things not to explain. Furthermore, we have some remarks on Article 20, of course we support in each case one part of the changes, one part of the need for amendments to the Rules of Procedure that contributes to harmonising the work of the Ministry and the work of the Committee, to bring the Rules of Procedure in line with the needs of practical digestion through the Croatian Assembly of European Problems. Therefore, there is no dilemma about the Croatian Party of Retirement Club that it is simply necessary to do so, but when we have already opened the whole Rules of Procedure, it would be good to correct the work of the Committee and, in particular, in the work of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, that is, the possible future name of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, we believe that there is much to be thrown out because one part of the work that is now defined in the Regulation belongs to construction, concrete housing. We don't have that kind of social housing that would be related to work anymore. That if an employer wants to address the housing needs of his deficit staff, it's more of an exception than it used to be. Furthermore, the rights of persons with disabilities are within the scope of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, and in the Committee on Labour belong to rights that are exclusively related to the situation of disabled workers, professional rehabilitation, the right to a disability pension, and therefore it is inappropriate to single out the rights of disabled persons because we do not, for example, single out. the right of women and men. They're unique, they're unique. All labour and pension rights shall apply equally to all persons. Furthermore, it is now said that the working body, in particular the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, edits and develops a system of bilateral and tripartite social dialogue. We have institutionalised social dialogue in the Republic of Croatia and this working body really cannot work. He can work on a good thematic conference, he can analyse the situation, so participants can say which way to go, but indeed the Parliament's working body is not in a position to develop a system of bilateral and three-way negotiations, i.e. social dialogue. They just have to do it on their own. Of course, when it comes to protecting the rights of former political prisoners, we feel that the War Veterans Committee is responsible for protecting all victims of totalitarian regimes, and that the Labour Committee as well as in previous cases of pension insurance and equal status. Furthermore, we have a special attitude regarding the external members of the parliamentary committees. We believe that quantity does not necessarily mean quality. That the fact that all committees would have outside members does not mean the quality of the work of the board does not mean, in particular, the way that so far has been reflected in the work of the Croatian Parliament that representatives are, for example, representatives. the multi-level unions were as representative associations in three or four committees. We need to locate exactly where they really are needed. It does not require this representativeness as much as it is said in today's presentation, it takes expertise in the work of the committee. We do believe that for the Committee on Labour, Social Partnership and Pension System that there are enough representatives of representative associations, but that we certainly need professionals on labour law and pension system experts if we want to do better than we have done so far. Otherwise, so far in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it was said that consultations with the interested public could be held in the process of passing laws, other regulations, when interested representatives could make their own contribution to the drafting of the draft law. I think it is good to open the Croatian Parliament and give the possibility of outside members, but there should be a good sense of measure between the quantity of external members and the real quality and expertise that we will have in the work tomorrow, which is necessary for the work of the board. Furthermore, we have one comment in Article 77(1) regarding the following, the work and social partnership Committee's work protection is explicitly stated. Thus, the opposite of the Law on Gender Equality is to make gender difference, the right to equal protection at work has all gender independent employees. So we propose to delete this about the part-time work of the Committee on Gender Equality. Thus, excessive double norms, i.e. even discriminatory, i.e. a conflict of positive and negative competences between working bodies. As regards the correction of the incorrect quote, we have also one amendment, i.e. related to the replica, because no amendment could be given to correcting the incorrect quote, but we cannot at the club of the Croatian party of pensioners be determined by principle or-or, we prefer that it is i-i, and that we also have a correction of the incorrect quote and replica. Why? So, or in the present state, why? The replica is a broader term, there is no, there is no slow, but there is exactly one expensive one, and that dynamic in correcting the incorrect quote because there is, so there are some skills that people have, a reaction at the moment, so that's what's expensive, there's a correction to the incorrect quote. By abolishing it, we will get one sterility in the debates, and if we put all of this into replicas, and especially if we have a replica of the promoter, so to a member of the government, the club president, in that case we risk quite a controversy, a lot of controversy and a lot of heavy reckoning. So the correction of the incorrect quote is actually one valve in which someone lifts the bat, corrects, gets a moment of attention maybe he did it correctly, maybe he didn't do it correctly, we finish in a minute and we move on. Replica to the promoter, a representative of the club, the answer to the replica is a much stronger collision, but we will see how most in the Croatian Parliament will decide and how we will turn out smarter than this story, but in any case we want to innovate something in the replica. In front of HSU, I suggest we all think about this: why don't all the speakers, whether they speak on behalf of the club, whether they speak individually or whether they speak ultimately on behalf of the club, speak from the pay phone, I repeat again, why don't we all talk from the pay phone? It's very difficult, especially for those in the front row, if they're responding to someone who's in the back, the microphone's in front of them and they keep turning around, they're talking to someone who's behind. Ergonomically it's not right and it's a strange communication, if the speaker in an individual debate would come out for this pay phone, we're looking into each other's eyes, so I have a replica and I have a reply to the replica from this one, from this position. We've recently been to the Danish Parliament, even the chairman isn't behind the speaker, the pay phone is on the side so that the one who speaks has no distractions to have someone behind him. So that part is contained in our amendment, we'll see that, we'll see our contribution to the debate, so think about it, because it doesn't require any epochal efforts to get rid of that part. There were wonderful suggestions with pleasure, it was a pleasure to listen to all these debates today, one must use here to correct the allegations of fellow Lesar. My colleague, Lesar, said that the tiles annoy the citizens, the citizens annoy those who lift the tiles. It's a fact of fact, and that's what I'm going to show you on one example in the 2003 mandate. -2007. There was a colleague, Pero Kovacevic, sitting here in the middle, who at one point had a jubilee thousand-dollar announcement for a word in the Croatian Parliament. After that, he was supposed to be with us for two more terms, but he didn't go through in the next term. So it's not about form, it's about content, so the tiles don't piss anyone off, even some people get good at it and have fun and say it themselves, it's about the one behind those tiles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8393	Thank you. One notice of the 6th session of the Education, Science and Culture Committee of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 23 May at 17:00, hall of Stjepan Radić 133/1. Agenda for the adoption of the minutes and first item Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2011 summary. We have two corrections to the incorrect allegations, the first reported by representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8394	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it is an incorrect assumption that such employment in the club representatives will improve the work of these clubs and that these people will be those who will be professional and who will have qualifications. It is nowhere in these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure stated that they should have, which criteria should be met, which checks should be passed and unfortunately put ahead of those who are employees of the state service today, are placed above those who have worked in the Croatian Parliament for years and you have regulated Article 3.b which is absolutely contrary to the law. It is therefore incorrect that the people you want to hire on the party line will improve the work.../ The speaker doesn't understand. /...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8395	Thank you very much. Correction of opinion again, not allegation. Next for correcting the incorrect quote, MP Stjepan Milinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I almost withdrew my correction because my colleague Hrelja spoke aphimously of correcting an incorrect quote, but when I answered, I would still correct it because he said I was correcting a colleague of Coleman, not an incorrect allegation. I've corrected the incorrect assumption and made it very clear, and my colleague Coleman can't even correct it because he's finished the process of growth, he's rightly gray, he's not threatened by the curvature of the spine, and the second and his thinking is therefore talking about how in a different way we can approach certain things, and diversity needs to be wealth, so he needs to be strengthened and not choked by these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8397	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. So in front of the National Minority Representatives Club, Nejad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives Club will support this Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This attitude was expressed by the National Minority Club at the joint session of the Croatian Parliament presidency with the presidents of the Croatian Assembly Clubs held in April this year. Three groups of changes and we all talked about them here more or less about the additions made to this amendment proposal. The first group includes the regulation and harmonisation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament with the new establishment of the state administration. The second group aligns the provisions of the Rules of Procedure with the 2010 amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the third group regulates provisions relating to the rights and duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is this third group that talks about the rights and responsibilities of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and in particular the abolition of the Institute of Inaccuracy in our opinion is the essence of these amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, which showed mainly the course of the debate so far. However, we believe that this institute corrects the incorrect allegations in the current practice and work of the Croatian Parliament is mainly misused for replicas and for the presentation of its political views, and that the original speaker to whose presentation was used did not have the opportunity to give his answer to any position of such nature. It's simply not a good practice, so we think it's a very bad practice. We are also aware of the inadequacy of the abolition of this institute to correct the incorrect allegations spoken of by the esteemed colleague Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS club. It in a certain way reduces the dynamics of work in this House, but we think that, with the better use of replicas, we will not all be cut off in our right to speak in Parliament, that is to say, to face different political and secular views and views on the development and life of Croatian society. If it finally shows up in the next period that we are not satisfied with these changes in our authority and to re-enact. So, if we need to return the institute to correct the incorrect allegations. So these changes and additions will be supported. We understand them first and foremost as a desire to improve our work, to strengthen the integrity of the Croatian Parliament through this work, including the representatives of the Parliament. And if it turns out that these changes and supplements won't get the desired effects again, I repeat, we have the possibility of re-adjusting and correcting it. That is why we will have a very quick opportunity when we align the practical provisions of the Rules of Procedure with the law that will soon regulate the practical monitoring of the work of our Government within the framework of the European Union institutions. So it'll be very soon, so we'll be able to fix it if we're not satisfied with it. I have a mission here to pass on one observation of my friend, a bit of a send-off to our men's account that says that this correction of an incorrect quote is particularly dangerous for men because in Parliament it reduces the right to speak even less than we do in marriage. Namely, when your home wife tells you what to do, what to do, or when correcting your incorrect quote you can say yes, dear. But in Parliament, when a colleague corrects you, you have no way of saying that. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8399	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Agent Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8400	Well, here, this correction to an incorrect quote is no danger to men at all. It may be a danger to some other groups, but it's mostly a threat to power, so I'm correcting a colleague who said that correcting an incorrect quote is a danger to men. Correction of an incorrect quote is a danger to power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8401	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club, MP Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8402	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will begin today's debate on this proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure by quoting German writer Ludwig Bern: "Government that does not allow freedom of speech because in this way the truths that are burdened by governments are spreading are doing the exact same thing as a child who closes his eyes so that no one can see it." Freedom of speech is necessary for the existence of democratic authority. In countries where there is no freedom of speech, in autocratic systems people are afraid to say what they mean. The danger of this lies first and foremost in the fact that in that case authorities and superiors do not know what people think. When there is no freedom of speech from the authorities, the superiors do not care about what the subordinates really want and need. It is already said that the issues that are being regulated by today's amendments to the Rules of Procedure can be divided into three groups, without reducing the importance of any group of amendments and additions to the fact that, for the future work of the Croatian Parliament, the amendments to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the participation of parliamentary representatives in the debates and their right to speak and to express their views are certainly the most important or important provisions. It is no secret that so far the practice of working at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament has shown that countless times it has been said the least false use of business opportunities for participation in the debate. However, in any event, any change should not prejudice the fulfilment of the basic task and the rights of parliamentary representatives, our right to speak and to express our opinion because that right is guaranteed and Article 38. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as well as Article 19 UN General Declarations of Human Rights. We, at the HDSSB Representatives' Club, are starting first of all from the fact that a new level of opportunities for parliamentary representatives to use the right to freedom of speech and to express their opinions is less than the one that has so far existed, the more the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure have not only abolished the correction of the incorrect allegations but also, in a certain way, limited the possibility of using the current Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure. The institute does not, however, be abolished in the full sense of the word, but the proposed solution in reality abolishs the possibility of a quick response by the representatives to the exposure. Because while the representative first announces that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will apply for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, so that she or he, within 24 hours, submits that request, and then within 24 hours of receiving that request and delivers his opinion, we come to a situation called the "papa with cookies" in the people. However, however, the proposer of these amendments and the addition of this proposal was trying to wrap it up in a whole-phan fact that this proposal by the new Rules of Procedure from the three business opportunities so far to participate in the debate, correcting the incorrect quote, harming the Rules of Procedure and replicas, this possibility comes down to just one and that, without any substitute for any other business solutions. This does not conclude anything but that this imagined new Rules of Procedure will be significantly more restrictive with regard to the right to freedom of speech and freedom of expression in the Croatian Parliament, and this is exactly the strongest and most important weapon in fulfilling the basic task of each parliamentary representative, representing the interests of Croatian citizens here in the Croatian Parliament and representing them. This also injures the right to the freedom of the parliamentarians themselves. This is more strange than the current ruling majority in Croatia led by the SDP if we remember the words of famous German-Polish politician Rose Luxembourg who long ago said "Freedom is always the freedom of a different opinion." We have listened to the words and alignment with the legislation and the acquis of the European Union countless times here in the Croatian Parliament in recent years. It has been said during the debate so far that today's proposal does not contain comparisons of our business solutions to the solutions found in the Rules of Procedures of some other European and world parliaments, especially those with a longer tradition of parliamentary work. This is what I want to do. It is very interesting to look at what solutions to this matter, in particular with regard to the business provision of representatives of various speech options, we also find in the European Union, but also in some national parliaments of individual members and the same European Union. Let's start with the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Article 150 speaks of the so-called ‘. One minute of speech. In other words, it reads: "At every session during the first session of the day, the president gives a word to MPs who wish to warn Parliament about a matter of political importance over a maximum period of 30 minutes. The exposure time is limited to one minute, and the president may allow such an additional period later during the same session. But an interesting business solution is found in Article 151 of the same EU Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the so-called personal statements. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Rules of Procedure reads: "The advocates who request the word to make a personal statement speak at the end of the debate on the relevant agenda item or when adopting the minutes from the sitting to which the request for a word relates. Representatives shall not speak of essential issues but shall restrict their statements to disprove possible objections which have been made in the course of the debate in person or opinions attributed to them or to correct their own statements. A personal statement may take a maximum of three minutes unless Parliament decides otherwise." This article of the EU Parliament's Rules of Procedure is not only a possible real substitute for abolishing our current correction of the incorrect allegations but is a solution that is significantly and better than our solution so far. And given that we often call for the EU's acquis and when it should and when it is not necessary then we should not invent hot water but take those solutions that are truly good quality. But other solutions in national parliaments are interesting. Let's see what we find in that sense in the German Bundestag's rules of procedure. I will list this provision only four articles or rules as they say their Rules of Procedure that regulate these issues. Rule 29. The rules of procedure of Bundestaga regulate the possibility of asking questions of breach of the Rules of Procedure or even established agenda. In paragraph 3 of that 29, the article states "if a member of the Bundestaga raises a question of injury without wanting to talk about a procedureal proposal or to initiate a procedural proposal himself, the President shall give him the right to speak by his own decision, in accordance with the provision in paragraph 4. that no member of the Buddenstage on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure may speak for more than 5 minutes". And today, we are offered a solution to introduce instead of an infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure an announcement of a written request to the committee to which we can get an answer in 48 hours at the earliest. We swear so much to the EU acquis, and when it comes to the degree of democracy, and the right to speak to a representative is something that can measure the degree of democracy, then we do not just look at these countries, but unfortunately we are going in the opposite direction. In addition, rule 30 also states this. Rules of Procedure of the Budenstage, which, like the EU Rules of Procedure, regulates the possibility. the right of a member of the Bundestag to carry out the so-called so-called a statement of discussion after the conclusion of the suspension or delay of the hearing. In that 30th article, "The President can make a proposal to the members asking for permission to speak with the aim of giving a statement during the debate, and a member requesting a word to give a statement on the course of the debate must inform the president of the reason for the statement. In doing so, it can make a statement on the debate only in order to correct any information that has been presented about his person during the debate or to correct what he said earlier, and the statement cannot last longer than 5 minutes." Isn't this in a certain way what we've had so far as the Institute corrects the incorrect allegations? Yes, it is. They are equally interesting if not more interesting solutions found in Articles 31 and 32. The rules of procedure of Bundestag. Rule 31 on the right to an explanation of the vote reads: "After the conclusion of the debate, any member of the Bundestaga shall have the right to orally declare a final vote which may not last longer than 5 minutes or submit a brief written statement which shall be included in the minutes of the session. As a rule, the president gives members the right to make statements before moving to the vote." Before the vote, a member of Bundestag even has the right to declare that he will not take part in the vote. Rule 32 which speaks of the right to statements on topics which are not included in the agenda states: "The President may, before opening the first item of the agenda or after the conclusion, interrupt or postpone the debate, give a word to a member who wishes to speak about a subject which is not included in the agenda in order to make a statement on facts or a statement of personal nature when a member requests a statement, will inform the President of the reason for the statement, and his oral presentation cannot last longer than 5 minutes". I remind you, we remove the correction of the incorrect allegations and the violation of the Rules of Procedure in oral form and in the above examples from Germany we find business solutions that not only enable and correct the incorrect allegations and violations of the Rules of Procedure but also ensure both the possibility and participation in the debate in a way that we have not even had so far. And so often we call for practices and examples from Western democracies and what is best is not the only examples that say that there are not only different and better solutions than our own. In this regard, I will give some examples of the articles of the Rules of Procedure of the Italian Parliament's House of Representatives. Rule 40 which defines the right to appoint so-called The preliminary questions and questions of the postponement reads: "Before the debate begins, an individual representative has the right to ask a preliminary question, e.g. that a particular topic should not be debated at all or a matter of delay, e.g. to postpone the debate until a certain date." And it's an interesting rule in 42 that defines the right to a personal opinion. It reads: "If a representative shows unworthy or inappropriate behaviour or an opinion that is contrary to what is truly stated or implicated by a speaker, such behaviour will be considered a personal opinion. In such a case, the advocate who requests the word must explain his opinions, and the president will make a decision." Interesting examples are also found in the Hungarian Parliament’s Rules of Procedure in Articles 50 and 52. However, the examples set out in these Rules of Procedure of various European Parliaments are evident that there are much better solutions to the right to speak and express their views than those found today in this proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. But from their experiences, we can see not only that the correction of the incorrect allegations and violations of the Rules of Procedure exist in their offices but that we also find other business opportunities that we have not yet had. And in that sense, I'm going to set another example. To speak freely and express your thoughts freely is one of the most valuable flows of human history. How important it is to enable this right, especially in parliamentary practice, to show and describe the existence of a particular kind of parliamentary procedure that has existed since the Roman Senate's time until today. In fact, in the Roman Senate not only were there no restrictions on the debate, but there was a so-called. The favorite trick, it was the practice of speaking outside the debate, which is often called a philibuster today. This custom has been adopted today in the parliamentary practice of many developed democracies between them and the United States, Canada, Great Britain and France. As a type of parliamentary procedure, Filibuster is the right of an individual to extend the debate allowing an individual member of parliament to postpone or completely prevent a vote on a particular proposal. The procedure is also referred to as the removal of the law by speech and is considered to be a form of obstruction of legislation or of another legislative body. On the US legislative scene, the philibuster was called stalling tactics, or blocking the opponent's legislative initiative, and is stalled by endless speech after a Senate speaker. The aim of this measure is to protect the rights of a minority party, although relatively rarely used by a minority filibuster can practically block any majority initiative. There are numerous examples of the use of philibusters for various purposes. For example, an opponent of the civil rights of blacks in 1957 spoke in the American Senate without a break for more than 24 hours just to block the adoption of a law on the mitigation of racial discrimination. In the U.S., there have been a lot of attempts to mitigate the rules of the Philistines, but such attempts have faced strong resistances, and even according to polls, most Americans are opposed to changing those rules. In fact, prominent analyst for the US legislative scene Norman J. Ornstein believes that any reduction in the right of the minority in the Senate would have far-reaching consequences because it says: The Senate's basic characteristic is a system of democratic decision-making which, among other things, wants to avoid decision-making under the influence of emotions from the majority party. The parties available in the minority are many tools of the parliamentary struggle that it uses to achieve its objectives. If that changed, it would move towards the tyranny of the majority." And better yet, the Philibuster American Constitution doesn't even mention it, but it's a sublegal act, that is, an internal labour rule that was passed by the Senate. A dramatic example of philibustering was also recorded in the Canadian Lower House between Thursday 23.6. and 25.6.2011. At that time, in an attempt to prevent the adoption of the C6 law, which was supposed to regulate the return of fired Canadian postal employees, the new democratic party led a 58-hour filibustering. A number of examples of philibustering have also been recorded in the UK. Here, for example. In January 2011, laborers tried to postpone the adoption of the Law on Parliamentary Elections and Election Units until 16 February, a deadline set by the electoral commission to hold an alternative vote on 5 May. On the eighth day of the debate, the staff of the Upper House set up camp beds and refreshments for the Labourists to rest and it was the first time in eight years. In France, in August 2006, the left opposition submitted 137440 amendments to the proposed law that was to reduce the share of the French State in... de France from 80 to 34% to allow for its merger with Suez. [[You don't understand.]] Under the usual parliamentary procedure, voting on all these amendments would take 10 years. However, the left hand later withdrew it because it did not have sufficient support for the public. I have cited several examples and this form of parliamentary procedure in order to highlight the fact that in the developed Western democracies we so often see the right to speech and freedom of opinion is incomparably more pronounced than in our parliamentary practice and in this so far, and as far as this proposal is concerned, that I do not even speak. So today's debate on behalf of the HDSSB Club will end with the words of the famous liberal thinker John Stewart Mill: freedom of speech is not only important because everyone has the right to freedom of expression but also because the community in which we live has the right to hear our thoughts. And recalling Winston Churchill's saying that the speech should be like a woman's skirt, long enough to cover the topic, and short enough to be interesting enough not to suggest the introduction of a philibuster into our parliamentary practice, but we think that bringing the three business opportunities so far to just one and that on the replica is a big step backwards in terms of and the degree of development achieved, but also further development of the democratic achievements of the Republic of Croatia Here I am finishing up, so we suggest that we consider finding other opportunities to exercise the right to speak using the experiences of the above-mentioned business provisions of other European and world parliaments because it is an exact old saying that the sword has only two blades, and the language has hundreds. [[Intruder: Time.]] But speaking not only commending but also warning someone for what has been done is not a sign of enmity but also the opposite, for Ciceron also said to warn and to be warned is a right of friendship. The rulings must always keep in mind that in the debates of MPs they will hear not only praises but also criticisms, so in this sense, you who are ruling Croatia today take care of another sentence of Britain's great politician Winston Churchill: I don't blame criticism even when it comes to a sharpness for some time is breaking up with reality. Finally, the HDSSB Club proposes that in the final version of the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure be included in the experiences of other countries from which we have something to learn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8403	Thank you very much. Especially if it is appropriate and possible for us, given Parliament's work so far, tradition etc. I agree with you. Dear MPs and MPs, it is our honor to welcome the Honorable President Andrew Scheer, President of the Canadian Parliament's House of Representatives with the delegation who are staying for an official visit to the Republic of Croatia with whom we met with our delegation an hour ago. Please welcome them with a round of applause. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] And on behalf of the SDP club Mr. MP, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8404	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club is considering these proposed amendments to our Rules of Procedure as a result of the fact that the Assembly is not only legislative but also the supreme representative body of citizens. The Assembly is not only represented by different political options that go to parliamentary elections, different world-famouss, but also by all citizens, each individual citizen who went to the elections and voted. For this reason, by protecting Parliament's dignity, we protect the dignity of citizens, and that must be on our minds when we change this Rules of Procedure to work because by working here, speaking, performing, we represent those who voted for us. We must primarily take account of this, and we are aware of the fact that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure are motivated by this very desire to fix a picture of the Parliament, which unfortunately is not good in the public. If there were no abuse of certain institutions that exist in the Rules of Procedure, there would be no need for this Rules of Procedure to be amended. Unfortunately, not all MPs understand the need to preserve Parliament’s dignity equally, so it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure. It would be good if we were in it consensually, if this were one deal chosen by the citizens. But even if that is not the case, if political elements prevail in the debate it will not discourage us to bring these changes to the majority of the vote with the best intention. I am pleased with the speech of my fellow Buric, who spoke constructively, with the desire to really correct these amendments by the Rules of Procedure, warning the majority not to abuse the fact that the majority is at the expense of the minority, because the minority has been elected and voted for them, they have not elected themselves to this Assembly. Why is it important to amend the Rules of Procedure now? It is important to prevent destruction in the work of the Parliament, which was also discussed by fellow Pupovac. She unfortunately exists. Some thinking is interesting, for example. My colleagues, Lesara, who says that we should, by modelling the European Parliament, introduce a fine for non-session MPs, do not sit in the Assembly, especially if they do not come to the vote. That's how one thought that, let my colleague Lesar, now he's not here in the assembly, not a grudge that's actually on one trail of populism, perhaps with good intentions, can or would lead to the reduction of the right of the parliamentary minority if we accepted that proposal. In fact, the European Parliament is not a classical national parliament with the attitude of the majority and the minority from which some European government comes. It's mostly where things are resolved by consensus. If we were to introduce this rule of punishment, then the opposition, the minority of parliament, would be given a strong hand, which is the collapse of the quorum. The continuing question whether the parliamentary majority, whether it is the majority or not. And let the government come from some national parliament as a government just because it has a parliamentary majority. The moment she loses at least one vote, she is no longer a government, she no longer has legitimacy. So we, through the Institute, would actually harm the opposition. That's what the opposition is proposing. This is suggested by the opposition through a colleague of Lesars because he does not understand these relations. He wants to like the public, the public thinks we're not here enough because he doesn't know that we have other jobs like his colleague Lesar's probably doing some other job right now, and he's not out of laziness here, but he wants to like that public, so he's proposing a solution that would be to harm the opposition. We will not accept this proposal from Lesar because we want to defend the right of a parliamentary minority. It's our task as a majority. Because the minority can only be protected by the majority, the minority cannot protect itself. Why? Well, because it's a minority. A fellow Pupovac has made an interesting proposal and a good thinking on how the powers of Parliament's president should be increased as the guardian of the Rules of Procedure. Perhaps it would be a better way to go than this through the Rules of Procedure to continue to isolate each of the possible situations. But if we were to go that way, it would probably be the minority that attacked us if we wanted to create Pharaoh from the president. Personally, I like this proposal, I personally think that we should have confidence in the leadership of the Parliament, in those who lead the session, because often we do not have another exit or business and we will have a situation that we will not have a business exit because it is impossible to write down everything in the Rules of Procedure which can resolve the authority of the chairman. Let's talk about some concrete solutions. Club employees, so people who are accepted without a public competition to work at a club. A fellow Djakic attacked it in five, six correcting incorrect allegations. That institute exists now, and there's boredom. In the last session of the Parliament, I led the Committee on Information, Information and Media. It happened that the administrative secretary retired and the former secretary sent me two people who were then unscheduled by these professional services to take her on board. I had a conversation with them, and I asked them how and when they were employed in the Parliament. The first one tells me through the HDZ club. It was taken by the HDZ club, when it was entitled to a permanent working relationship then transferred to a committee. So one, so the other. It was a model of employment, and Mr. Djakic attacks a solution that will allow him to continue to be employed at the club, but he will not be able to go to work bodies, he will be able to stay only at the club. So we will, colleague Djakic and colleagues from HDZ, avoid hiring people into an administrative apparatus through club representatives. You attack it, we're proud of it. Now something about correcting the quote and his abuse. That's what the quotes looked like. It's not true that this government isn't right, it's true that the last government was working, and the proof of that is that the government of the Racan border wasn't worth anything. They're corrections, mostly. When we say we want to restore Parliament's dignity, we want to avoid it. We're going to make it impossible because it's getting on people's nerves. Here's someone here mentioned our former colleague Kovacevic with a thousand corrections of incorrect allegations. It's not... You know no one in this House is and will not celebrate through the corrections of incorrect allegations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're a good or bad representative by your own speeches, by individual speeches, not by how often you correct someone's alleged abuse of that institute. Surely you won't like the public, nor will you provide yourself with an additional mandate. Preparation for the debate, a quality debate is what MPs are expected to discuss, and that is what a representative can celebrate or not celebrate. There are concepts that are in relation to subordination, so the higher concept also includes the content of a lower concept. In such a relationship of subordination are the concepts of replication and correction of the incorrect quote. The replica also includes a correction of an incorrect quote. By replicating someone, we can correct the quote for him. So it absolutely does not stand, ten times here is now repeated, that by abolishing the correction of the incorrect quote we are reducing the right of speech. We are not reducing because it remains a higher term, and instead of correcting the quote, it can be replicated to a proposer whose so far could not be replicated. What followed the correction of an incorrect assumption that it was not at all? She followed the rule of violation of the Rules of Procedure. Neither the Rules of Procedure were injured but the MP simply refused to endure a replica he could not respond to, so she followed another abuse after one abuse. First, a correction to the incorrect allegations was misused, and immediately beyond that is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. By correcting the Rules of Procedure, we want to disable these abuses. I repeat, if they weren't there wouldn't be a need to change that. What do we get by announcing? Here in this assembly, perhaps 10, 15 days ago, two Vice-Presidents of the Parliament announced, reported some violation of the Rules of Procedure, and announced that they would ask the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to assess whether the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Is the Rules of Procedure hurt, they didn't ask for it, and the vice presidents are home, the keepers of the Rules of Procedure didn't ask for it. You know why they didn't? So because the Rules of Procedure is not hurt very simply and they know it, they know it because they have been in the Parliament for many years and they know this Rules of Procedure well, and we want to avoid these things. It's impossible to set things up with the Rules of Procedure, it's impossible, it's impossible to predict all situations, and it might be a good idea to think about introducing a Code of Representatives, a code of conduct, for example. which would regulate whether the representatives of the same club would replicate each other? Which means even a replica, because we've heard such interpretations that the replica doesn't mean to challenge someone's opinion, but it's one linguistic, original linguistic interpretation that if someone wants to publish, we can try to betray it, because it will certainly represent a new one in linguistic theory, so we can, as a matter of fact, be able to publish that kind of thinking. So, he imagines, all sorts of solutions are imagined, but in a way that abuses the Rules of Procedure. Let's think about this one code, if we try to bring it by consensus, it is in the interest of us, in the interest of elected representatives, but in the interest of Parliament itself, and if something is in Parliament's interest then it is also in the state interest and interest of the citizens who chose us. If we think about this positive way, and here is my colleague Buric, we are thinking here as an example of a constructive approach to this, oppositional but constructive, then we are on the right path to fix this Rules of Procedure, we are discussing him in two readings, but that even in a better way we arrange our mutual relations in the Assembly, relations between the majority and minority relations with the right to speak, whether or not he remains the most important of the rights that MPs have. A representative who has no right to speak is not actually a representative, he cannot then represent anyone or those who chose him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8405	Thank you very much. You only have five corrections of incorrect allegations, starting with Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8406	Thank you, Mr. President. It was enough to correct my fellow Stazic, but among other things, he said that the abolition of the correction of the incorrect allegations would protect the integrity of the Assembly, and I don't know if this Assembly's dignity was violated in that past term when Col. Stazic was using that business opportunity and the breach of the rules of procedure to correct the incorrect allegations, and as far as the Code of Representatives are concerned, I hope that fellow Stazic doesn't think that we are all uniform, that we should put a red scarf and a cap on his head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8407	Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8408	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Vice President Stazic, when he stepped up for defence and said that by amending the Rules of Procedure and abolishing the institution of correcting the incorrect allegations, it would protect the right of the parliamentary minority, i.e. The opposition. No, Mr. Stazic, by erasing this, you clearly show that you're putting a patch on our mouths, that we can't speak to you or answer or correct what you say as incorrectly. If that were not the case, they would accept the initiative held by the HDZ Club when it offered to regulate the business law with strict criteria so that it would not be misused. You didn't even respond to that initiative at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8409	Maybe it's worth formulating something very precise, you never know if we come to a solution, try it. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8410	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I also noticed these incorrect allegations, and I'm going to add another one. To protect the dignity of the citizens by changing ourselves. That's not true. The dignity of citizens is protected by ensuring the minimum material conditions of life and quality of life, and this does not seem to be in a way to raise VAT to 25%, it does not seem like a way to raise the price...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8411	Please. You're out of the picture. It wasn't about VAT, but that's your correction. See what you're doing right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8412	I am correcting that we are not protecting the dignity of citizens because they are with these measures, their quality of life is in the worst frames in the last 20 years. So that's the point of the story, the point of it all, but now you've distracted me, so I haven't been able to finish the whole thought yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8413	Well, he didn't mention Mr. Stazic's VAT. Now, I'd tell you so that maybe there won't be any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I can see that Mr. Stazic has rightly reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You see, you're now saying on the one hand in the debate it was that the chairman should have more authority, etc., and now that I wanted to interrupt you because you came out of the box of what you were supposed to say at correcting the incorrect assumption you said I disturbed you. And then how am I going to have the authority if this is how you guys do it? So, if we're going to reach a consensus there too, it would be very good. Thank you very much. Was that it?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8414	No, no, I just wanted to demonstrate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8415	And don't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Is it a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8416	Well, no. I'm not gonna use this tile, I just wanted to demonstrate how it can be misused.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8417	Yeah, it's that you're also a theater expert, so that's of course. Okay, thanks. And since one MP has given up correcting the incorrect allegations, there is still a fourth Ms. Representative, Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8418	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I am correcting the incorrect quote of Mr. Stazić, who stands out for the fifth or sixth time in this Croatian Parliament and insinuates that individual officials in the Croatian Parliament came without a competition to a club and then remained permanently deployed in the Croatian Parliament. That's incorrect. According to the Staff Service, there is no middle-aged person admitted to the club without competition and then deployed for permanent employment. And Mr. Stazic's mid-professional staff is questioning where she worked and where the club worked, so would she be like him on his board to work then that's another thing. I received the professional service and the secretary of the board and the administrative secretary and did not question which policy options she had previously worked on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8419	You see how awkward that is now. He can't react, Mr. Stazic. Yeah, you know, and that's why you used it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8420	I'll discuss it and then there'll be a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8421	Okay, I guess there'll be a later chance. We move on to an individual debate for which, yes, excuse me, the gentleman has announced and I am that, but I am Mr Vice-President and Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on behalf of the motionor. Here you go, Mr. Lecko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8422	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. At the end of the debate by clubs, I can say as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that I will certainly read again very carefully all discussions of clubs on the Proposal for a Decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure. From that title, I can say that I thank you for the debate whether it supported or did not support everything that the motion for a decision has made among you parliamentary representatives, in line with the principle that freedom of speech is the most important and especially in the House. She has only a restriction on the right and the other to speak and not to be violated by his right. Accordingly, I could say that right now the corrections of the incorrect allegation are demonstrations that this correction of the incorrect quote is not in the function of clearing the policy, it is not in the function of the citizens to know what is true in Croatian and what is said and what is represented, but in the function of clouding things. And the Replica Institute does not oblige a parliamentary representative or any speaker in the Croatian Parliament to replicate. He can only correct an incorrect quote, can only correct an incorrect quote and thus complete his exposure. So there were different suggestions, different thinking, different suggestions. But the Rules of Procedure will be as I say at this time requiring the Croatian Parliament or reaching the stage of democratic respect in the Croatian Parliament, a democratic standard. And I'm just going to say this that the fact of the replica assures us that we can't when the treasure of your representative can tell you whatever you want without anyone telling you that you're lying or that you're wrong. The replica allows you to replicate, challenge both the government and the club and anyone who shows up behind this pay phone. We will try to keep it in the Rules of Procedure and, if possible, prevent the obstruction of such a position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8423	Thank you very much to Mr. Vice-President, on behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, for looking back at the debate that took place at clubs and up to half past two until we're done and today we'll just seem to have a Rules of Procedure and we won't have other points. We've got a lot of reports, up until five o'clock, so we figure it out. It's the least, but we don't count the replicas, especially the corrections of incorrect allegations. I'm just notifying, and the first word is Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8424	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's before I say a few words about this subject, let me just remind you of a historical event. Namely, the first Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was adopted long ago in 1861 at the meeting of the Assembly of the Kingdom of Croatia, Slavonia and Dalmatia, and since then the tradition, that is, the history of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So, the highest representative body in the Republic of Croatia. That Rules of Procedure has changed many times. One of the interesting things is to say that one time the vote was held by the MPs standing up or staying seated. Of course, the Rules of Procedure have changed since then and it is normal to change. Because the Croatian Parliament is also changing, changing the circumstances in which it operates, and last century has just witnessed many historical changes. That is how the Parliament adapted itself, and it is normal for it to continue to adapt in an independent and sovereign Croatia. A colleague, Leko, said the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are one Sui Genis document. I agree with that, and I don't think there's any doubt that this Rules of Procedure was actually a good one. But the institutes he prescribes are abused and that is why I believe this Rules of Procedure should be changed. All arguments that the Rules of Procedure should be changed are precisely being the exposure of our colleagues and colleagues with a moss from HDZ who have constantly used the correction of the incorrect quote. I, in my discussions that were here, had a certain number of myself only once used the correction of an incorrect quote so that I could propose on behalf of a colleague who spoke on behalf of the club, so to speak a few words. Otherwise, I didn't use it, and I deliberately gave my colleagues and colleagues a chance to replicate it, which means they're giving me my replica back. Because as I said once, and I always refer to this great Walter said, "I may not agree with what you have to say, but I will fight to death for your right to say it." I am standing there and I really believe it and I think that by introducing a replica institute, i.e. by expanding the replica institutions both to clubs and to members of the government, we are doing so. And MPs, therefore, can ask, that they can replicate, that they can disagree, but also that they are able to express their agreement, disagreement or/and possibly correct the allegations that colleagues and colleagues have said. My colleague Lesar was talking about fines for MPs who don't fulfil their duties but I think we're all on the same track for one solution. Because besides, the President of the Parliament is, I was just listening on the radio this morning to announce a conversation on the adoption of codes of conduct for parliamentary deputies. And I think it's also a good initiative that we'll definitely still be discussing in this House and so we'll be able to show ourselves about. That code doesn't mean we'll all be uniformed, that we'll all have this color or that color. I believe that we are richer in diversity, and also in political diversity. But if we have to change colors, then some colleagues and colleagues have experience because they've changed colors, so I don't think they're going to find it hard. But let me finish the debate. Because of the abuse of these institutes, therefore, I support the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the correction of the incorrect allegation of these amendments, and I think it's a good thing that we're introducing a replica, so we're extending the replicas to both members of the government and to the promoters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8425	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. First, the representative, Mr Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8426	Thank you, President of the Parliament. The MP spoke about the corrections of the incorrect allegations and how they were abused by HDZ representatives. Maybe they have these last few months. For eight years they have been abused by SDP representatives, in a few years they may be abused again by SDP or HDZ representatives. But we can all remember what the debates of the 1990s looked like and what they look like today and never before the debate of this House, the House of Representatives of Parliament was not to express myself more closely in the debate than it is today. It's never been emptyer, it's never been more prepared, and these actually changes that come after each other a little bit suppressing the more debate here. So here are the representatives of the people, and what is it when Pupina threw the bag? Well, nothing. It's an event in the history of this House. Now we're going to introduce some code of conduct where we're all gonna be like we fell off Mars. So we didn't fall from Mars, we came from this country, from this people, from these people, and that's how we represent them. So I think not only should we not stop the work of this House anymore but we should actually let it become a representative of that people at last which is less and less and in all these changes this House is becoming less and less and less representative of both will and desire and what that people think. Therefore, the process of amending the Rules of Procedure should go exactly the opposite of what is going on now, and that is to be released, to open this Parliament in all its forms. Here's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8427	Replica reply Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8428	Thank you very much. I thank my colleagues for just using the replica and for being able to answer it. Well, I wouldn't agree that the debates are a dignitary as you said, nor would I agree to the fact that these discussions are limited. What I think we should limit is the circus in the Parliament, because it's sad that historians will remember this or that convocation about whether someone threw the bag, whether someone took out dry fruit or a piece of meat on the phone. I think it's a level we shouldn't get down to because I don't think that the Croatian people are a people of circuses and that that's how we should behave and that we should take our obligations seriously in the Croatian Parliament and represent our people seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8429	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dujomir Marasovic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8430	Your Honor, Mr. President. My replica of Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's presentation would not offend anyone, but I think that Mr. Hajdukovic is really young and that's why I don't blame him and that he doesn't understand what's going on here. Namely, if something's wrong, he says he needs to be changed. I also agree that the Rules of Procedure should be changed in continuity of 18th century which I know which century, but this is not about change, this is about abolishing something that is in the Rules of Procedure. This is about abolishing democracy, this is simply about erasing someone's right to say something about something, so this is about something similar to '46. either, there were several parties to HSS etc. until the parties wiped it out in a year or two, then there was only one party and only one opinion. Approximately if there is an abuse of either the Rules of Procedure or, in the sense of correcting an incorrect claim or in the sense of breach of the Rules of Procedure, it should be punished. We cannot put an end to gentlemen or partyers because democracy is being abused by someone but has to be sanctioned. We can't abolish civil rights because someone abuses them and does something illegal, but it should be punished. And let's just say that if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it's about a body suggesting that it's actually used to limit the use of that institute for a month, not simply punishing us all for hurting someone. So someone's punishing me because someone else did something or abused me. It's actually the gentlemen's silence of the Parliament. But not the people or Croatian people or Croatia speak only in the Parliament. So what are you afraid of? There are 100 hands and more of you here, people talking in the streets and cafes. You will not silence the public only to shut up here in the Croatian Parliament of opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8431	We won't shut you up because you'll only have a replica then you'll just talk. Mr. Representative Buric has a replica. Here you go. Excuse me. Replica reply Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. I apologize to the counsel for both of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8432	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I will now use the reply to the replica as a correction of the incorrect quote. My last name is Hajeduković, H as Croatia, so please, I took the effort to remember your last name, remember mine. I'm glad you like it when I'm young. I'm also glad that you're rich in experience, but I'm not sure that you've realized exactly what we're discussing here, because the replica is consummating the correction of an incorrect quote. So, by replicating you, you could correct what you think I said incorrectly. The only difference is that I can answer you now, and not so you would now be mistaken for the Croatian public to call me Idukovic for not calling myself. Now I can correct you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8433	Mr. Representative Buric Replic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8434	Thank you, Mr. President. So, my dear colleague, I really don't think you've understood the point of this agenda today. So the participation of all of us in the debate to contribute to getting a quality Rules of Procedure but let's not invent hot water, let's not be more Catholic than the Pope. Elimination of three options, bringing three opportunities to the debate so far to one, is not in the spirit of democratic and parliamentary scratches of countries that have a much longer parliamentary tradition than Croatia. If this exists in the German Bundestag, if it exists in the Italian Parliament's House of Representatives, if there are both in the EU Parliament and more ways of speaking than just a replica, there is a correction of the incorrect assumption and there is likely to be an abuse there. It exists in a number of countries, and we are now under the pretext, really, so that we don't abuse an institute to end it. We don't need to stop it. We just need to start using it differently. And when it comes to what the Croatian citizens may or may not be irritated, then that's what we're talking about, not what institute you're using. Remember and keep in mind about our colleague that our basic task here is to work in the interest of Croatian citizens, that there is a position and opposition and that it is the duty of the opposition, opposition, minorities in all possible democratic ways if it is necessary to obstruct the work of the majority. Well, I was talking about a philibuster. I told you about that. In America for four years, they have failed to elect candidates or adopt the president's candidates for high-level judicial duties. One congressman even called it opposing the will of the people because he said it was unprecedented that we could not vote on some candidates for four years just because of a democratic philabuster. But most Americans are opposed to the poll that's been conducted by the removals of the Philistines like, I'm going to quote that to you, and that's the official definition... So those are like... [[You don't understand.]] the blocking of the opponent's legislative initiative. [[You don't understand.]] It is democratic law and is stalled if it is necessary to give an endless speech to the Senate speaker. It's a democratic weapon of opposition to represent and speak up against the majority and there's nothing wrong with it. And we're like this with three possibilities to bring it down to one. Now imagine if we suggested we introduce a filibuster. There would be nothing undemocratic, we would follow America, Great Britain, France, Canada. Here, thank you. I didn't even notice. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8435	Then you looked at this display of ours so you didn't see that your time was up by 50%. I will now inform you, especially from the HDSSB representatives, representatives from HDZ and not only HDZ, there are also Labourists, that most often if you noticed, we can measure it to you, when the time for exposure is up I often let you talk, this is the attitude to the opposition. However, when you just show up once or twice immediately what you're not interrupting on this side of the left, and I noticed that. So we have everything here in Parliament, and that's why, I apologize for what we're doing right now, and that's why we need the code just to remember what we wrote down, nothing else. Thank you very much. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8436	Thank you very much, Mr. Sprem. Mr. Buric, I don't think we agree, that we actually agree. I support every constructive criticism, and here I thank you as much as my colleague Stazic for his contribution, I see that you have been very fully informed about the subject. However, I am not inclined to bring bad things in, meaning something that has been manifestly bad just because it is a practice in other democratic countries. So if you ask me, I repeat again, I will fight to death for your right to say what you have even though I disagree with you. But then through the Replication Institute, we give an opportunity to whoever you're replicating to answer that question. And to you as well as to me as to anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8437	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8438	I believe that when you mentioned bags, dried fruits and vegetables, you didn't possibly think about now, still a member of Mršić's presidency, who in the last term brought one such basket or possibly Željka Antunović or possibly me when I brought Mrs. Kosor that school bag, by the way, the weight of that bag hasn't changed to this day, so I don't believe that it was a circus, but I don't believe that it is now, if it so clearly wants to show the state of agriculture. Now I don't see the time since certain changes are going, but I think so, so I wouldn't break the Rules of Procedure again. However, if you look at Article 211 and this long-term debate, I believe that the majority of Croatian citizens today are not interested because the Assembly is dealing with itself and will not reduce the VAT nor will anyone make a decision on reducing electricity, gas and this should have been one closed session not only in the Presidency, but a session where representatives of clubs will be invited to try to reach a consensus with the new Rules of Procedure. However, if you look at this article 211 then you will see the enormous possibilities of a proposing who does not only have to fear correcting the incorrect allegations because if Mr Leko continues to appear every half hour of 10 minutes then we will stay here and I believe that today we will not even finish this debate on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8439	Replica response, MP Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8440	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Well, you see, colleague Vinkovic, I don't approve of such practice. Unfortunately, it comes down to, so the attention you get as an agent doesn't come down to whether you said something smart, but whether you threw the bag or cursed your mother. I simply disagree with such a policy and such conduct in the Assembly. So I'm sorry that you recognized yourself here, but so we need to set some higher standards and I think that this Rules of Procedure is good. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8441	But the replica on the replica and there is, there's just no further replica because it would never end. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic, at the end of the line around the step of Mr. Representative Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8442	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Hajdukovic, you mentioned the 1861 Parliamentary Rules of Procedure. You see, in the history of the Croatian Parliament, a representative who stands up first, says the Reverend Croatian Assembly, is the first sentence of a representative who stands up in the history of the Croatian Parliament. We ourselves are representatives of less you and me, but the past convex and the Croatian Parliament itself has brought down quite a bit of its representatives, you know. Today, when you walk down the street, it is difficult to say, no matter what party you are, that you are a representative in the Croatian Parliament. I advocate that MPs in the Parliament say that they come to meetings, that empty chairs do not receive salaries and that quality advocates in their discussions contribute to the quality above all Croatian laws. What the government suggested doesn't mean it's good. We are representatives chosen by the Croatian people, we are a parliamentary country, a democracy, and as such we are present here, who are sitting here today, we can make our contribution, those who are not sitting today cannot make their contribution because the chairs are empty. And what we can do, we can change the Rules of Procedure and we have to, I agree, because the new time, the 20-year-old Rules of Procedure can't be the same as it should be today. And what I don't agree with is that the last one be, the last word of the executive government. I believe that we representatives of the Croatian Parliament who have chosen the Croatian government from one side or another should nevertheless criticise what is not good and praise what is good. It's the highlight of democracy. If, at any point, we feel that someone has skillfully or unskilledly taken advantage of a business opportunity, yet someone has said something and may have actually corrected something incorrectly, he may not have made a good reference to the article or was not well quoted. You new deputies don't have to know everything by heart, but in a year you'll know it. But what's important is what's said, the MP needs to talk, the MP needs to discuss it in quality, it's the highlight of democracy. We will enter the EU in a year less, this Rules of Procedure should be amended, this is the first reading, we have time by consensus, and that is where I agree, Mr President of the Parliament, to allow this temple of democracy to truly be a temple of democracy and to return to the time when we are allowed to say the Reverend Croatian Parliament. It's something to be honored by those of us sitting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8443	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8444	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I am pleased to share that opinion on the quality of the debate, I am really behind it and with what you said I absolutely sign. I think it's a good thing we're discussing this in the Parliament, and it's just proof of democracy because we don't want to deny any MP was he from the opposition, the position of the right to say what he thinks about this. And I think that's very important. I don't think that would be good. And that's why you have my word as a representative from the opposition now, about the sorry position, that your right and the right of all your colleagues in the opposition, but allow me then and from the position I will defend. So the right to speak, the right to a quality debate, to a constructive debate, is something I will always support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8445	Am I, just to ask, well informed that instead of here, I now have Mr. Representative Zeljko Reinera speaking to Mr. Attorney Davor Ivo Stier in writing. I did. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8446	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This motion for a decision is a kind of reminder. A reminder of all the decisions this Parliament should make, the decisions the government should make and propose to the Croatian Parliament, which did not make by Croatian citizens from the Croatian government and the ruling majority expect. Because let's be honest, for a few hours now, we've been dealing with how the Rules of Procedure will be and what a colleague from the HDZB said is really not in the primary interest of Croatian citizens today. I am not saying that this is an irrelevant issue, but I say that it has already been half a year since the parliamentary elections, that this government is no longer new and that in half a year no real structural reform has been sent to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption. Not a single comprehensive structural reform, which is exactly what we need for Croatia's economy to grow again, for a better standard of Croatian citizens. And that is what Croatian citizens expect from both the Croatian Parliament and the ruling majority and the Croatian government. But the government didn't do it, the government didn't do it probably because she wasn't brave enough or capable. And what was she brave and capable of? So so far, in these six months, we see that she was only capable and brave in increasing the burden on Croatian citizens, we see that the SDP government was only brave when some ideological divisions were to be reopened in Croatian society, when some complexes were to be re-imposed to the Croatian people, when they were to be re-insulted by Bleibur victims. Here and now we see that there is courage to bring a new Rules of Procedure, which is actually what it wants, the ultimate goal, is to further protect the Prime Minister and the Minister of Government, so that it is not by chance the last word of the Assembly but that always the executive power has the last and last word. And that's the point of this proposal, and that's narrowing down parliamentaryism. So, let's say indeed what the ultimate goal of this proposal is and, of course, the ruling majority can impose such a solution, it can really end the correction of the incorrect quote, but believe me, you won't be able to prevent me from doing so in the next local so-called parliamentary elections that Croatian citizens can correct all incorrect allegations of the SDP government, you won't be able to prevent Croatian citizens from correcting the SDP government's incorrect, dishonest promises in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8447	Thank you. You only have four replicas, and from the very first of all, of Madam Sumrak's representative, and then you have three more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8448	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stier, here you have quite well said, we have been discussing or discussing reports in this House for almost 200 days now from 2008, 2010 or here we are dealing with the Rules of Procedure today. The constitution speaks of the government's triodition in the Republic of Croatia, so the legislative authority is the highest authority in the Republic of Croatia, and the Parliament is the one who acts as legislative authority. And you said well that through these changes, or the proposal to amend, and we also see from the side of some MPs who have given us a letter of good behavior, of dignity, of what needs to be introduced, what everything needs to be abolished, I don't know what the Croatian Parliament will look like. I don't know if the MPs who spoke about the code are the ones who should be talking about this Code of Fine Conduct. On the other hand, I imagine what it should look like then that session of the Croatian Parliament if we cancel everything except the replica, maybe the replicas will probably be written in that code, divided before the session, and then we will have to tell us what they will write so that this session of the Assembly looks like the central committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. We'll all sit there, be nice, calm, clap when we're told. The point is that in this House, important and important issues and issues related to the dignity of the Croatian man should be addressed, and that is how the Croatian man should survive. The same way we should determine in this House and the code of the ruling party, that is, from ministers and beyond. I wonder why we are not discussing this as the highest legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia? I think fellow Stier that you've given a good warning and that you should be more alerted to that as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8449	Thank you very much. If there is, there is no answer. Okay. Now we'll see if there are any answers, Mr. Representative Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8450	Dear colleague, today we are not dealing with an unimportant issue here, we are dealing with an important issue, and that is the question of how discussions will be conducted, how will be handled in the highest representative body of a state. And precisely so that we can discuss other issues and the real problems of our citizens in an orderly and democratic way. I agree with you that tax burdens for our citizens are difficult. They are, unfortunately, but they were necessary because someone for eight years didn't do his job. For eight years, someone has not prepared himself for his discussions, and he obviously does not today, but is of course of the opinion that to attract the public is enough in his discussion to mention Bleiburg, Communism or, of course, the other Tito. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8451	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8452	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague, I just said that this is important, but it is really not in the primary interest of Croatian citizens. That's what I mentioned. So, if you're going to quote, please listen carefully. And who opened the Bleiburg question, so it's really not us. The question was raised by the ruling majority and completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8453	Thank you. Mr. Representative of the Bozidar Kalmeta, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8454	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Stier, I agree with you on that this is actually a completely irrelevant topic when it comes to Croatian citizens and their problems, but I don't think that ha will say no, but the topic which is given too much importance here in the Croatian Parliament. Whether there will be a correction of an incorrect quote or there will be no correction of an incorrect quote, whether there will be a replica like this or what is important here and what is important. The only thing that matters is that it's already been said here so I don't repeat myself, and that's actually the point of changing this Rules of Procedure is that the Government always has the right to say the last word and that the Government is always entitled to the last word. So whatever someone says from the opposition benches, the government always has the last word and can then tell its truth. What he said in the introduction when he explained the proposal for these amendments, Mr. Vice President Leko, said amendments to the Rules of Procedure were being introduced to make it clear to citizens who stood for which option and which policy was represented. I mean, I think it's so disdainful of citizens and voters that I think it's really too much. Because I think that Croatian citizens know very well who the policy represents and therefore go to local and parliamentary elections and vote sometimes for this option, sometimes for that one. Although I do not think that this is really an argument to defend the amendments to these Rules of Procedure. Therefore, here I agree with everything you have said, but I really think that this is a subject which has been given too much importance and that this topic is not at all important for the lives of Croatian citizens whether or not someone in Parliament will have an correction of the incorrect quote. But it's obviously the government's interest to always be their last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8455	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8456	My dear colleague has been quite right this time. And indeed, this is a completely irrelevant topic for an ordinary Croatian worker, a citizen, a peasant, a pensioner. This topic can only cause him a headache, maybe some other thing. Because from this topic to the Croatian citizen, the worker, the peasant won't get any better. His VAT won't go down or he'll get a liter of milk and bread, so I don't talk about meat. Maybe the one that's been imported, the one frozen for five, six years, and then defrosted, that's another thing. The most important thing with this law is that it protects the government, protects the government, and I'll just remind you that your vice president and the entire HDSSB's club under the armed escort of the Assembly Guard took me out because we were telling the truth and we were sticking to the Rules of Procedure. For even today, look only at what the Constitutional Court has written about the consolidated text of the Croatian Constitution, so it will be clear enough for you. So, for free to you, Mr. President of the Rules of Procedure, a parliamentary representative who has his own head and his opinion will always speak, and you can punish him with a long-term prison sentence. It won't help "because the truth is a river deep" and the Rules of Procedure don't make it any better to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8457	That's what we'll see when the application starts. And next in line for an individual debate is Mr. Davor, no excuse he's done Peja Grbin. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8458	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. What is the main task of the Rules of Procedure? Well, the main task of the Rules of Procedure is to ensure a democratic debate, but also to enable all of us MPs to have equal rights, equal rights to speak, equal rights to discuss. With this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, we not only don't lose rights, we get them. We get the right to respond to everyone, but anyone who shows up behind this pay phone and talks about a particular topic from the prime minister to the next. A line we never had before. Prime Minister Sanader, for example, was unable to replicate. Your former president, Mrs. Kosor, too. We're introducing it. Whether it's going to be called a replica. If you are so eager to correct an incorrect quote, I will suggest to the motioner of this document that we replace the replicas institute by correcting the incorrect quote if it pleases you. But what must remain is an opportunity to replicate on the replica. That a colleague, you need to know that when you speak you can expect an answer, you can expect a reaction, you can experience someone matching you. As I longed for your answer after the replica. We've had opportunities to discuss clubs like this or things like that. However, I would particularly like to refer to my colleague Buric's discussion. A colleague studied Wikipedia very carefully and a Wikipedia page regarding a philibuster. However, if we are talking about the rules of procedure and how other Parliaments work, it is sometimes desirable to read the documents themselves, the Rules of Procedures on Work. So, for example, we can read the Rules of Procedure on the work of a Danish Parliament of a very democratic state where there is a possibility that chairing this requirement will determine how someone will speak. So he sees that Mr. Buric came on the list in a row and he says no, and we're going to put him to rest right now, and we don't want to listen to it, and he's going to put someone out of position. In Denmark, one organised democratic country is possible. In Croatia, that would be scandalous. In Norway, for example, another democratically decorated state, it is possible that parliament may, at the beginning of the debate, at the proposal of the chairman, who, as a rule, decides to shorten the debate on some agenda. And he says, um, about the Rules of Procedure and we'll discuss it for an hour. And then there is no longer the opportunity for MPs to speak as much as is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure as they are to speak as much as most have at that point decided. Would that be conceivable in the Croatian Parliament? No, you wouldn't. But it's in Norwegian. Why? Because every country has its own procedure and every country creates it autonomously. We have today decided to propose that this procedure be arranged in a different way. Is that good or bad? I think it's good, you think it's bad. They'll assess the public. Perhaps in 3.5 years you will go with a proposal, among other things, in the campaign to change the Rules of Procedure. I don't know. However, I believe that this proposal is the possibility of a replica that is good for everyone today, so let it be called the correction of an incorrect quote. The other thing that came out here as a problem is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't get lost. So everyone will still have the opportunity to stand up and say, the Rules of Procedure is hurt at the same time as it has been exposed to what he was injured in so far. However, anyone waving at that institute will then be obliged to write one or two sentences simply to stay and then someone will have to answer. However, in that part, I would have one proposal to amend the proposed text of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, in particular I think it would be good to write that in the event that the chairman accepts that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, there is no need for further written explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8459	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we have two replicas reported on your exhibit. First is Honorable Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8460	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. First of all, I'd say something about math very strange. You're trying to convince us that it's from three to one plus that it's an increase. You don't have to finish college to figure out if you've had three so far, and now you've only got one possibility that it's a reduction, not an increase or a gain. As for your wikipedia remarks, I'm about to show you something of a distinguished colleague. So this is your translation of the Rules of Procedure of the 7th Parliamentary Assembly of the EU Parliament. A serious debate between any of us cannot be based solely on wikipedia. You may read it, I use it sometimes, but believe me, I've read this from the beginning to the end. You don't have to. This is the Rules of Procedure of the Hungarian Parliament I was talking about. This is a dissipated view of how the Rules of Procedure of the German Bundestaga is discussed, therefore when it is being prepared for discussion, it is necessary to prepare thoroughly rather than just on the basis of wikipedia. But when you spoke there was also an Italian translation that I'm not pulling out now, when you were talking about how it could be further replicated, etc. So how can we look at what solutions have been used in other parliaments, here I am now asking the question, why don't we put in the Rules of Procedure what it says in the rules of procedure of the German Bundestage in Article 31, the possibility of an explanation is as it is. This means that before the vote, after the debate is concluded, the MP stands up and says, he has the right to say, how he will vote or say, I will not vote. At that time, it would not have happened as it happened to listen to party disciplines, not their own opinions. So we also had opportunities for HDZ representatives to think about one thing. And they say something else. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here I am ending, when a colleague of the mayor of Nova Gradiška seems to me when making the budget, I voted against our amendment to make the rounds around Nova Gradiška. That certainly would not have happened if it had been decided by its conscience, not by the party's path.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8461	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8462	Dear colleague, each of us has the opportunity and the right to explain why he will vote for something or not. That's what we do, that's what you did in your debate, that's what I do in mine. You had the right to point out the amendments as well as the text of the proposed law. But what you're saying, I really agree. Many of these solutions are interesting, good, better or worse than ours. In Denmark, I unfortunately do not have the wording to wave television, but in the Danish Parliament there is one possibility that at the end of the session there will be a debate on anything the MPs want. Is there anything like this we can bring into our Parliament? I think it would be potentially interesting and it would be something to think about and talk about, but these are all the documents we create, which we create as I said before. Is this the best or the worst solution? I don't think it's either of them, but the solution we're working on is that we think we should support it. And a colleague like I used to say, they don't shrink here from three to one, the Institute of Injuries of the Rules of Procedure stays in the same form, you'll just have to write something down. And as for the replica, its possibility spreads to everything that previously covered the correction of an incorrect quote. Maybe instead of correcting the incorrect quote and replicas now came just one thing, but it's much, much bigger than it was before. And there's that simple math one plus one not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8463	Thank you, too. The next replica is the respected representative of Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would only draw Mr. Grbin's attention to one incorrect statement, which is that he could not have responded to the current president or Prime Minister if he had said something in his statement. It could have been not a replica, but a correction of an incorrect quote. And that instrument was such that after that, the government's representative could no longer respond to the MPs. You are now doing something else, you are bringing government representatives into a dominant position over a representative in the Croatian Parliament. So those who should answer to us, who correspond to the Croatian Parliament, have a dominant position in this kind of controversy, and that is a violation of parliamentary balance, whether you want to admit it or not, and therefore leads us to conclude that all of this is done, you are doing to facilitate the job of the Prime Minister and ministers. The other thing I'd like to say to you is abuse, you've said a lot about all the representatives of the ruling coalition to these measures, to try to remove these new proposals from the possibility of abuse. I'm going to warn you of something that may be happening, which will be a lot more abuse than it was a correction to an incorrect assumption. The prime minister or minister comes in here, gives his speech, and 50 MPs come in looking for a replica. So what do we do? Now you had to catch the prime minister or minister in an incorrect quote, so there were two, three, five, ten, and now you're going to have 50 replicas and everything is going to turn into an even bigger circus, as some of you have spoken, and I don't think that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8465	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8466	Thank you. Dear colleague, first of all, you couldn't answer the Prime Minister's or Prime Minister's quote, you could only correct if they said something incorrect. And now that you're saying that you could have responded, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure because it didn't say it there. And now you yourself have made an interesting fact that none of your colleagues have spoken before, which is exactly what you will now be able to answer to anything the Prime Minister, vice president or ministers say. And it is not a democratic procedure whether the debate will last an hour, 20 hours or a few days as respected counterpart Buric said he could be in the United States, Canada, France or the United Kingdom. It is precisely the heart of democracy that you will now get the opportunity to respond to everything that is said for this speaker, the opportunity you have not had so far, and so thank you for pointing out exactly what is important and what is good in this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, which is that everyone will have more rights than they have so far. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8467	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we're gonna stop the debate, we're gonna take a break, and at 3:00, we're gonna start a debate with the respected representative, Zeljko Kolar. It's a good one to eat. At 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8468	... He's a respected representative of Zeljko Kolar. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's this picture, which is currently in the Assembly, perhaps speaks more than the rules of procedure about the work and the lifting of powerful tiles, actually behavior in the Assembly and parliamentary representatives in their business. Being a parliamentary representative is an honor, I believe that the Republic of Croatia is a democratic state and that all parties are democratic who have entered the Croatian Parliament and therefore it is unacceptable for us, and for me personally and club insinuation that this amendment of the Rules of Procedure, that it is in fact a word that someone is not allowed to speak. This would simply be unacceptable for us, and if the objective of amending the Rules of Procedure was to prohibit or prevent the speaking of a parliamentary representative, then I would be the first to oppose the Rules of Procedure. I went to this table where we take the ballots has equal to twenty-seven points of the agenda, currently discussed. In order to prepare a quality debate of ten minutes, and without the support of the committees and clubs that some colleagues have talked about, you have to use a lot of documentation and you have to spend a lot of time studying to be able to get ahead of this high house and something smart and say about it. And then, of course, it's unfortunate that after that ten-minute debate that you have as an individual when you speak and the hours you've separated to prepare for that debate, someone lifts a plate of correcting an incorrect quote and that perhaps in the context of a sentence, something might not have been exactly said, it corrects you or doesn't correct you, and you can't answer that. If I were 100 percent right, I'd written down just a few things, and they're about to amend the Rules of Procedures that were said today. Gentlemen, the party's increasing intrusiveness, ideological differences, incompetent government, absolutely has nothing to do with today's topic, absolutely nothing, and it constantly stretches through the debate, of course, that the individual's ability to react every time he responds here, like now fellow Milinović, because we talked outside and before that, and that's the ability of individuals, it can't all react quickly, quickly lift the plate. However, it is also correct to give the opportunity to the one preparing for the debate to answer that too. And today's debate is first reading, it should actually be an opinion on how the Rules of Procedure should look and that would allow all of us to do our job as best as possible. There was also talk about the committees of huge engagement you should work on the board, mostly the committee's secretaries are available to the board's presidents. Unfortunately, this is so, individually as any member of the board, you can hardly expect any greater help to prepare for a specific debate and that is a fact. Mr Buric mentioned that everything he studied in Parliament, all of which all the states to have such a good debate and she certainly contributed to me looking at things differently than when I saw what I was reading, and I think that my colleague Pupovac was talking about it. I am also of the opinion that in Article 209 or 209a, when we talk about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we should stay in the chair if it finds that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and means that it gives the right to the person who lifted the table that it no longer needs to be informed in writing of the Committee, means that it, in some ways, remains the chair of the meetings that it can assess that the representative is right. This goes into two readings, the goal must be to put the Parliament's work at its best. The aim of this is not to prohibit speaking to parliamentary deputies, is that it would simply be impossible, and that would be underestimating anyone, because here all very serious people, people elected by citizens, representatives of large parties, and if someone wanted to prevent them from speaking there are other instruments. If you were banned from a press conference immediately, the Croatian public and the Croatian state would simply not accept it as a method. They wouldn't take it as a method. Therefore, I view this as the first debate on the Rules of Procedure that will allow us all to do our best, and I say by listening to the debate I did not move from beginning to end, I listened to everything because I was a new representative and I found it interesting to listen to what colleagues who have more experience say, that they might open my eyes to me too, looking at certain elements. On the other hand, many times I watched the meetings of the Croatian Parliament on television, and I could not figure out how from the topic of health or education can end up in Ustashas and Partisans. That is exactly the part I hope will prevent these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8470	The distinguished Stjepan Milinkovic stands up to this replica exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Kolar, and I'm just checking in with the replica, of course, because I didn't find any false allegations in your discussion. I agree with you in the part where you say that the parliamentary representative, therefore, is an honor, but I also agree with the part where you're the new representative, and I don't mean to diminish it, but that you didn't realize maybe the climate, you don't have a specific view of the terrain. Here I have an earlier council so I know a little better the terrain, so also on the sides while your colleagues were in opposition were also using, using mechanisms of various and very successful, also it's a order of such ways, but it's a parliamentary representative and responsibility fellow Members, and responsibility. We must warn therefore, of certain problems that will arise, of certain events that are our obligation, each of us in that part has its own tools. Someone knows the correction of an incorrect quote, it's not simple, so it's always easy and it's always belittled, it needs it at a certain time and formulate and articulate and now it's the easiest thing to say it's not worth it. And if you compare this to the comparisons, then to the other Parliaments. So there are cases in the parliaments of these countries of Europe where you've seen them hit each other, throw themselves at all kinds of props, etc. and that's their way and that's their tool. I'm glad that this is how you feel positive that this should all be nice, so that we should all continue to serve the common good, etc. Here's to getting it all together. But it's not always that possible. Because if we all have an opinion in this assembly, then there's no good debate. And that's why we, we can't possibly accept that one part of the tool that, as counterpart Lesar said, is exclusively an opposition tool, it's a correction of an incorrect quote because we don't have other options. That's why we say it's harmful and it hurts democracy. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8472	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Zeljko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it wouldn't be normal to agree on everything, that wouldn't be normal. But you say it's an opposition tool. True, however, you can now do the same by correcting an incorrect quote. There's absolutely no difference. Instead of raising two tables you raise one. I'd even be personally to remain the correction of an incorrect assumption provided he has the right to a replica. Because you will now have the opportunity to report to the minister after the presentation, and in two minutes, the minister is replicating what has not been possible so far. And you, given the skill you've shown in these few months that I've been following you, I'm convinced that you will often have that plate in your hands, and I doubt you could do it in this old Rules of Procedure because only someone in the name of the club can actually correct the incorrect allegations and then that's the problem. In this way, they will be able to speak more parliamentary representatives and replicate than before. Mr. Jandrokovic said that in his speech. It can be used in the end line. However, the better system of democracy is not invented. He's the one he needs to stick to. And when we make it up or someone else, I believe they'll all stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8474	We continue with an individual debate, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8475	Well, first of all, I think this debate today, although many before me have said that it is irrelevant. I don't think it's irrelevant, that it's a very important debate. Because when we talk about freedoms, and above all about freedom of speech, which is fundamental freedom, it is certainly welcome that speech in the Croatian Parliament. I don't think most of us are trying to deny us the ability to speak. I don't think we should be hypocritical and argue what doesn't stand in this proposal of the Rules of Procedure the way he sees him in the Kukuriku Coalition. However, just as the HDZ majority acted, so did the majority. Although the clubs were called, club presidents or representatives of clubs in the Kukurik Assembly did not respect our proposals. Why? Well, because every government thinks they bought all the brains of this world. It's not parliamentary. The biggest problem is in the Croatian Parliament that is not done in a parliamentary way. We can speak, but this proposal tries, what Mr Buric said instead of two, three, four, five tools given one tool. It is true, they will now be able to replicate to government representatives, the minister will be able to replicate, but also the ministers will be able to fight back so that lawmakers can get word behind each parliamentary MP. Which allows them to replicate and speak after the parliamentary representative and to sum up is exactly what the biggest problem is. The biggest problem is that Parliament is turning into a non-thinking mass, which becomes a place where hands are raised. Tell me, please, which law has ever fallen or in which law has it ever been that the MPs of the majority debated and opposed it in a very dark way, and when it's illogical, they don't do it. So, the thing is, most people want the government to have meetings of the parliament, representatives of the government and even more time to make their opinions even easier and to have the government in charge of the Parliament instead of having the Parliament in charge of the government. It has been said before that dignity, that by abolishing the correction of the wrong allegation, will preserve the dignity of the Parliament. The dignity of the Parliament is certainly not preserved by the removal of the wrong allegation but by the strength and influence of the power of the Croatian Parliament, and the influence of the power of the Croatian Parliament is greater when the Parliament has influence on the government, not the Government influence on the Parliament. I've often heard from this right-hand man who said we'll fight that you have the right to vote. We fought for it, you don't have to fight for us. We fought it, we fought it long ago, the spirit was released from the bottle. You're not going to try to tempt us, are you? As a colleague says, if someone tries, they call a conference. Well, we didn't come to that, so we don't need to talk about it at all that you're gonna let us talk about it. And how are you gonna stop me from talking? You don't have the means, you don't have the tools. Well, you're not just gonna let the MPs, the club representatives, and the MPs are supposed to be the club presidents, and the club presidents are the majority. This film will certainly not be seen in Croatia anymore, and we will all agree on that. On the one hand, the current clock is the government's solution, and on the other hand it is a non-critical display of thoughts about the great progress of the ministers, particularly the Prime Minister or Prime Minister. Just remember what it looked like when it was spoken, when HDZ MPs praised Mrs. Jadranka Kosor or praised Mr. Ivo Sanader. I thought that was a long time ago. But in the last current hour, I saw that the same thing does to the Kukurik coalition. No question has begun without being commended. I don't think it's an interest, that you're interested in questioning your government. If so, then I agree with those who have said by a fellow SDP that in some parliaments, the Nordic parliament presidents decide even how long the debate on a particular topic will take. In fact, let our president or chairman of Parliament limit the panegirics of his own government. There's a government here to answer bile questions. With one piece, I fully agree with what may be the first time with Mr Cain is about the immunity of parliamentary agents. It is said here that this is not resolved by the Rules of Procedure, but by the Constitution, and often here when I speak to my colleagues and warn of some irregularities that we are experiencing, they say, but that's what the law says. We are here people who change the law and change the Constitution. Therefore, the parliamentary representative must speak from this pay phone so that there is no threat that he will answer his spoken word in court. The excellent thing is the possibility of questioning would be to question the government's mandate and future ministers. I hope that the Kukurik coalition will respect that several times expressed wish. How can we vote on people when we don't know their attitudes? On behalf of the entire government, only the prime minister of the government, it would be good to introduce future ministers and that the ministers and prime ministers of the government answer not the questions of all representatives at least the questions of the club president. The greatest controversy is about why the correction of the incorrect quote is abolished, does the replica replace the incorrect quote? To tell you the truth, I think the replica itself is far better than correcting an incorrect assumption, giving the possibility greater. But leave some places and that tool, the correction of an incorrect quote, but let it remain the chairman who must show his authority and terminate at any moment that parliamentary representative who calls for a tool he has no right to. So if you say that this Rules of Procedure democratisations the work in the Croatian Parliament, let us, in addition to correcting the incorrect quote, except for the replica to maybe install another third, fourth, fifth tool. I hope you will appreciate these remarks that we have spoken or written, and one of those that no one has spoken of so far, which are parliamentary delegations. The parliamentary delegations are in an unequal position. You know that only two parliamentary delegations have the status of committee, the other delegations are not aware of the criteria. They said the opposition team was always being punished, they don't have the status of the board. I've made the suggestions, I've made amendments and I'm asking you to discuss it and respect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8476	The amendments can be discussed during the second reading, so it won't be useful now, but we have four replicas to this presentation of yours. First respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8477	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say that my colleague Vuksic made a good point at the beginning when he told Mr Kolar and some other MPs that no one can shut our mouths anymore and the debate about it is really absurd. Neither is this about it nor were they good, in fact it would be terrible if such a debate were being held in Croatia today. But we're discussing technology, so we're discussing the rules of the game, and I'm going to repeat what I said and for the first time, the rules of the game this time are being written so that they please the ruling one. And there's no problem in the controversy between MPs. We're all the same, we're representatives of the people we've chosen here. The problem is in the controversy that we will be leading with representatives of the government, with representatives of the executive government where for the first time if I am not wrong in the history of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the executive government will come into a more favourable position than MPs. They answer to us, not to them, but they will be the ones who will be able to conclude the matter at the end and send the messages that correspond to them. This has not happened in these 20 years of parliamentaryism in Croatia, and I believe that this is a step back and that we can still discuss it. You mentioned me to your colleague Kolar. Well, he did answer to me. ... [[Intruder: You cannot answer your colleague Kolara.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8478	No, you may have to pick up the replica while he was talking, you can only have the basic exposure of his colleagues, Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8479	Okay. Then I'll also mention that when you were an opposition, you had no problem correcting the incorrect allegations. In fact, Mr. Vice President, don't be nervous because you were one of the most prominent advocates who used that tool. And now I'm listening from the ranks of the ruling criticism coalition at the expense of correcting the incorrect allegations. I believe that this is not the most appropriate way and that when we are having a debate on such important issues we should be principled, remind ourselves of what you did, and today you are taking away the same right for us today who are the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8480	Thank you very much. I'm not nervous at all. I'm just following the Rules of Procedure. Branko Vuksic will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8481	Dear counterpart Jandrokovic, I fully agree that a decent, cultural speech, correct but should also be nurtured in this House, the dynamics of the Parliament. Why someone's afraid of saying they'll fight in the Parliament. Why don't we fight? Only this argument should have its own frameworks should be ethical and must neither cause hatred nor expose any insults. Therefore, all that contributes to the controversy, clearing attitudes is welcome in the Parliament. So don't limit the tools.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8482	The second replica is the esteemed representative who wants Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's a colleague, Vuksic, in all his speech, who said that we are the most inconclusive. It's just not right. We're in a second position, we're in power, we've taken responsibility for government and we're looking at different ways and we can influence what the government is doing. Otherwise, in this kind of current practice, I would be raising a correction to an incorrect assumption and you wouldn't be able to answer that. Maybe you didn't mean anything at all in the whole context of that whole story, but the fact is one thing, that defending an argument and your attitude is one thing, that's one thing, and being rude and breaking the Rules of Procedure is another.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8484	This replica will be answered by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8485	Okay, if the Rules of Procedure is broken, that doesn't mean the man is rude. Secondly, I didn't say that most of it was nonsense, I said that Parliament is turning into an unthinkable mass. So she was doing it both ways. I asked when it was gallantly opposed most of the government's laws. When she quietly resisted, when she ever refused any proposal that later, when ever, told me one case that the government's proposal had been rejected. ... The law was withdrawn from the procedure if the government saw it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have often been guilty of making suggestions on our own during the day, in the morning of five, six amendments, not yours, but yours. So that's what I'm talking about, I'm talking about all of us, not just you, I'm talking about the opposition and the opposition, and I didn't mean to offend with that nonsense mass. It's said to put academics on a pile that's a senseless mass, and every academic is an intellectual. And we here can't turn into an unthinkable mass. I'm talking about me and you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8486	The third line will be presented by respected Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8487	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I actually have the correction of an incorrect quote, but democracy works, and I've come forward with the replica. I find it incorrect that my colleague Vuksic said that the government is imposing its opinion, meaning the amendments to this Rules of Procedure because it is imposed on MPs who I consider reasonable people who have their own opinion that it is not so simple for the government to allow it to do so, and on the other hand, criticism and different opinions should again be given the opportunity to respond and reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8488	Here's what it's going to look like in the future, instead of correcting the replica, so now you have the right to answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8489	But I still think, you haven't convinced me that the government is imposing an opinion, that the government is above Parliament, yes, and that I think and that's confirmed in practice and that your practice has reassured the bar, here in five months it's reassured you every time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8490	And the last replica, the esteemed Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8491	Thank you, Your Honor. So, I would like to rephrase to an esteemed colleague, more and more, confirming, agreeing with him when he mentioned the necessity of introducing new tools. So that's what we've been here a few times and we've been stressing in the debate. We are afraid with this proposal from the Rules of Procedure that we are going towards a reduction in the current, even smaller scope of opportunities for participation in the debate, in a speech that is our strongest and only weapon here in the Assembly, and we are not using the experience of other European parliaments that I believe, here you can see that the club of Croatian Labourists is also speaking for another reading to appreciate these remarks which, we are trying to be correct and constructive. They are not made up by us, but exist both in the European Parliament and in Germany and in Italy and Hungary. So let's take over those experiences that, why don't we introduce the possibility of taking part at the end of the agenda in a debate like the case of Germany that, in rule 31, says that you can explain a voice explanation, explain why you don't have to use it, but we're introducing an option. I'm just saying that as an example. Why are you from a particular club despite the club's position being such a single vote? I believe, then, my colleague, I cited this example, that a fellow mayor of the SDP in the event of a vote for the state budget in the New Gradisk amendment, I would say, despite the club's position, I would vote against it or I will not vote. But we have to introduce it, it's just one of the possible tools that some other democracies have introduced. And on the other hand, I don't think we should be slaves. It's a good thing we're having a whole day's debate. It's been a while, yes, I see, but I need to listen, and then really I agree with this, a constructive proposal, let's also introduce new tools that some other democracies have introduced. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8492	This replica will be answered by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8493	Dear fellow Buric, I agree fully with your replica, and I am convinced that the Kukuriku coalition will respect most of our proposals, especially your proposals, which you have made, which were very constructive, and besides, they have highlighted your debate as being one constructive, and I think that in the second reading, the proposal of the Rules of Procedure will look quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8494	We're continuing an individual debate. I call upon my esteemed colleague Anna Lovrin to present her debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I see that there is no President of the Constitution and Rules of Procedure here, but I hope that he will read the phonogram, so he will be familiar with our remarks. So we heard today in several debates that the Rules of Procedure that we are discussing today is not an act that would be important to citizens, that it is the impression that MPs are dealing with themselves by wasting such time instead of solving the issues that people mean life. This may be so at first sight, however, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is an extremely important act. It is important because Parliament is the most legislative body, because laws are passed here that regulate everyday and existential civil issues. Here, a more democratic team must be provided to discuss democratically and freely and to make a free and democratic decision. This Rules of Procedure determines the rules of our conduct, but above all we provide representatives of the Croatian Parliament of the Democratic Institute, democratic tools and solutions so that we can represent the interests of our voters and promote our political views. I will remind you that today's ruling coalition, and then the opposition right now using a lot of the business opportunities of the current Rules of Procedure in the past four years has spoken tirelessly correcting incorrect allegations, replicating endlessly between representatives of its own circle, criticising and attacking the then government, and the citizens have listened to it, and they liked that demagogy, and so they voted for them thinking they would be better than they heard. But is that so? The people did not hear that the SDP and that the HNS through replication and through correction of incorrect allegations said that it would increase VAT to 25%, that it would increase the price of electricity and gas, that in positions in the state administration, public companies would place people of similar party and extra-party friends, relatives all clearly and naturally without a public competition. And the government says they're doing it because they're in charge of power, because they know best what's good for the people, and they're going to do what they want for the next four years, so whoever survives until the next election. Maybe that's why today is thought to marginalise the Croatian Parliament because other than the one-in-one of the fat parliamentary majority and the government doesn't need to hear anything anymore, and that's why we're going to be able to say in this Croatian Parliament that the government has the last. Now let's go back to the specific text of the proposal. In addition to the fact that this 2000 Rules of Procedure survived 8 amendments, it might be good to establish a whole new text of the Rules of Procedure. I know that we are facing further changes under the Act on the functioning of the Government and the Parliament and their relations and parliamentary control over the government within the EU, so I guess we'll get a full text. So, in addition to the amendments that have to be made that have to happen in order to comply with the Law on State Administration on the Part-Corruption of the Ministries and which have to happen because of the amendment of the Constitution, so that they are indisputable and unquestionable, which there is no reason to debate because they have to have several amendments that are proposed and that really depend on what we are going to discuss here together and decide. First of all, he's referring to the Infringements Institute of the Rules of Procedure. With all the perhaps good intentions of the promoter, I think this proposal, these provisions, as proposed, are completely missed. In fact, they do not say anything different from what is in the current Rules of Procedure, and I would say that the explanation of this proposal, which says it will prevent the frequent interruption of the session through the Rules of Procedure's Infringement Institute in such a way that the debate on infringement of the Rules of Procedure is held at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, in fact, does not correspond to the proposed text of amendments at all. Namely, because the session will be interrupted as well as proposed. He who announces that he will ask for an opinion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure has one minute to speak, so he will speak. The chairman will not have to show himself about this breach of the Rules of Procedure, but whoever proposes will be required to submit a request to the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure in writing within 24 hours. And on the board, the Proposer said it wasn't really meant to be like that. Maybe that's not the way it's supposed to be, but that's what the proposal says. Namely, imagine now the situation in which someone raises the board that will announce a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then one minute explains it, then the chairman does not comment, then the Proposer must write this request within 24 hours and the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure must meet and decide within the next 24 hours. So imagine how engrossed that committee will be with decisions daily on the Benign Injuries of the Rules of Procedure whether someone said something to someone, so he insulted or dared to answer it, he shouldn't have answered. So, if you remember the previous work of these decisions when the opinion of the Constitution Committee was requested and the Rules of Procedure may have been several in the course of the year, and this was indeed serious injuries that the Committee then decided on. However, the motioner said on the committee that he would not be obliged to seek in writing if he did not request to lose his right during the entire session of the Assembly on a re-application for a statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure. But that's not what it says here in this proposal. Now it stands exact and firm that he is obliged to do so. So, and now we have an infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure where if a representative raises a plate that has injured the Rules of Procedure, the chairman must be made clear, if the representative is dissatisfied with the opinion of the chairman, then he may request the opinion of the Committee. And I think that this is quite enough and quite well enough and the institute that should leave as such because the proposed changes don't really change anything, according to the proposings, and if it changes in the way it says in the proposal, then I think it will be almost impossible to implement it in practice given the burden of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. It is also said that the reason for this amendment is to make it impossible to conduct a debate on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The current article 209 explicitly states that the representative cannot respond to the president’s statements. Therefore, when the chairman decides whether the infringement or not is not a representative, he may only request the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. The Institute is correcting an incorrect allegation. I think this is the institute to think about. He has his own sense of purpose because he allows quick intervention of MPs in the event of obvious untruths. It's true that there was a lot of abuse that purposed what out of misunderstanding. But it is not good to do what is done in Croatia and in the event of the law being passed that when a certain law or institute is misapplicated or the law is not implemented that instead of using all the tools to enforce this law or to prevent abuses that are available instead of using them to change the law, a new law is passed to make that happen. So, what I'm saying is that even in the event of the abuse of the institute of correcting an incorrect quote there's always the chairman, we heard in the debate that he might need to be given more authority, but I think even under the current Rules of Procedure he has enough power to intervene anyway, but to actually use all the tools at his disposal. We have often talked about the fact that we can pass any procedural laws, administrative or judicial processes, if one who conducts them, which is a judge or an edit reference, does not use all the tools to actually carry out this procedure and to disable its, its abuse. Today, the replica institution is troubled, and I'm going to hurry up, and we hear even that it's proposed to ban replication within my own club, so I really don't know if it's, as my colleague said, the institutionalization of one brain because maybe now the government thinks that even its representatives have nothing to talk about and don't need to talk about because she knows best. So it's not good. We were also witnesses here in the Croatian Assembly of an unloved scene where the prime minister was waiting for, or almost threatened by the presidents of the HDZ Club because the representatives asked him questions he didn't like. I hope that this scene will never happen again and that we will keep enough democratic mechanisms so that we can really say what we think and what we think we should say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8496	I hope we stick to time in the future, preferably more than we do now. Dear colleague Lovrin, at the beginning of your debate, you expressed regret that there was no chairman of the Constitutional Committee. Because of Vice President Lek, because of you but also because of the public I am obliged to say that visiting the Parliament is a Canadian delegation, we welcomed them when they were here on the balcony, and Vice President Leko has a protocol obligation to be with the Canadian delegation and as soon as they finished he came to the hall. So much for the public. We have five replicas on this exhibit of yours. Here's the first replica to be presented by the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8497	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But first of all, I would also like to thank my colleague Lovrin because it is very true, very precise even better than me to point out to my colleagues Stier and colleagues Jandrokovic how much their point of view is that the debate on the Rules of Procedure is irrelevant. So, fellow Lovrin, thank you again for that. But once and for all to solve a dilemma here, and that's the question of who's talking last, ma parliamentary representatives of colleague Lovrin. If you have read the Rules of Procedure, and I believe that it is, Article 223a(4) regulates that the representative of the Club of Representatives may explain why he asked for it, so if you were not satisfied with the presentation of the Government representative, the motionary representative, ask nicely for a break, then explain. It is only now that all of us MPs will have the opportunity to replicate and then get an answer when we are dissatisfied or intrigued by the presentation of the club's representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8498	We'll hear the answer to the replica. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8499	Thank you very much. Well, here I would first of all say that in a few discussions it was said that this is, and I just wanted to point out that the Rules of Procedure is an important act, and that is what fellow MPs have been saying really that we have been dealing with some things here for several months that may be of little importance to citizens, and that is why I have illustrated how citizens have made one important decision, perhaps not a good one later, by just listening to us here, our debates in the Croatian Parliament. And what I said, and that's what my colleague Jandrokovic was saying, and I think it's good, well pictured the fact that instead of simplifying the matter, we're going to complicate it. Because even so far, the Government's representative could have made it very difficult for you to correct any incorrect allegations that a proposal was far more difficult to find, to expose the representatives of the Government, to make it very difficult to correct the incorrect allegations, and now you will be able to replicate it as you wish and to expose it or to expose the representatives of the club to which it will last or may last indefinitely. And that's why it's not a simplification, but it seems to me that we're going to get even bigger, let me put it that way, so it's not a rude word. And as for the motionor, or representative of the Government, he could always ask the chairman's word and always be able to answer the MPs to the allegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8500	And now, dear colleague Gordan Jandrokovic is signaling that we have broken the Rules of Procedure in some place.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8501	Mr. Chairman, I have not suggested that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, but Mr. Grbin and this article 214 is, by his conduct, deviating from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly, not telling the truth. At no point did I say that this debate was not important, he probably mixed it up with some others, so I would ask him to listen carefully to what the MPs say and do not accuse fellow MPs of what they did not say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8502	We have another replica, dear Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8503	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrin, you have pointed out on several occasions, I would like to say that I should like to remove the correction of the incorrect allegations and I must admit that I fully agree with you, especially in this case, to remind you again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. There is, so they have this institute. We are going to the European Union so much we swear on all of this and in our own Rules of Procedure we will end it. I would like to remind you of this article in 151 which is a little different, a personal statement: "Advocacy seeking a word for making a personal statement is slightly different, speaking at the end of the debate on the relevant agenda point, or when adopting the minutes, etc. The representatives, therefore, limit their personal statements to the denial of possible objections which were made during the debate or about them, or opinions attributed to them, or failure to correct even their own statements." According to the correction, this is a kind of correction of the incorrect allegations and other MPs, and possibly our own statements that may have been misread. If this exists in the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I do not know why we are removing that tool, as counterpart Vuksic said. On the other hand, when we talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will remind you again of the Bundestag Rules of Procedure. We complicate it in such a way that it is better that we do not have it, until you announce it, while this, while you have, in Article 29(3), clearly defined that each member of the Bundestag may ask the question of damage to the Rules of Procedure and it has even been available for five minutes. And we can get an answer in forty eight hours, last grandmother with cookies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8504	And this replica will be answered by the esteemed Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8505	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Buric, I really think that maybe everything went well, but this text, this proposal that we have ahead of us, doesn't solve what we'd like to solve first of all through the processing of the Institute's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So it needs to be done quite differently. But I think the current solution is good because you get a spot-on answer except in complicated situations when the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure declares itself. Of course, the institute correcting an incorrect quote is an institute that needs to be well thought out. I'll remind you that, even in the previous session, when the second option was in power, we were considering abolishing this institute because of frequent abuses. And then today's ruling, and then the opposition disobeyed that proposal and didn't flinch because they used the institute well. So, but he certainly needs to be well thought out, and he needs to be seen in which way and how to keep it and how to properly regulate the mechanisms to prevent abuses. Because sometimes you really need to react to inaccuracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8506	He will now use his right to replicate his colleague, Zeljko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8507	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to say, in two things, I agree with Mrs. Lovrin, which is that she realized that this was done in good faith and that this was to be discussed. And about the second that this is important, that it is an important debate on the Rules of Procedure because just the colleagues from her club and colleagues Stier and colleagues Djakic and counterpart Kalmeta were just saying that this is totally insignificant today, as we are talking about, and also colleague Vinkovic in the replica joined the story. About that part you were saying that replicating would complicate the process. No, we disagree. We think that democracy has no price and that as many MPs as possible will be able to address the prime minister and ministers that they will be able to replicate, that it will create a clear picture of those laws, of those they defend and propose and of those arguments that you agree with or disagree with in them. You also took advantage of your debate on the Rules of Procedure that you are concerned that the citizens of Croatia will survive in these four years while there will be a left coalition in power. I assure you, if the survivors of your 8 nothing can ever happen to them again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8508	Dragica Zgrebec is the next representative to present the replica You haven't answered. [[Intruder Lovrin: A me]] Three of you here watching, three of you watching. [[I did.]] You haven't answered, I'm sorry. Here you go, colleagues. Three of us are watching. [[Intruder Lovrin: How I didn't answer at the beginning, and well.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8509	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8510	Excuse me. We don't have any reason to, but nothing to deny you the right to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with the presentation of my colleague, Lovrin, when she says it is an important document, because, in fact, according to the Rules of Procedure, the work of the Parliament is being arranged, the way law is being passed and some other things are being arranged. And it's important that we upgrade this document. It has changed several times over the past 22 years, and we have actually improved the way Parliament works. Let's remember that we only had a correction of the incorrect quote, so we introduced a replica, then a replica on the replica, so we came back once again so that it could only be replicated once. However, it could be concluded from her statement that we are now making it impossible for the opposition that because it will not have the correction of an incorrect quote and replica, it will not actually have the opportunity to present its programme to its voters, the public, enough to present to the citizens, and among other things you said that this infinite replication and corrections have actually come to victory. In fact, the fact is that in these elections it was decided between the two programmes, between the government that was completely inefficient, which brought Croatia to the brink of the crisis and it wasn't hard to decide then whether we were here or not. And as for the relations between the parliamentary majority and the government, no matter what it was, it was always a relationship to the same programme and it would be even abnormal, I would say immorally that the parliamentary majority does not support the government when it comes to the programme on which both the government and that parliamentary majority have received citizens' trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8512	To respond to this replica in time, the esteemed Anna Lovrin appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, you won the election on the program, but also on what you are for four years, what your citizens listened to here in the Croatian Parliament. Well, I was worried that the citizens would survive this way until the next election, but you didn't say in the program, and you haven't spoken in four years. All that is now done, and what I have listed in my presentation, is that you will raise VAT to 25%, that you will collect electricity, gas, that you will name similar to supervisory approvals, public companies, in the state administration, that you will abolish the laws of those we have committed by signing accession negotiations with the European Union that we will implement because we have brought them, that you will end it and ultimately your current Deputy Prime Minister, Greekic, has said before the elections that you will of course not say everything you will do because then who would vote for you at all. Yet, people believed that you would do what you told them in the pre-election program, so they voted for you. And of course, it seems to people today, that's what individual representatives are alluding to when they listen to us dealing with ourselves instead of dealing with issues that are burning and existential to them. But we have been passing these laws that are important to them for daily life in this House for months. So we don't have the opportunity to discuss it, we don't have the opportunity to at least consider our proposals and think about theirs, about possible integration into the law, or about any proposal that the government might accept. Of course, in a brief procedure, the urgent procedure of amendments is difficult to fix even when it is not changed politically, but only nomotechnically and explicitly would change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8514	The last in a series of replicas will be presented by a respected colleague, Dan Spicer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8515	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague Lovrin, thank you very much in advance for your reply to the replica you've raised. You've said a lot of things today that don't really stand, but one of the facts that you said at the beginning, which is what my colleagues and colleagues agreed with before me. So, yes, this debate about the Rules of Procedure is really important. And you yourself have concluded that unlike your colleagues from your HDZ club that the Assembly is dealing with itself that this is not the case. And I thank you for actually denying your own colleagues. But what you have said in my humble opinion is wronged by a few things. You said the point of this proposal was to marginalise the Croatian Parliament. It's simply not true and it's simply not true. The replica on the government's representative or representative of the club, for example, is just speaking the opposite and vice versa. So, this proposal further democratisations the procedure, making it even more possible for parliamentary deputies to speak. The Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure as you said that this change, which is proposed, has been completely missed. On the contrary. So far, the breach of the Rules of Procedure has hurt the Rules of Procedure more than it has defended him. And this very new proposal, colleague Lovrin, is a serious debate and the role of MPs in this House. And what I personally don't like is that you and your colleagues from the HDZ Club have been constantly loading the burden on us in the SDP, but also in this new proposal, it's this continuing public deception. Failing the public with the guilty thesis that the new draft Rules of Procedure blatantly violates freedom of speech in the Parliament. The only colleague, Lovrin, who is being violated by this new proposal, is the future possibility of abuse that has so far been extremely used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8516	And in this replica, we will hear the answer of the esteemed Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8517	Thank you very much. Well, you either don't understand or you don't seem to understand first of all, so I already said once, even though I should be in our club, I can think differently from my colleagues at the club, it's not forbidden, but they were talking in the context of citizens having such perception that we are dealing with our own rules of procedure instead of talking about important laws that are not in front of the Croatian Parliament and we can't discuss. So, so much, and I still wanted to point out how important this Rules of Procedure is at the bottom of the issues that are important to citizens. You were talking about marginalising the Parliament, not only this Rules of Procedure, so we have passed several laws in the last month or two in an emergency procedure immediately and now to those who have been in the Croatian Parliament's responsibilities. So we said the Parliament won't decide anymore, they won't discuss it, the government knows best, the government is responsible for four years doing what they want, setting up whoever they want, and then whoever survives we'll go to the election in four years. I can tell you from the Law on the restructuring of HZ, the Law on the efficient use of electricity, on licensing, on the conditions that the Parliament has established so far, will now be a resolution minister, although it is not even passed on to the Government but to the Ministers of Resorship. Here, that's the marginalization I'm talking about, and this is just one element of that marginalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8518	Thank you very much. We will now hear the debate of a respected colleague, Stjepan Milnkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8519	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am in the course of the debate, using my tool that I have often used, and in the last term I said a lot of things, I have no intention of repeating myself, but I have no intention of reaching that record by Ante Kovacevic. I never thought of it that way, but while I was using the correction of an incorrect quote, it was never my intention to discredit my opponent, it was my intention to correct the incorrect assumption and to warn me whether I did it effectively. I developed one of my styles that one of them approved, they said, some of them gave me all the credit, and others said the experts saw it wasn't exactly something like this or something but in any case I think I contributed to one dynamic in the debate in the Assembly in one way and my dear God didn't embarrass me. But we have heard in the course of the debate now all about these amendments to the Rules of Procedure of that constitutional part where I would not have had anything to add, perhaps by harmonising with the structure of the state administration, but we have also heard of the responsibility and let's tell the criminal some responsibility or material about which colleague Cain spoke with whom I am here on the way to the last meeting to change countless corrections with him and by very correct relations we have ended our mandate with sincere and such relations and today we have, no matter what they may have been once. I may once have been warned by the President and my God in that regard, and I am not angry. It's also one of the options and it's all possible. But for sure, as far as responsibility is concerned, I want to say one thing and the penalty is that the maximum punishment for a representative is that he can't speak, that he can't say. Because here we have our obligations to make laws, but we also have an obligation to represent the interests of the environment from which we come. I come from the agricultural environment and I have to tell my farmer, my dear Jožina my VAT has grown to you are prices, VAT has increased, energy prices have gone up to you, it's hard for you, it's hard, and I have to explain to him in one accessible way. He doesn't like long debates here, lamentations etc. He likes it clearly and briefly. He does not understand the expression that I once heard from this assembly about an earlier meeting where a colleague said it was a progressive vertical resolution. Here's what I'm gonna tell you. I didn't really try that either. So I'm trying to explain to him what he said, and I can't do it again, so you understand. It's a matter of form whether I speak in ten or sixteen, etc. It's my style, my way. But I ask the right to say it in one way I want to, and now in this part I must express regret that this reads that you have no opportunity, there is no such possibility I will not be able to because surely here the goal is to protect the government, protect the position you understand, and that we will not be able to, because Friday's vote will be as agreed in the club, and we will not be able to warn dear colleagues, the vote. And now more, I'm glad that Mr. Vice President Leco here to say there will still be a code and some responsibility means you're gone, but there will have to be another service following you, if I understand, Mr. Vice President. You'll probably follow our arrival or fail to understand. In that part I express one concern about it, please explain it if I don't understand correctly you're the one who knows about it. Who's gonna follow who I find very timid and reminds me of some time in that part. So I'm asking for freedom of speech for us so that we can talk here in our own way, no matter what some people make fun of if I'm talking about plowing, plowing, fielding. Well, that's wonderful, so the field feeds us, please. It doesn't have to be all academic levels, and that way, you have to say it the way you think, but you need that possibility. You don't need to give here a condition to be a lullaby here in the Parliament. Maybe it's your intention to make us fall asleep, and we have to do this dynamically, and in that sense, I'm going to stand up for it, and every correction to an incorrect quote don't touch me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8520	Thank you. Here's this new Rules of Procedure that we're discussing almost as if it's in effect, we don't have any corrections to the incorrect assumption, but that's why we have five replicas. Dinko Buric, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8521	Thank you. Even if it were a correction to an incorrect assumption, after such an inspired speech, I wouldn't be correcting it, but I'd give you a chance to say something else. I'm particularly glad that you finally, it seems you had to come to the opposition to realize that you really need to speak in a way that people understand us and that we represent the citizens we represent. I don't remember in the past eight years, at least not in the last term, the year and a half as far as I was, that at least the MPs from where I came from at the time of the ruling HDZ were fiercely defending Slavonia and Baranja's interests. Everything we were suggesting you refused, but well, you'd better think of it ever better than never. I also agree with this that we should not talk so that they do not understand us so here if we should and in ten I am glad that you have confirmed that then, and the current vice president of the Parliament Mr. Shakespeare was wrong when he revolutionizedly left the assembly when I was our Slavonic Vienna boy here, when I was quoting, if you remember what it was, I don't know what it was like, I'm a fat Slavonac, I'm not handsome but I'm perfect, for Slavonia and Baranja. That's when he came out, and now you see that in tens you can still talk. And as for drowsiness, I would also tell you because it is not good for the Croatian political scene, the HDZ Club, stop acting as if you woke up from general anesthesia, as if you were anaesthesia, finally becoming a real opposition so that the truly ruling majority could not exercise tyranny over us minorities. This is important for all of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8522	Replication response, Honored Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8523	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Buric, I certainly think that Vienna is one firm form that should be supported, but I come from the end of one where a sub-level one melos is sung, and I'm adding him this more figure piece of my own that I have so it's a good combination and I appreciate that approach to your local problem too, so fight for my own. So I would also like to warn myself of the problems of the public in my territory, farmers who are indeed in great difficulty. I think that should be warned because the village was never harder. But I want to warn you one more moment, these days there's no line to the media as well. I raise my voice, we raise our voice, and in this way we want to warn the same public that we must have the same transport infrastructure, that we must be traffic-related to the rest because we have been neglected for years. And it's a way of fighting therefore for the interests of your environment, whether it's going to have a form of this or that which is now God's dear anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8524	It's also going to be replicated by a esteemed colleague of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's a colleague, we were colleagues in the last meeting, right, so maybe we have a little longer memory. But I'd like to rephrase to you in that part where you're kind of even complaining that you don't know how to explain to some of your people in the area where you live, how this increased VAT, how there was an increase in electricity, gas, why it was hard to live. Allow me, I'm taking the right to suggest something. So I suggest that when you explain why it is so today, you remind those people in your area that behind us is the eight-year HDZ government, not counting on what happened before, the eight-year HDZ government thanks to which today this government has to make moves that it is doing because the HDZ government has already robbed the state, state finances, excessively charged the prices of all possible projects and works that have been conducted, and that it may not have been the sub-level bio-biological ipslon already finished, without saying that today there would be money to finish, and not that several times the works have been opened because of the need of local or parliamentary elections. Perhaps in this way we should begin to explain a little bit more to people why we are in the situation we are in today, not to mention that the entire HDZ party used state money through black funds to finance the self and campaigns that were made. Well, that's how we can talk, and it'd be good-looking that way. I believe the people in that part would understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8526	The replica will be answered by the respected Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8527	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've gone a little bit into this legal issue, I mean the inadequacy of judgments, etc., but I'd like to tell you that we've been in correct relations and in the past, me and you and we'll probably stay in this and this is a way that we can therefore face our own opinions. But I want to remind you also that during last government, the largest number, 3 billion kunas of support to farmers, was the largest support in that part and in that time. 500 modern stables have been built, agriculture has been promoted, and now it has been thrown on its knees. That's your score. And the other thing, as far as ipsilone is concerned, you could have done it in the time between 2000 and 2003, but now the work is under way, and you want to stop them. Give me the right to defend that road that life means to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8528	Before we continue with the replicas to hear where we hurt the Rules of Procedure. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament or Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yeah, we hurt the Rules of Procedure. Namely, fellow Sobol injured Articles 214 and 209 and 208. First and foremost, she got away from a topic that she didn't, and secondly, she insulted all of us HDZ members, absolutely everything because she told one big lie, it's embarrassing. And allow me, I'm not going down to that level because I could also double-injure the Rules of Procedure if I were to say what the SDP is saying and immediately... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8530	What was the lie and what was offensive?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8531	The truth is that HDZ members used black funds, that's not true. (Laughter) All members.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8532	It is good that we have heard this violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it is also good to change the way in which we can talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing... I'm asking you nicely not to throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I welcome you to remain parliamentary as much as possible and allow colleagues to discuss it. The next replica, distinguished representative Lidija Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8533	Mr. Chairman, well-respected counterpart Milinkovic, as well as most HDZ colleagues, is trying to impose today the thesis to prevent MPs from speaking. And that's not true at all. Rather, it is only now that MPs are allowed to speak, or be given the opportunity to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8534	We'll hear Stephen Milinkovic's answer here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8535	My colleague Bagarić, so I don't really have this one, maybe I shouldn't even answer, so we can talk but there are various speech models, dear colleagues, there are also tools of various speeches. So far, there have been tools that have made this possible in a certain way, which have contributed to the dynamics of the debate in this House, and so has the intention. It's written in that section, it's a correction to an incorrect quote, to be brief, effective, clear, and to be understood by many. And this second part of the intention of this so speak in that sense that it is kind of dead, that it is said that you convince us everything is good, see now it's all nice, wonderful, we'll clap 25% is good, etc. It is not the intention, we must warn just as colleagues in the previous session have warned of certain circumstances on this side. It's democracy. But, well, we're learning a little bit and it's going in its own order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8536	The desire to replicate was also expressed by MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8537	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Milinkovic, here's how we have a dynamic discussion when we replicate, not when we're correcting incorrect allegations. Here's the ten of you talking about it, so if you let me narrow your argument down to verses, not ten, but it says, "You can do anything but correct the quote, don't touch me." I'm also from the agricultural area, but I don't understand maybe it would be good if you could explain to me a little more how it would make it impossible for the electoral body, therefore to the residents of your county or mine or anyone else in its electoral units, to explain some of the government's actions that we agree with or disagree with. I agree with you as I have said before with your colleagues and with my colleague Buric, who has replicated me, so the mission is also the primary task of the representatives especially of the opposition to constantly warn about what they think is wrong. And no one can and cannot deny this task. But I also remind you of Article 210 of the current Rules of Procedure, but which will not change, which says the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. So, when we're discussing agriculture, I'd be very happy to change the replicas and talk and talk, but this is, in my opinion, a much more dynamic way of discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8538	And the last replica of the respected representative Sandra Petrovic. ... Dear colleagues, neither I nor my colleague, but we really don't have any of that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I looked closely at you, you did, look at the fellow I looked closely at you. You wrote something to each other, but you didn't pick up the tile. I'm sorry, it happens. Forget the man, but it's no big deal. So, respected representative Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go. Here you go. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, you can answer to me and my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic, if you haven't arrived to raise the bat. Here I'll just briefly look back on your part of the show where you said you'd changed the sequence of incorrect allegations along the way with your distinguished colleague Caine. In fact, you couldn't change the corrections of an incorrect quote, could you? Only replicas can be exchanged and only replies, i.e. replicas and replica replies, can be exchanged. So I think this is a little more democratic than correcting an incorrect quote. I remember maybe a week or two ago you mentioned, you mentioned yourself, in a correction of an incorrect quote, so in an instrument that I couldn't answer, you mentioned an incorrect quote, which is the abolition of the railway station in Đurđevec. I don't know if you remember that thesis of yours. So, I didn't have the opportunity to deny to you, in any way, that information you provided that was incorrect, and I don't know where you really got it. Among other things, you said in part of the debate where you talked about your ending, you talked about your farmers about plowing, plowing, your Yoga and the way you explained to your Yogi how the government raised the VAT to 25%. So why didn't you say something about the business of your municipality? Why didn't you use your right to say that? On the other hand
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8540	And the time for replication is limited, and it's just expired.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8541	Oh, okay, thanks. I'll just say what it is
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8542	But don't, don't, because time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8543	Yeah, all right. All right, I respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8544	The replica will be answered by a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8545	Thank you very much. My colleagues, I'm glad, you remind me of something I'm so much of, I'm not a colleague of Cain's, I've made a correction. Now maybe it's a form, maybe I'm wrong to say here that I've changed the correction with him. It's not true that I didn't, but I made him a correction, so let's do it. You remind me of my one correction that was a long time ago, maybe 15 days, 20 days, we can look at the phonogram to see who's telling the truth and in what context. I really can't remember this moment now, but always with joy I talk to my dear colleagues about my community, about my environment which is extremely well organized, extremely well functioning, has the best farmers, my colleague Hajdukovic has the best cattlemen in Nice Ours who every day and in these circumstances 30 thousand liters of milk each day deliver the market. I know that they will not be corrected or replicated by their situation, but those measures that the government has taken have significantly improved production and milk and modern stables have been made, etc. These were efforts to boost the competitiveness of agriculture, dear fellow, and that's how I advocate it. And the fact that I'm defending the interest of my community I said in my debate it's my duty and my duty, I have to do it that way. And why don't I warn you of the intention, yesterday I got, dear colleague, intent and announcement that the Railway Station in Djurđevec wants to be abolished. I won yesterday, and I respect that, and I wrote the answer in writing to the minister that there was no such intention. Thank God there is no, but I would also like to warn you that it is unacceptable for us to announce any of the ministers and anyone because the spoken word is very important and it confuses the public, that we are being abolished so intently, but that the highway stops the works on the highway that life means to us. I have to do it one way or another, it's my ability to communicate it's my way of communicating and I'm doing it that way and I've been working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8546	We continue with an individual debate that will now include the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, we've already heard a lot of things and said about this decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the abolition of the Institute of Correction of Inaccuracy which does not suit me personally, and I protect the right for a representative in the Croatian Parliament to have the opportunity and the right to intervene when he hears inaccuracies that would be given. We also heard that many times the abuse of this institute was used, and I admit that we may have gone too far in such events and that we have abused that injury. correcting an incorrect quote. However, I would like to list some examples that would now be disabled, rather in a replica that would be referred to whether to the Prime Minister, whether to the president or to the minister of any cabinet, as well as to fellow Members or colleagues. Surely that ratio would be in favour of those who are now in position, not those who are in opposition. From this I see a clear reason, such as that, I think that fellow Buric or someone said that one in three is the ratio now in relation to the strength and ability to respond to one dialogue that should be in this Parliament. To protect the right of a parliamentary minority it is absolutely certainly a demagogue flossula that is spoken in this House and is gone, there is no possibility of us using the replica anymore to respond. The replica by the minister or by the Prime Minister was certainly possible even now, when he has the opportunity to intervene for the Croatian Parliament speaker and answer unexplained questions or what was referred to him at any time when it enabled him to hold the presidency. I believe that at these moments we all look together at how to handle this best, I think we should remain this institution correcting an incorrect quote with some improvements or some measures that would not allow abuse. I will say how I will react to what my colleague Milinkovic said about it, and that is to say that Mr. Hajdas Doncic says that no work on the sub-level ipsilon has even begun, and I personally went and convinced myself that 11.5 kilometers of open trails are scattered with 11 ready objects waiting to be joined by asphalt and put into operation the section towards Bjelovar, as well as the Križevci, I personally became convinced and counted. I think that's exactly how it should be intervened, Mr. Minister, you've incorrectly established or been misinformed by your officers that it isn't and that it doesn't stand the way you said. Also, when it comes to gas collection, I will speak in small examples, if the gas was collected by 30% the minister says it is for the purpose of stabilising or to make the prices that have been regulated on the world market, then it cannot be said on the other hand that it is true, it is incorrect because it has increased the salaries of officials and employees in these companies. As in HEP 20% salary increase and an automatic increase of 20% of the cost of electricity, kilowatts, and in the second direction the salary increase of HEP employees. It should be said that it is incorrect, that it is especially when we know that HEP has finished its last year with 800 million kunas to gain then there is no reason to increase the cost of electricity. But I think that this institute corrects an incorrect quote should remain precisely because of these petty examples and that I do not now list what happened in this short time. But I will also say that in Articles 6 and 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the Proposer explained, in these two articles, the harmonisation of the working-legal position of officials in committees with the Law on civil servants and tenants. And the Law on civil servants and tenants has been put out of force except for provisions relating to salaries and other material rights of officials, and the Law on civil servants is fully applicable and that law applies. You have wrongly defined what you have put into the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure. However, the provisions of Article 7. Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure indicate that it is not a matter of harmonisation with the law but of gross violation and neglect of the provisions of the Law on civil servants, that despite the amendments, amended articles of the Rules of Procedure indicate that clubs have the right to employ officials from or outside the professional service. It is evident that the provisions of Article 7 shall apply. The amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure mostly refers to persons outside the professional service of the Croatian Parliament who will be employed by clubs. By way of derogation from Article 47 of the Law on civil servants, Article 48 provides for conditions for admission to the State Service and Article 49 provides for obstacles to admission to the State Service. In accordance with Article 56 of the Rules of Procedure, the same article also provides for the release of the State Expert Examining as the new Article 30.b of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the provisions of the laws relating to inter alia to the State Expert Examining shall not apply to officials who are to be employed in the Clubs of Representatives, imagine. It is evident that party persons who should be employed in the Croatian Parliament are placed above the law. It should also be pointed out that this is a provision in cohesion and with the amendment of Article 30, paragraph 4, which requires compliance with the conditions laid down in the law. And the State Expert Exam is one of the conditions, even the most significant condition since the State Expert Exam is the reason for the interruption of the State Service. In this respect, it is not clear either on the basis of which the rules of the persons who have the right to employment are placed in a privileged position compared to the current official, professional service officers who had to pass the State Professional Exam and meet many other conditions continuously improve to be able to do their job. In particular, given that people who are to be employed in clubs have the same material rights as officials, professional services of the Croatian Parliament, and there are no conditions that these persons should satisfy to prove their expertise, training to work in the professional service of the Croatian Parliament. The question arises, whether these persons will be screened or hired in the Croatian Parliament by persons against whom court proceedings have been conducted, as has been the practice of this government so far. These provisions of the Rules of Procedure actually enable the employment and material care of party like those of the ruling Coalition to pass the law, as well as the rude discrimination of officials of the professional service of the Croatian Parliament. In addition, if persons who are entitled to employment are employed for a specified period, it is not clear on which list is based on the provision of Article 3(3) of this Article, which determines that, at the end of the term of office, they are assigned to the vacancy of the vacancy for which they meet the conditions. In view of the fact that their working relationship with Article 7(1) and (3) of this Article is terminated, they shall cease to work within the period of their term of office. Namely, this provision applies precisely to persons outside the professional service and not to officials of the professional service of the Croatian Parliament. The applicant should also be warned that in accordance with paragraph 9. 61. The Civil Service Act cannot, for a certain time, become a state service indefinitely. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, paragraph 2 of Article 55, provides that each under equal conditions is to be made available to the workplace and to society. Therefore, this bold advantage to individuals in terms of enabling them to be employed without any professional or other criteria in the highest state institution representing all citizens of the Republic of Croatia is offensive to any conviction. Since the Croatian Parliament is the highest institution in the Republic of Croatia, the holder of the legislative authority and representative body of citizens is inadmissible in such a harsh and arbitrary violation of the Constitution and the law as is the case with the provisions of Article 7 of the amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure. This article should therefore be completely deleted. Here you can see how much this has been done nebulously in these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and how it wants to institutionalise employment without competition, without criteria and without conditions. You will continue to leave at work those you will bring for any reason whether party or any other in this Croatian Higher House which prescribes laws on civil servants and tenants, which prescribes laws and employment criteria. And therefore we cannot agree with these amendments and the additions of the Rules of Procedure as well as the erasure of an institute called the correction of an incorrect quote that we want to continue to use perhaps under stricter criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8548	On this exhibit, we have as much as 7 replicas and 1 correction of an incorrect quote. First we'll hear the correction of the incorrect quote, Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8549	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I will correct the incorrect allegations of fellow Djakic, who said that Minister Sinisa Hajdas Doncic said that the Belarusian ipislon has not yet begun construction. That's not true. Sinisa Hajdas Doncic, the minister of infrastructure and transport, said that so far works worth 58 million kuna amounting to 13% of the budget value of investments have been carried out. So what you said isn't true and it doesn't stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8550	A very correct correction to an incorrect quote. When you started talking, you haven't even gotten to the point in your first line of lines yet, your colleague, Đurjica Sumrak, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8551	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, and especially thank you for keeping an eye on me. But, however, my colleague Djakic said you'd sign all this. I'd like to say more about what you forgot to say, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Just a beautiful example was shortly before the appearance of MP Sobol's colleague when she insulted her I could say that out of 220 HDZ members, 220 000 HDZ members, she must have offended them. I wouldn't laugh, I wouldn't laugh, because those who have sinned in prison are no longer members of the HDZ anymore. She insulted her saying that we HDZ members used black bags. Comrade Stazic, don't laugh. There are honest, honest people, yes. Honorable and honest people are in HDZ who do not have and do not have property, cars and villas. We and the former government, President Kosor, have just opened the way, so here's where. I'm sorry you don't have the strength to do that with yourself. Now you want to cancel this so that 24 hours in advance I should now announce that I will seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You can't even solve this kind of insult by hurting the Rules of Procedure but by some other things. You see, a colleague has immunity. She insulted me, insulted me just as much as most of these 220,000, is because they're honest and honest people. Those who are not, we within HDZ, have opened President Kosor's door back two years and are now responding. When you do that, I'll take off your hat, you may be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8552	Here's how it is, fellow twilight. First, I can't stop laughing when I hear something funny. I'm sorry, but it's just like that. Secondly, it is rare to object to the way it represents the replica, but you have responded to Djakic's replica. You didn't say one word about his exposure, but you did semi-limize with your colleague Sobol. So this, not only does this not know against the business use of the quote-fixing board, but even against the business use of the replicator's institute, so please stick to the Rules of Procedure as it is. This will enable us all to work better and better. We now have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8553	Mr. Chairman, I believe that Article 214 of the speaking article has been injured, which says that the representative is being told a warning, although I do not ask for it if by my conduct he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. A colleague Jandrokovic had just used this article of his Rules of Procedure and said that means when a representative is not telling the truth. Comrade twilight, please check the phonogram. I said the campaign party used money from black funds. That's exactly what I said. Here, take a look at the phonogram. And I don't think I've offended anyone in particular, but I'm what's common knowledge. Please, and therefore, I would ask you to listen carefully to what is said in the future, even if nothing else is said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8554	Thank you. I now apologize to my colleague Djakic I should have given him first the chance to respond to the replica, and then go to this breach of the Rules of Procedure. But now you're going to get a chance to answer to your colleague, twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Still, I think it's a business violation of the Rules of Procedure before the replica, and you've done well. But I'll tell you that too, I'll tell my colleague twilight, so it's no wonder that putting a patch on the mouth of the opposition is only in the capacity of the parliamentary majority who wants it, who wants to prevent us from speaking clearly, unequivocally, to warn when they are not accurate, that they are insulting us today, is actively visible. If they had answered me to look into their own yard about their own judgments, then they would have said that we were calling them, that we were insulting them. But I think everyone has a chance to look at themselves and look at it. As their minister says, look in the mirror and then tell others. I believe that all of this is in order for as little of us to grumble in the Croatian Parliament, where we really have to say what is not good. And when other colleagues tell me about what I said I did, I admit it. I used to be maybe reckless, sometimes I got carried away, sometimes I was offended, and I was ready to apologize. But it's all in the heat of a political struggle that must sometimes be stronger, sometimes stronger on this stage. So remember when Mr. Stazic blocked the presidential table. It wasn't brazen, it wasn't rude, it wasn't nakaradic when he wouldn't let the chairman run the session, it was all right. When, regardless of all the events that occur in the Republic of Croatia today, we can certainly say that there is a reasonable doubt that some of the money has been recovered, but that is not legally ruled. We will certainly condemn any such phenomenon and be against it, but we also want you to look in the mirror and your finances. They'll probably take a look at those state institutions that are competent, so they'll find a way as you've funded yourself. I trust you won't react to this. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8556	Business opportunity. Next to the replica, a representative of Peja Grbin reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Djakic, in connection with Mrs Sobol's exposure. The truth can hurt but the insult can't. Some of your former party colleagues have more than clearly admitted what they have done about the financing of the political party you are a member, but I will return to your basic exposure. My colleague Djakić, you are the king of correcting incorrect allegations, and you must admit that. And why is that? Because on one specific prepared discussion you have 10 corrections of incorrect allegations. Correction of incorrect allegations that no one can answer, which no one can comment on. And it's normal for you to regret such an institute. Furthermore, you pointed to these people who would be employed in clubs and you said they would be in a privileged position compared to other employees and tenants. That's not true. Unlike other officials and tenants who are employed indefinitely, who are sure of their future, who are secure in their work and their pay, these people who will be employed in clubs consciously agree to the fact that after 4 years their work ends and that they will have to seek a new job. And don't, therefore, please say that they are privileged in relation to other officials and tenants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8558	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Mr. Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I did, maybe I'm the king of correcting an incorrect quote, and I admit it. But I certainly didn't do it for nothing, and I didn't do it for nothing, and I did it for the sake of political struggle. Your Mrs. Sobol should be the last person to talk about corruption and crime, given her husband's inadequacy. I think this way you'll certainly cause even more of my true allegations that will hurt someone. I'm aware of that. I will always confess my sins. The question is, are the others ready? About employees and tenants as well as public procurement, the question is whether public procurement is needed at all. As we hear your first vice president says don't publish public procurement, you can all get how you like it, agreed, everything is agreed. We'll get whoever else we want. It's your first vice president's statement that you support. As for employees in the Croatian Parliament, they are put on the current draft and proposal in a privileged position. It's actually inscribed. You used a law that doesn't work anymore. Here I will read Article 114 in the transitional and final provisions "in relation to civil servants ceases to be the Law on civil servants and tenants of the "National Journal", No. 27/01. and, on the basis of it, adopted implementing rules other than provisions governing their salaries which remain in force until the date of application of the special law governing salaries and other material rights of civil servants." Mr. Darling, I don't know what you wanted to say and replicate. This is what the law says, take the articles of the law out with today’s proposal for Articles 6 and 7 and you will see what this is about. You've applied something that no longer works that's out of force and you're telling me that I'm the king of correcting incorrect allegations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8560	Time. Thank you. We have an announcement of a breach of the Rules of Procedure by a representative of the Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8561	Mr President-in-Office, for the time being, still a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and in Article 214(6), the same correction is due to the fact that a respected representative has deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly when he decided to comment on the court ruling in an inadmissible and yet abolished. My dear colleague, it won't be... Comment on the specific action, the specific persons, you didn't do it. And as for the law, a respected colleague, the Rules of Procedure, is passed by a majority of the votes of all MPs in the Assembly and therefore has a certain power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8562	Thank you. We have Sandra Petrovic's next replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8563	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to tell MP Djakic that these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament do not put a patch on the mouth of definitely opposition. Here is a representative of 7 replicas has 7 times the opportunity to respond to the replica, so I see absolutely no problem or lack of democracy in the work of the Croatian Parliament, which was absolutely visible from today's debate. Another thing I'm going to look back on is that I simply have to comment on even though it comes out of the topic of this debate, but Mr. Djakic came out, too, so you'll let me. He said Minister Sinisa Hajdas Doncic said no works were done on the highway or on the fast road Virovitica-Bjelovar. I will remind Mr Djakic that it is a pre-election promise during Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. That road was promised before 2007, you opened the works on that road on several occasions, and it's absolutely amazing to me that it takes someone five or more years to set up 11km of one road. I've never heard in my life that it takes so long to make so little road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8564	We have an answer to your replica, representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my dear colleague Sandra, I have to tell you that I really have a statement in the Evening List when he put it that way, and what my colleague was saying was about the Peljeka Bridge on the percentage of construction, so I'm going to deny it right now with one blow, two things I'm going to solve not flies but things that are incorrect in your statements. Namely, the coming and beginning of the crisis and recession no longer had the money to work faster and to realize what had been drawn. And today this can be done, and that's what we've been talking about both me and you and other fellow MPs who are on these routes how to solve that sub-level highway of the Podravko-Bilogian Ipsilon. We said that if it was already renamed on the highway why not call a concessionaire's tender that would do so for 20 or 30 years, as long as it can, 25 years or 23 years from the toll collection in two years will be made and completed. I said the following, there's a Croatian defense fund where we have 7% of the shares of HT that we can sell on the market for 2 billion kuna. Why don't we be concessionaries in making that sub-level ipsilon? And that's the possibility that exists. It's taking a really long time, but one piece of paperwork wasn't done then, and now it's just the Environmental Impact Study that Mrs. Mirela hasn't signed for that part of Bjelovar towards Virovitica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8566	Thank you. We have another replica of the opening exhibition. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Djakic, I'm glad you took a walk on the construction site of this highway A 12 and noticed the intensity. And I go for a ride every time I go home, and when I see it, then I'm always happy to click on my colleague on the left hand side: finally, thank God! And it makes me happy that the works are so intense and that the funds are invested. And now imagine, put yourself in our position as dear colleagues, the work is under way, and now it should be preserved and it's an announcement. Let's say we can, I speak conditionally, I hope that reason healthy will say that there is no dispute, but it is also a matter of going on a fast road. And what that means is, that means re-change of the spatial plan, spatial documentation for two or three years, which means in nature wait for the donkeys until the grass grows. In that part of the people recognized it, there are already 3,000 signatories of the petition who want to warn this circumstance that it does not happen because we have bad experience with it. We'll, we'll do it and it'll be... Oh, my God. [[You don't understand.]] We in Podravina have a beautiful one expression that says thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8568	We've got another line further, counsellor... Yeah, I'm sorry. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8569	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's the hard part and answer all those lines, but I have to say, you're really a colleague of Milinkovic's right. I've just given myself a hard time, one day, one week I've been going through all the work even though the guards keep it there and they're actually standing there because there's no budget money or in the Croatian highways that should be financed, that don't pay for the contractors. I would not continue to owe on that problem, I just wanted to indicate how an incorrect statement by my colleagues should be corrected. Minister Dojčić, who was not probably well informed at the time he made a statement about it, but the political decision is likely not to go into further construction although there are opportunities as I said by the concessionaire, one, the other, the third, the fifth, who wins the competition. It is the best problem to solve and I will welcome all those who will represent such an interest and give in the concession that this road is made so that this vein of housekeeping can connect both Podravina and Hungary and Koprivnica and be if it can be an Istrian ipsion I don't know why it can't be a sub-level-bilogic ipilon in function and to the well-being of Croatian citizens, especially when we want to make as many jobs as possible, when we want to fill the mountainous zones that have been made, made. Then it is necessary that there is a blood vessel that in an hour or 45 minutes you can reach Virovitica or half an hour to Koprivnica. It is very important to relieve this pressure of industry on the very city of Zagreb, to open new jobs with cheap labour, cheap land in industrial areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8570	Thank you. We have the next line, Agent Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The fact is that we're away from the basic subject, but it's good to discuss life problems for citizens, I think that's justifiable. However, I would now return to the bill itself. You, a colleague, Djakic, were quoting articles 6th, 7th and 8th and then reminded me of something I did not say in my debate, and I am glad that Mr. Leko is here now. Mr. Leko, I hope you're listening to me, in the introduction you're speaking on the basis of Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 84 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the one you are referring to, says the meetings of the Croatian Parliament are public. It's not an article 84 if you're referring to this so-called. Seksov, still a broken constitution, then it's Article 85. Because if this is an article 84 that is actually correct according to the Constitutional Court's decision, then you do not have the correct article 50 of this proposal in which you wrote that in Article 227. The Rules of Procedure, which states that 2/3 of the votes of all MPs of the Assembly are made, then it is not true that the following subparagraph 6 is added: you have said new subparagraphs which regulate, among other things, that the decisions referred to in Article 126 are also taken. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is not true, because if this Article 126 is true, which speaks about the Constitutional Court, about selecting constitutional judges from this Constitution, then the text of the Constitution is not true. Therefore, in one place in the proposal for this act you put on our benches, you are talking about that Constitution of the Constitutional Court, the text, and in the second place you are talking about the Constitution of the so-called Constitution. The Shex Constitution. Then I ask the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to make the new consolidated text right as soon as possible, or it will remain this one and then call on it or it will be as it should be according to the Constitutional Court's decision. Here's a single note.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8572	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Buric, you have well concluded that there are a lot of gaps and discrepancies with constitutional provisions, but also with the law. I would still refer to the law and to filling jobs. As the Constitution states in its, the Republic of Croatia paragraph 2 of Article 55 states that every job and duty is available to everyone under the same conditions, I will read what is written in the law and how jobs are filled. The vacancy of public authorities shall be filled in through a public tender, an internal ad, promotions, transfers or schedules of a civil servant in accordance with this law. In the following text, it is all written what persons need to have, as they must meet, Article 47 of the ordinary and extraordinary procedure, the procedure for admission to the State Service can be regular and extraordinary. And all of this is written, so I would like to point out that both Articles 47 and 48 where the conditions for admission to the State Service are defined should be followed. Especially who, the Croatian Parliament and its services, in particular the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure should respect the laws that we have passed in this House and apply them to all as well as the criteria because afterwards, in the evaluation itself, how will these officials be evaluated? How will they continue to establish a permanent working relationship if they have not met these basic criteria prescribed by the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8574	Thank you. We have the next line, Agent Dan Spicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8575	Dear Mr. Chairman, here's a replica to Mr. Djakic. Well, it's already hard for me to listen, but I see that from MPs to HDZ MPs, and counterpart Djakic is now one of these, next in line, you are all the time instigating the wrong thesis, Mr. Djakic. Either you don't get what the proposal says, or you deliberately counter that the thesis that will reduce freedom of speech and that you are standing up for the right of an advocate to correct the incorrect allegations because everything is abolished, no one will be able to say anything anymore. And I'm really asking whether you're doing this on purpose or simply not understanding the spirit of change and complement? But what I will warn you, when you say you would very much like to, but it will not be possible for you under the new proposal of the Rules of Procedure, and I say that it is exactly the other way around, that when the minister comes and explains how it is and why you accumulated the gas and you won't be able to correct it, but you will be able to replicate it and you will be able to tell him through the replica everything you've already said. And I'm very interested, Mr. and colleague Djakic, when you had the opportunity as Parliamentarian all these years I believe you were truly sorry that you couldn't ask your government through the replica why she left 150 billion kunas to the central state? And that's exactly what you wanted to ask. You could have, or you wanted to, but that's the Rules of Procedure who wouldn't let you ask them why the liquidity reached $42 billion, why the debt was left in health from 5 billion kuna, why the HAC debt rose to 23 billion, only from that in 2011 increased by 5 billion kuna? Why was 10,000 jobs lost in the industry alone in 2011, and over 100,000 jobs in three years? I'm convinced that you wanted to ask all this to your government, but the Rules of Procedure simply wouldn't let you. Well, dear Mr. Djakic, now, according to this new proposal from the Rules of Procedure, you will have the opportunity to ask and answer every minister, prime minister and club president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8576	Thank you. We have an answer, Representative Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, I'm going to answer the following, I've had a chance and I've asked. I asked the former government, and I asked my government. We had a chance to see it in late '97. that GDP growth was 5.5% in 2007, but we had a chance to see that in your 150 billion debt and nebuloses that you said in this House without knowing what you're talking about. Believe me, 7 billion commitments were made in 2004 when the new government arrived. Complete with a positive balance and balance and 5.5% GDP growth. The coming of the crisis and the recession on the global level has happened. It is true that there was also marifetluka and we do not hide it and we do not put our heads in the sand, but it is not the worst thing that has happened to Croatia. 300 how many jobs were there in 2003? How many unemployed were there? 420 grand. Is this, if we want to discuss everything without a crisis, without a global recession with exports with a trade of goods that was booming and was in plus for Croatian producers, we can talk about everything. But what happens now? If there is no more robbery, no more corruption, you are unsuspecting, you are the finest you can be, your officials can get goods and services without competitions, you are all the flowers of this Croatian people. And we'll see about that, slowly, slowly. I believe I understood how to put a patch on your mouth and not talk. So every last one of your proposals will be yours. That's what the problem is. We have suggested that we tighten the use of an incorrect quote, but yours disagreed, they deafened to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8578	Time, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8579	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8580	Thank you. We have another replica on your exhibit, Agent Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8581	Mr. Vice President, I agree fully with your debate, but I believe that this item should not have been on the agenda at all today because after what is happening today, the people will say who and why pays these. More time was spent today in a debate on correcting the incorrect allegations than on increasing VAT, increasing electricity, gas, the latest announced toll increase, and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia did not choose us to remain silent but rather to talk about these gatherings. What is happening in the assembly today is certainly not the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is not also the interest of citizens to pay high severance fees, and then after 8 days, take that same worker on a contract of action. It's not the citizens' interest to make public procurement without competitions, to hire people without competitions. After this debate, people in Croatia will only hate parliamentary representatives more because what we do to each other is not good, this wants to silence the opposition, and we know what is the duty of opposition. The duty of opposition is to warn what the government is doing wrong, and one detail is that correction of the incorrect assumption to correct what is wrong. I think what's going on in the assembly today is that the Croatian people and citizens are going to have a hard time forgiving us because we're dealing with nothing, and everything bad that's going on in the country about it is everybody's silent and we don't have a chance to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8582	Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica, representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Ante, so you've really realized that it's probably not the preoccupation of Croatian citizens who elected us to the Croatian Parliament that we will be two-way communicators in this tall House. Whose will be the last, and whose will be the first? How will we warn or draw attention to what is wrong or what is not well done, or what is illegal? And I believe that there must be more important things that should be on the agenda of this Croatian Parliament, there are more important topics that we should discuss. In addition, the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the setting of the patch will not achieve much for us as an opposition either in public perception, nor in increasing the volume of baskets of Croatian citizens and families, you will not achieve much in what will hit citizens in the pocket, which is the collection of electricity, gas, VAT, stopping business activities, stopping exports, increasing the price of wood for wood producers. These are all topics that should be discussed in this House that are even so difficult to deal with. And by doing so, I don't think it's too much of an occupation for this Rules of Procedure and how we're going to communicate rather than what we're going to bring to this House as measures that will get us out of the crisis, which will enable a stable and good life for our citizens, who will do all that to not be everything on their backs, on their backs and on their pockets. These are the questions that we need to discuss here, and the Rules of Procedure and the correction of the incorrect quote are already absorbed together with the book Ante Kovacevic and remains as one of the historic institutes of this House, and when and when you stop it and in the second reading do not accept all these changes and additions that we have sought and a more rigorous relationship with it will return when and will be in office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8584	Thank you very much. We've finished replicating and correcting the replicas to your exposure, but I can conclude that you've been very active. Seven responses to replicas, seven replicas only when we talk about the Rules of Procedure, which will only be when we bring this Rules of Procedure. Next for an individual debate representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8585	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to draw attention to a few things after this truly exhausting debate in which a lot has been said. One question is that this Rules of Procedure even regulates the status of civil servants deployed in committees. Personally, I do not think that this is at all a place to regulate and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament should not include this. And it would probably be much smarter to get rid of it in another act, and not here, more so, by the law that's actually put out of force, and moreover, by saying that it's done without a previous public tender, or an ad, which certainly reflects everything that at least verbally we all advocate. The interference therefore seems to me to be with other things that regulate the functioning of the debate in the Parliament, I don't think it's good. Article 18 speaks of how the Committee on Human Rights has its President, Vice-President, etc. and representatives of religious communities. And then these two representatives of the Human Rights Association, which is all wonderful and wonderful, but they're not said to be elected anywhere. Judging by the recent recent practice, these past months they will likely choose from a decision by someone in power, from associations similar to the ruling one. Because it doesn't really define what associations are actually going to be counted inside. I must admit that the explanation in Article 24 where the youth and sport are changed into youth and sport that it is because so changed are the names of the ministries is actually exactly one of what the quack 21 said because first one changed, then changed the other. Is that more linguistically correct, why it's working hard for me to say. It's a similar story with a ministry now called the Health Ministry, not the Health Department. It's interesting, we left the Department of Justice. So that we were not consistent, and then We placed the Ministry of Justice in order that we might be like each other. But in any case, when we talk about what most of them were talking about, I would just remind myself of some of the explanations that we got, for example, in the opening statement, it was said that it would, in fact, be done especially this way of working with replicas, etc. in hopes of making it easier for the citizens to understand what they're up for. It seems to me that underestimating actually means underestimating citizens. The citizens are well-evaluating what anyone stands for, and I don't think they should be looked up and kind of figure out how they're going to recognize what they are, what we stand for. The story of democratisation of Parliament's work is, in fact, making a mockery because it is indeed reducing, as has already been said many times, the number of tools available to parliamentarians. And of course, you should say, is, I agree with those who said it wasn't that most want to deny the possibility of speech. Of course, I believe that because it is not possible to deny speaking to parliamentary deputies. Thank God we have come to this degree of democracy that it is not possible to do so anymore, but that is to say, it is clearly a restriction on the possibility of speech because it simply reduces the number of ways in which that speech can be spoken. If specific remarks are still to be made, the article 41 is precisely what I am saying because the words “will be considered” are replaced by the words“ can be considered. ” And what does that apply to? It refers to opinions, proposals and observations made by other bodies. So when you write that someone can consider it, then he does not have to do it and, of course, he will not do it most often. Thus, the possibility of the Assembly, or parliamentary representatives, is narrowed down. It has been said many times that this actually means raising the executive authority, i.e. Governments over Parliament, because the last thing will be said when the debate on certain laws is held by the proposing one. It's usually government in us. As a rule, opposition proposals are always rejected, and all proposals of the law are passed by the government. That it is not so in most of the Parliaments that we like to compare with, and we always like to mention that it is so in European countries etc. So we know that in most European countries, it is actually the parliamentary committees that are the ones who are passing bill proposals, not the government. But, of course, that's not the case with us. And it's obviously going to go on like that because I personally don't think it's good. But the fact is that this will actually prove once again that the executive power, or government over Parliament, is always going to be the representatives of the government, the government will actually be the last and not the representatives of this House, or Parliament. Of course, the abolition of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is not good because, as it has repeatedly pointed out, another possibility of doing so has been reduced and, of course, it is also that such a conjecture of the Rules of Procedure actually means its abolition, because the story of how it can actually be done differently, because it will not be written anywhere, it will not happen but will enter into this bureaucratic procedure which will take me no longer know how many days and it will be completely irrelevant what will eventually be answered. Therefore, it is quite certain that it is a reduction in the ability of parliamentary representatives to act, it is not only a reduction in the dynamics as the esteemed representative of Hrelja said in the morning, it is, in fact, the elimination of the possibility of a rapid reaction to the injury of the Rules of Procedure to put it off until indefinitely when it will become completely irrelevant and certainly not on the trail of greater democratisation of neither this Parliament nor the Croatian state. And I earnestly ask those proposings to think about everything that has been said here and not be another road that, without considering proposals, will just accept what they have come up with and not listen to what the representatives of the Croatian people in this House say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8586	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit, counsellor Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's this fellow Reiner, all of what you've stated exactly that's how it goes in favor of this House being weak towards the government, and it should be the other way around. Like I said, according to the Constitution, how to divide power into tridivisions is legislative and that's us. The next is when you talk about correcting an incorrect quote there is for and against, but what I also say here I will write to you "an agent cannot ask a word to respond to the quote from the presentation of a replica of the government's representative". That's exactly what's coming to the government. The right to a spoken word to choke in this way to the Rules of Procedure in the Croatian Parliament for me is amazing, and I see from your presentation the same colleague that we agree on it and that it is just as impossible for you. Well, by all means, we're also being violated by the rise of the representatives and the rule of the majority in reality. You shouldn't show your strength here today in this way. With this way as you yourself have said, they can vote anything they want, so they can cancel the Rules of Procedure and we'll at least think of it that way, but we won't. This is what people are looking at, and you were right here, there are a lot more powerful and painful topics that we could talk about. I just wanted to point out that one more time, and I'm saying that this breach of the Rules of Procedure remains because it is necessary and it is in this form that, as you said, 24 hours will be decided somewhere whether someone in this House has offended and deeply offended their statements without being able to react at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8588	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica by Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8589	Well, I would like to stress that the importance of parliamentary democracy is that Parliament is actually the top of everything. This country has decided on that form. Let's remember more than ten years ago we had a semi-presidential system and then there was some consensus to move on to the parliamentary system. We have moved on to this parliamentary system, however, we have witnessed that once-dancing principle is trying to limit it at least, and that is what is not good, that is what is happening with this Rules of Procedure, that is what happens every day with an enormous amount of legislation that is all being passed by emergency procedure, that is what happens to the mass of laws that are passed without public debate, important laws, which imposes the position of the Government instead of the Parliament's position being the most important because Parliament is the reflection of our constituents of all our citizens and Parliament should be the supreme body that will evaluate everything else. I'm afraid that doesn't happen. And that crawling silence of parliamentary democracy is also this unfortunately Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8590	Thank you. We have another replica of your exposure, Agent Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8591	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. So in previous discussions, and now in the debate of the esteemed colleague Reiner, it is pointed out that it is essentially negative that the correction of the incorrect quote is abolished, and I would say that the correction of the incorrect allegation is, in fact, a kind of accusation, an accusation of the one who said he was not telling the truth, that is, to be rougher to lie. In all civilized systems, this has gone almost and all legal systems are the right of those who are accused of being able to give their answer to that accusation, therefore, to defend themselves. Only here if I can pull such a parallel was it given to one who has been accused of telling an incorrect allegation that he did not tell the truth either knowingly or unconsciously that he could answer it. Now this institute that we have replicas essentially consumes the correction of an incorrect allegation and can give the grounds for a broader debate, so I don't think there are any arguments that by abolishing the correcting of an incorrect quote, the incorrect assumption will not be correct but rather is given to the one who is accused of telling the truth to give his answer to that accusation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8592	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica by Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8593	So I want to make it very clear, and we all end up knowing just that for the purposes of defending this Rules of Procedure, we pretend that we don't know, of course, that the Institute of Inaccuracy is not an accusation of someone that he lied to, it's a rare simple reaction to some false assumption that someone may be blaming from somewhere, has a false knowledge etc. In any case, it's not a claim that someone lied. So it would be funny if that were the case. But what I don't think is right, we've been building this democracy for 22 years now. It's very small. Compared to most European other countries that have their own parliaments of 100, 150, 200, we will not compare ourselves with those who are 500 years old, we do not hold to our traditions absolutely anything to any of our traditions. And I think that those countries that have been established democracy, which have been for decades and centuries now, by sticking to their positive traditions, will be valued not only by their citizens but also by other citizens. We want to change every tradition so much. Today it is the Rules of Procedure and the institution of correcting the incorrect allegations that has worked, two decades of this democracy it works, and suddenly we will change it. It's similar with holidays, let's remember what crazy times we've made with holidays that people in the end don't even know what the national holiday is in this country. Everyone else tends these dates, knows very well, for centuries that are their holiday, in this country it turns out that nobody even knows it, and now we want to change something again, etc. I also plead to retain some traditions that were not bad, which did no harm to anyone, it never happened that because of this session of the Parliament I do not know how dramaticly extends, interrupts, any incident happens, etc. And I don't know why we should end it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8594	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, MP Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8595	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that a lot has already been said about the reasons for and against the adoption of such a Rules of Procedure. I personally absolutely share the opinion of those who believe that this is a step back in democracy in the work of the Croatian Parliament, and I would especially like to stress that if it is adopted in this way in this form of opposition, it will come into a much more unfavourable position than it is today. And the responsibility of the majority in the Parliament is that they will certainly recognize the public that this is not about introducing order into the assembly, which is your argument, but is absolutely about going to the hands of the ruling, especially the Government and the Prime Minister and the ministers. So here you work the Rules of Procedure who is willing and in favor of the ruling. This is the first time since we have a democratically elected Parliament that there will be a situation that the executive power is in a dominant position compared to our elected deputies, so for the first time it will be the last to belong to the ministers or the Prime Minister. You have a responsibility for what you do, one day you'll be an opposition, and then you'll see what happens to you. When you were an opposition you used all the instruments that exist in the current Rules of Procedure, you used them very often, we did not like it as rulers at the time, but we still held it as a common procedure that characterizes the Western democracies that we belong to ourselves. But now that you're in a position to rule, then you change the rules and you go to them on your own, but your responsibility is yours. But I would like to point out something that has not been defined by this Rules of Procedure, which has become a common practice lately. It's the behavior of some presidents of the assembly session, not you, Mr. Chairman, but some of your colleagues, who persistently match the MPs coming from the opposition ranks, very cynicalally, very biased that I don't consider correct. And I believe that this Rules of Procedure should also be prescribed by the chairman because there is nothing in the current Rules of Procedure and probably some believe that this vacuum can then be used exactly the way I have spoken and I must say from the talks with a whole series of opposition MPs it is about very annoying behaviour and inappropriate comments on the account of the presentation of certain MPs. What I particularly wanted to highlight, which unfortunately was not the case today, which is a decision to abolish the National Committee for the Monitoring of Croatia's EU entry negotiations. They've finished negotiations, and I agree, it's time for the National Committee to finish its work. However, your announcements were such that, in parallel with the completion of the work of the National Committee, you will pass a law regulating relations between the Croatian Parliament and the Government on EU issues. Unfortunately, there is no law today, or after we adopt this Rules of Procedure, we will not have a body in the Assembly to monitor the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, or to monitor the activities of the Government in the EU institutions and all those in charge of the relationship between Croatia and the EU. How will the Croatian Parliament do one of its functions, which is the government's supervision, if there are no bodies involved? And now I know what you're going to say, we have a Committee on European Integration, but the Committee on European Integration has not yet taken that post. And what is particularly important is that you abolish the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations, at the head of the Committee on European Integration, you put a man who comes from the ruling majority and thus took away the right of opposition to participate actively in the completion of this process of Croatia's EU accession. I would remind you that while you were an opposition, you had a leading man and a Committee on European Integration and a leader in the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations. So dear friends of the Kukuriku Coalition here you certainly took one step backwards and took full responsibility for some of the things that may be happening, rejecting the help and participation of the opposition. I have asked myself why you are doing this, whether perhaps you should also put the debate on meeting the criteria from the Croatian public, whether or not to discuss the criticisms we receive from the European Commission and individual member states into another plan and not to make it visible to the Croatian public. Because let's not play, we got very clear pucks, we got very clear objections to meeting certain criteria of membership in supervisory committees, from the Law of Conflict of Interest, it's a particularly difficult and poor decision-making or trying to get public procurement in HEP without a public tender. So all of this is very precisely registered in the European Commission, but unfortunately we in the Croatian Parliament will not be able to discuss it as we talked about when we had the National Committee, so when we had a common opposition and government discussed some difficult issues that had to be addressed in those moments. We're in the monitoring period, it's a very sensitive period. Without a clear position of the Croatian Parliament, without a clear answer when you will pass a law on the relationship between the Government and the Croatian Parliament on European affairs you will assume, once again, full responsibility for what will happen. And the reaction of some ministers shows that they don't understand what EU logic really is, that they don't understand what the commitments we have taken and that put us at risk that some member states that, for their internal reasons, may seek hair in the egg, that you will in this way question and only membership from 1.07.2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8596	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Representative Josip Djakic first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague of Jandrokovic's. This is another one of these little things that happens in this Rules of Procedure. Namely, the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations could function for another year from the signing of the contract until Croatia's entry into the EU to know what is happening in the monitoring process, which puts it as a grudge or a warning to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that they cannot do what they want, that European gains and harmonisation of the law are one thing, and that the wishes of the Kukuriku coalition are another. It cannot go against what is negotiated and cannot change the legal rules of those that are in line with European legislation. You have well detected that this is one of the things that disappears from these Rules of Procedure, amendments and additions, so that no more opposition has insight into what is happening, what are real objections. However, it is clear that the objections were also due to the attempt to amend the Police Act, that the objections were also for the appointment of supervisory committees. It was clear that public procurement objections were also sought, so that the appointment of those in supervisory committees already sanctioned in the first degree as well as in the employment of those who were also either in the process or were already completed in the first instance. These are all the things that come in the monitoring and in the regrets and in Paul Vandoren's reports that are also made public according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I don't think it should be like that. The National Committee should work at least until Croatia enters the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8598	Thank you. We've got another replica on basic exposure, and the answer? Here you go, colleague Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8599	Thank you very much. So I will return first to the first part of the presentation where I said that MPs are being placed in an inferior position in relation to the executive power, to the ministers and the Prime Minister, this case with the National Committee and the Committee on European Integration shows that the leaders of the Committee on European Integration are also taking opposition. Second, the second committee in which the opposition had a leader is also abolished. So, seriously, that balance that existed in the previous assembly is being violated. It is clear to me that you want as much leverage as possible in the Croatian Parliament, but I think it is simply not good. What seems encouraging to me is that you now have a convincing ruling majority, but you are aware that time will change these circumstances, that your authority will also become more looser and looser, so you are probably preparing for that time. But that will not sway us, be assured that in the context of the existing Rules of Procedure and the future Rules of Procedure, we will find ways to answer you to everything you do wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8600	Thank you. Another replica of the main exhibition, representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8601	Mr Vice-President, I am very pleased that you have also mentioned this article of the 56th proposal, which has almost undetectedly passed the proposal that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure repeal the Decision establishing the National Council. This is important to mention for all of those reasons that you have mentioned, and especially to control it since it is true that the negotiations have ended, but it is also true that the accession contract remains a monitoring provision. It is therefore extremely important to maintain parliamentary oversight of the government to truly fulfil what is signed in the accession contract. And that's why I'm glad you brought that up. And something else that I have not been able to say either, which is the reaction of the President of the Croatian Parliament who is indeed a few, and I also confirm that it does not apply to you, Mr. Chairman at the moment, but they do allow themselves to comment on the presentations of MPs, which seems to me that according to the Rules of Procedure we would not have the right. But it wasn't enough, so we witnessed very angry comments if the MPs applied for a replica within the same club, or suggesting to their own MPs that they didn't show up. But what you didn't mention, and here I also didn't make it, and it's extremely important, so here's the proposer to pay attention to this whole section that regulates the vote. It is not clear how to vote in principle, who decides when to vote. There is, however, one provision, one item that says at the request of representatives of the club will be held by hand-raisers. But we've been voting manually for days on Fridays without any club representatives asking for it. It just went to a manual vote. No one explained why or how. And also to resolve the issue of presence in the assembly when MPs are in the assembly, they didn't get involved, and so it counts as if they weren't there, and it's full of MPs. That should be regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8602	Thank you very much. A note just to remind ourselves that President Šprem said when we voted manually that the technique had failed and that it was untrustworthy and that it needed to be changed. Were you in the assembly then I can't remember that. As far as I am concerned, I will also hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I agree with you that as chairman, I am also a parliamentary representative and my colleagues, but we cannot take part in the debate. It'll be my proposal to the board to regulate. We have another individual debate, MP Marin Jurjevic I'm sorry, I'm not used to this. I'm used to replicating the replicas to the top. I'm not used to you on the right. [[Intruder Jandroković: We have an answer.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8603	Thank you very much. Indeed, the Parliament's role in the conclusion of the negotiations was as great as the Parliament's role should be at this stage of monitoring. Because it is really pleasant to listen to Prime Minister Milanovic in Chicago and President Josipovic and Foreign Minister Pusic on the 20th anniversary of Croatia's entry into the UN as well as to praise the achievements of the Republic of Croatia, how we praised how we built institutions, became part of the most developed integration in the world, how we are in the best society in the world and all because we have probably done something these 21 years. I would remind you dear colleagues that in the 21st year of 17 years at the head of Croatia was the Croatian Democratic Community, so I'm surprised that with so much anger, so many accusations you go here to us or it would be better, perhaps well to agree with your leaders whether we have made such great progress or we are on the verge of a dive as some of your representatives have spoken. I think we've done a lot of good work in the last 22 years. It was also a failure, but it would be very good if we could talk about it without passion and without imposing opinions, which unfortunately through this Rules of Procedure you are trying to introduce.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8604	Thank you. We have the latest reported hearing by representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8605	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In a way, to put it this way, the dramaticness in the speech of my colleagues from HDZ is not consistent with their number here, so I especially welcome you five, five that you stayed to defend your party, although the normal thing was not attacked by us at least. Six. So in some ways here you've exhibited yourself regardless of what your argument really does not agree. You know that this is my fifth term in the Parliament, so I have been in the Parliament for a long time, and HDZ has been in power long as counterpart Jandrokovic has said for 17 years. It's a normal thing to leave traces and scars and scars of this species and that kind. The Saldos are undermining voters. They delivered you an account in this election. Your bill's been charged. That's their grade. What's left? Were we really on edge or were we or weren't we? We can run some school discussions here, but we were really in a dramatic situation and we still are and it's still pretty brave to attack this power that in four months it hasn't fixed what you've been doing in one way or another 17 years. And the citizens delivered an account in the form of their votes, their trust. So, since I'm in the fifth term, I'm not going to be here acting like one of my Dalmatians at that long time when he boasted of his courage, so the river "see the man himself sees the Turk". So I shouldn't have seen the man cha's vision of Turks. I've been here, I've personally seen what's going on. My colleague Reiner reminded me of tradition. You know the tradition of the first 10 years of HDZ rule. The current clock lasted 1 hour, 60 minutes. And I'd be there at 11 o'clock on Tuesday night, where I was standing until 6 a.m. by this table when the book came to sign up for the list that we were doing that would make it possible to ask a question. Then came the coalition government in 2000 changed it to the damages of the MPs in such a way that it allowed the current clock to be lifted, introduced in the current morning, that it could speak to 40 people, that they didn't have to stand here all night. You know, some of them slept there on the floor. Your big part doesn't know that. That's what I was doing as a parliamentary representative because I'm one of the few people who hasn't missed a single current hour without asking a question. You see how I'm saddened by what my friend Leko says. You also know the tradition that we're really changing, so we changed it in 2000, so tradition itself doesn't mean anything if it's a bad tradition. What does it mean to refer to tradition? Do you know what a tradition was? The replica didn't even exist between us. No one could answer anyone's claim either to you or to me. There was only a correction of the incorrect assumption, and then the rule of the coalition came in 2000, and also to the harm of MPs in quotes, of course, because you claim that we are constantly changing something to take away Parliament's power, so we took it away in such a way that we gave MPs the opportunity to respond to some claim that is being made here and relates to them or to their party or to some problem that they think differently. Parliament when you look at etemologically, etc., therefore really draws the root of the word to speak. That's Italianism one. You can talk parlati etc. It's said in Dalmatia it's still a parla, etc. Parla as if she were from the Parliament! The speech is our tools and weapons. And I would be the first against any way to introduce restrictions in speech. They're all over me, and here I am with no experience wider, they're spreading. Looks like some people here are okay with it so he can't take it back. Then it means full democracy to him. When I say it, you're a horse and he's a ha, ha, he's not a horse but a pig. And now he can't kill me. And that's not right, is it? And I have to let him say I'm a pig not a horse. You see, so I'm just increasing his chances of correcting my incorrect claim, because my incorrect claim can also be under the firm's correction of an incorrect assumption, I can tell a lie. And who cares if someone answers that? There are a number of mechanisms that later or how the club declares a parliamentary minority or through interruptions that have been very common here, etc. Now some here seem deaf, dumb, blind as nothing had ever happened before and look now some savages are coming to lift our rights so that a wider area of speech has come who wants to ride us by executive power. Please don't, until four months ago, the Parliament was singing here your government was shaking. Well, the normal thing is that your ministers had the last word in the presentations, that was it. So the government had that same position as it has today. I'm not gonna talk about it because I could talk about what I experienced here on my skin. I really don't have a problem with any MPs, and I think of you all as my colleagues from whom I think differently. Some of my extraordinary friends are from your ranks that are no longer in this House but we have remained friends, including family friends. Well, you can laugh. It won't be Ivo. Eva's friends left faster than the pantagonists leave a sinking ship that's not human either. You know no matter how much sin I despise as much those who smoke to him, and then they argue who will hit him in the head with a bigger stone. It's the same inhuman component that politics brings into man. And it's not the most important policy in life, you know, humanity is the most important thing. So do you have friends or don't you? [[Intruder: Time.]] I didn't spend any of this time already, did I?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8606	You're very interesting to listen to, but unfortunately time is up. I'd like to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8607	I guess it'll be a good turn, thanks to the democratic oatmeal we're introducing, so I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8608	We have three replicas on your exhibit. Representative Josip Djakic first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8609	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's the impression of this House certainly has the right to have certain changes happen, the democratisation is in this House, and with the application for the current morning or the current clock as we wish to call it. I also want to say that what we're talking about today must have been certain mistakes, failures, and removals that shouldn't have been. Correction of an incorrect quote like I said was the one that has been abused many times. It's a fact and we don't run away from it. But it's also a good instrument and a good tool to remove what you say to someone like you said he's a horse or a pig so he can take it off himself and say what he is. I could say that the robber was drinking, so so some fellow should say it wasn't. But here's the democratisation that must bring more. But I want to explain your proposal that only replicas are regulated by two-way communication there must be one dam that will allow the current government to always have the last word. And that's the point of the problem we want to talk about, and you just blacked it out and you don't want to talk about it. You add up two and two, and you'll see that it's a formula 1:3 in use just to keep me as quiet as possible, and you keep talking. About what we talked about monitoring. Well, competition, fundamental human rights, and with fundamental human rights and freedom is speech. Whether in Parliament or in public anywhere he is guaranteed to everyone by European laws and by the Croatian Constitution and we need to use him. So I believe that That you will think again about what it means to correct an incorrect allegation to remain as an institution that has been in use with you all along. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8610	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica by representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8611	My colleague Djakic is right when you say that speech is the essence of everything in Parliament, but you are wrong when you say that someone is choking on that right because someone is going to speak above you, not you. It's not about the amount of speech you're talking about. It's about what you're saying. Some should pay to speak as long as possible. I mean, I know who he'd pay to say to us as long as possible, like God. So the point is what you say when you say it. I don't see, don't call it a replica at all, call the dialogue. Dialogue is talk, people talk like that if he's not crazy, so I'm with myself, always with someone else, so it's your turn to hear what that other thought about what you said. So, this dramatization, it rides power, it strangles us, that first movie of horrors and horrors, here come vampires, suck blood, this, that. In the Rules of Procedure, he said miracles that he could speak both sides. At the lowest level of the court in some tribal community, what makes it possible for one another to do so. I'd say we're spreading those rights. Who's the last one? I'm the first, I'm the best, I'm the last. Unfortunately, in this society, people seem to like fighting over who's gonna be the last, not who's the first. That's bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8612	Thank you. We have another replica, Agent Gordan Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8613	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I was hoping that at least Marin would raise his voice against this Rules of Procedure and against this restriction, after all, the right of speech by the opposition and in some way lead to the dominant position of the executive authority towards us and listening to it I was wondering where the Splitn dispute is now, and where is now the revolutionary South American rebellion. He's gone, he's beaten the party opportunism, the communist in you beat the anarchist in you, and we all love you better as an anarchist than as a communist. So, Marine, a little more principled, you're on the instruments that were according to the current Rules of Procedure and you certainly knew how to talk to us, then representatives of the rulings and ministers, so I'm very sorry that you're defending these decisions today that you understand very well, and you know that they don't contribute to opposition MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8614	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8615	After such brilliant psychoanalysis, some doctors will imagine whether Jandrokovic will take their job. My dear Gordan, I know you don't believe what you're saying. At least you've seen the parliaments around the world, you've traveled a lot, you've been a minister, and you know well what practices are in these parliaments, you know well that this parliament of ours, the Croatian Parliament, really, by our behavior and by how we do, is not the worst, nor are we the worst advocates, as sometimes wants to create a picture. And whether it's anarchistic or communist, I could tell you that the anarchists are called liberal communists, so maybe you're confused by free communists. Some say that early Christianity was defined by communist ideas, etc. So maybe you, as a Christian, would, say, accept some ideas, but it's a weak argument that could be disproved that no freedom is limited to this, that no asphyxiation is happening, that it's simply what we've done every time we came to power, that we've just spread the area of speech, and that means freedom in this Parliament. And the relationship of the executive authority, I've had so many personal insults here, starting with your then president who you've dealt with more cruelly than I would have, so it's really all aimless. Well, I had genes, a family of cherries, and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8616	Time, colleague Jurevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8617	In order not to answer a simple question and where are the schools of Split’s smuggling, I did not get an answer. Come on, give it to me now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8618	Time. Thank you. At your exhibition we have another replica, representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wouldn't continue psychoanalysis because it's a rather long-term process and you can go in the wrong direction, that's easily possible. But I appreciate your statement that you appreciate our courage, even though we don't feel attacked... Although the gentle Cardinal Stepinac said he must never hesitate those who are destined to fight. [[You don't understand.]] We're not ready of course to fight, but this is our way of saying parliamentary fights, but you're denying us with this tool that we can fight, and I have personally testified, and I know that you've had some unpleasant experiences, you've stated, but you've used these instruments many times and you've used it many times, for sure. I certainly had a chance to see that anyway, but you might have forgotten that. Here's maybe a piece of that psychoanalysis. You also said that the voters punished us in these elections, rewarded you. Right, but you didn't say that program 21 will be program 25, you didn't say that the electricity will collect, you didn't say that the toll will grow, that the growth of unemployment and then you want to convince them in the end is good, like this Rules of Procedure, it's all good. It reminds me of that hunter you know when they catch the cat and then beat her until she admits to being a tiger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8620	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8621	Comrade Milinkovic, these measures are still mild in what condition you have left a patient named Croatian society and who must be radical in order not to at least come out of the comatose state to move slowly, and the therapy will be long and painful, not thanks to you but to those who managed these companies. You forget that, you keep talking, you didn't say that you're VAT, that you're what you are, so listen, these are the consequences of your policy, but you didn't tell the people we're going to bury the bors, the books... Wearing black bags, we'll be a miracle in courts. [[You don't understand.]] Those who lead us are all to you since I don't know what will be, some will, some won't, some won't, people who will be processed. You didn't say that, however much you didn't tell people, so that if they knew what was waiting for them, they'd make it hard days, but you said it would be nice, the flowers would blossom, wonderful. My men are finally dawning. Why, why didn't you tell your doctor the truth? You know you're no good at lying to a patient. Fortunately, the patient is alive, however hard he may be, with the right therapy, he'll come alive and run and we'll get far, but only if we have real liqueurs, and I believe they finally have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8622	Thank you. We're done with an individual discussion. On behalf of the Proposer, Vice President, Mr Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs, very briefly. I can say on behalf of the promoter that we will remain at the democratic standard that the Rules of Procedure will try to bring consensus into two readings. From this title, any debate is welcome if it wants to increase the possibility of parliamentary representatives and all others who come to Parliament to represent their interests or interests of the Government so that they can express their views and their interests to defend and represent their policy and their policies without being jumped by business tricks. From this title, I can say that, and the debate was most often about the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, we will be looking for a better term, but as far as the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, so the President, or the President, is told that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and that at the same time the President must decide whether or not it is as boring as we are now, so the one who calls for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and has not been approved by the Chairman has the right to do so, but we also refer him to the obligation to give it written instructions to the competent authority. If this is not directed to anyone except that we now have to agree on the same matter, the same subject or the same session cannot be reused. And nothing else. As for correcting an incorrect quote, the replica is wider and allows everyone to use and correct an incorrect quote. However, the correction of an incorrect quote is one-way communication and does not allow the speaker to defend his position. As 25 replicas are being threatened here, there could be 25 corrections of incorrect allegations. As far as this is concerned, not all abuses can be prevented by norm. We all know that. So the correction of an incorrect quote is one-way communication and does not allow a basic speaker to defend his position until the end. As far as she's concerned, she's inspiring, I could tell her colleague, she's an inspirational debate of her HDZ colleagues. And that's inspiring in two directions. First, as an opposition, they defend their need to have unilateral communication. We understand that. But we don't understand that they don't realize that it's the right for the other side to have an opinion on that communication. And one more thing, this debate was not only about the Rules of Procedure, God forbid that, it was being conducted and is always being held in the Parliament for its own interests and for its own performance in front of citizens, or voters. Which is also normal. But HDZ colleagues have set up, or most or some, as if they hadn't been in power for eight years, are not responsible for the situation in Croatia, so they ask for God's grace that in 4 months, we all cancel what has been imposed in Croatia. I'm sorry to have to say this as president of the Committee, but I can't keep it quiet. Calling on citizens to know who the politicians represent or represent whether it is their HDZ colleagues who transfer responsibility to citizens that they knew that Croatia would be burdened with an external debt of 50 billion kuna? That the citizens knew when they gave them the vote and the responsibility for the government that the prime minister would flee? So they did not know, so they did not trust them. That policy was not understood. And maybe you'd understand better if we had an institute of replicas and we were in some way fighting for our views, our views, our policies, so it's not one-way communication. My colleagues say that non-business matter is the regulation of working relationships. Well, I think it would really be better if we passed a special law of lex specialis on the working relations of officials, tenants or whatever they call themselves in the service of the Parliament. That might be more appropriate. But I must also say that since the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, since 2000, the provision of Article 30, Djakic, says "the clubs of MPs have the right to hire employees in the affairs of club secretary, as a rule from the Parliament's professional service. An exceptional club of representatives has the right to hire a staff member in the affairs of the club's secretaries outside the staff of the Assembly's professional service and the burden of Parliament's resources." So, that already existed, we don't change anything there. Representative clubs, co-worker Djakic, can employ one and each of the following members, I guess, of another employee's club. And in the end, they must all have the right conditions for jobs to be employed. So, we're doing nothing important here or I'm going to say this in this sense we're not changing anything, we're changing, we're proposing to replace that from these clubs that are being hired like this they're also getting a job without a public tender I can't deploy to other services in the Parliament or in the administration. I think it's fairer, more eloquent, cleaner. What else is important? The truth is, we'll find it harder to hire a worker for a certain time. But I asked my colleague Djakic to give me a lawyer on the board. Is there anything more logical than the Constitution Committee looking for a counsellor? So he told me no. There's a lot of polytheologists, a lot of musicians, a lot of philosophers, a lot of sociologists, but no lawyers. And allow it to be a committee or a main task of the Parliament is for God's sake to pass the law. And when some colleagues ask that services must be strengthened in the Assembly, I agree, it must be strengthened, that is correct, and allowed the Assembly's representatives to be able to ask in the congregation service a variety of topics and to come up with how science treats a thing. The second thing is how the politician will present it, expose it and what position he will represent. But service workers are obliged not to use their knowledge in politics, and the advocate is that as he wishes, he presents it depending on his political need. So, back to the Rules of Procedure. So, I think it's very important to seek consensus on the Rules of Procedure. If he's not there, then he's really going to be responsible for bringing or changing and the addition he thinks most of them are going to bring him. It's a rule of democracy again. But respect the good intention of looking for solutions in two readings that will allow for a cleaner and clearer representation of the position in the Croatian Parliament and the Government and representatives. In the end, I'm gonna say this. I'm not sure the Rules of Procedure can handle what the Constitution hasn't solved. The relationship between the government and the Parliament has left the Constitution to the rule of law. And this law should come to the Croatian Parliament and it is better to come and discuss it widely in public, the Croatian Parliament, in my own court, also in two readings, so that this very important, perhaps crucial law for the Croatian position in the bodies of the European Union, especially for the position of Parliament in such a situation, would ensure the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8624	Thank you. We have four corrections to an incorrect quote. The first to be corrected came from representative Josip Djakic. What is it you're correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8625	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, in at least three incorrect allegations made by my colleague vice president of the House, I will try to define at least one, which is to use tricks to prevent government representatives from responding. Representatives of the government who have proposed laws in this House have always had the possibility that when they are allowed by the chairman to respond to any corrections, whether replicas, whether any dilemmas or communication. What could not have been done could not have been represented but, therefore, the MPs had a replica, so they were able to make up for what they were using, even by hurting the Rules of Procedure. And I would not agree that it is responsibility for the state of the country as you present only on the marifettelus that have been brought in. She's part of the difficulties that have arisen. The biggest part is the global crisis, recession. But God doesn't make roses for you either. And your ladder falls more and more every day against your measures that you've brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8626	Time! We have another correction to the incorrect allegations, Agent Ana Lovrin. Here you go. What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8627	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I have to fix Mr. President of the Constitution Committee so it doesn't turn out that we're actually based on nothing and we're not discussing anything. So, incorrectly states Mr. President of the Committee may want to say that he thinks so and that, in the final proposal of these amendments, he will stand for the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. But absolutely in what he's writing now, it says that the president can give an explanation, so he doesn't have to, like, so far. It says that a representative is required to submit a written request within 24 hours. And it says that if he doesn't do that, then by the end of the session, he has no right to use that institute at all. So it's something different from what's been said, but I think the final expression is going to fix this. It's equally incorrect that we're saying that there's going to be a lot more replica now, because if there are 25 replicas that can be a 25 correction of an incorrect quote. That's not true. Correction of an incorrect quote can only be as much as you catch someone and how wrong someone has said And the replica can be infinitely many. [[Invader Batinić: Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8628	Thank you. The next one was the correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy. What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I noticed the quote by Mr. Vice President that we're defending the right to one-way communication. That's not true. We are and this debate has shown that we are ready for two-way communication, but we are defending the right to at least have those rights that you had in the past and that you used abundantly. So, and then, and now they'd deny them to us. We would also like to warn Mr. Vice President of the danger of the government being in some way controlled by this amendment to the Parliament, which is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8630	And the final correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Gyurdzica Sumrak. Here you go, pals. What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Lek who said that they had been accepted without a competition before in the old Rules of Procedure. That's incorrect, because here's my colleague, Lovrin, she checked in with the personnel service, and it's been said that no one got a job without a competition, and that's not even standing in the old office. One is for a certain time, and the other is without the competition that stands in the new Rules of Procedure. So it is incorrect that it was possible and that it was employed without competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8632	Thank you. We're done today. There will be opportunities in the second reading. We're done with today's debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when conditions are made. Thank you very much and good-bye to tomorrow. We start at 9.30 P.M. The Attorney General's Office report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-23-0.u8633	Now we're going to vote. The first item is the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate has been concluded, and I am voting on the following conclusion, in accordance with the proposals from the working bodies, divided into two points. "1. The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for a decision." Please state who is behind this conclusion by raising your hands? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes, 81 votes are given for the proposal, 35 against, no abstention, reached conclusion.
