ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2637	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we begin as we agreed yesterday with a united debate on five legislative proposals. So that's - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 36 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 29 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 32 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 28 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 34 Today it is imagined that we should discuss all these legal proposals and end the debate. Tomorrow we'll go with the final proposal of the Law on Construction and the Detour of State Authorities, and I'll call it that, and tomorrow we'll vote on all those six laws, and then on Monday we'll start discussing the budget. We'll see what the dynamics of the debate will be, but here's a proposal for work. As for the united debate, with which you have all agreed, then I suggest and I am sure you will agree that on behalf of the club you can speak because this is what the Rules of Procedure is supposed to do until 20 minutes instead of 15. I don't think there's any vote here, we shouldn't vote on it. Thank you. Then we can move on. So the proposer of all these legal proposals is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the working bodies. You've received a report from the working bodies. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Deputy Minister of Finance, mr. Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2638	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is a package of tax laws that implements the tax reform that is necessary for the launch of economic activity. In this package of tax laws, we seek to set clear and decisive steps to encourage economic operators to invest and create new jobs without which they cannot be expected to leave the crisis. Tax reform is the first pillar of the overall reform and it does not mean much to itself unless we attract and launch investments and we implement structural reforms. In short, I'm just going to list, meaning impact on both entrepreneurship and the impact on the citizens of these tax reforms. The impact on entrepreneurship - tax measures raises entrepreneurship competitiveness by direct measures by reducing gross labour costs, eliminating unnecessary additional costs through various non-taxable payments and strengthening the capital base for investment. The reduction in gross labour prices for entrepreneurs was ensured through a reduction in the general rate of contribution for compulsory health insurance from 15% to 13% where the annual effect would be 2.4 billion kuna, proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. The reduction of administrative fees for water contribution, forest contributions and monumental rent leave an additional 300, 350 million kuna for entrepreneurs. A package of these measures is in session of the government of the Republic of Croatia today. The increase in the capital base is one of the most important instruments for the promotion of investment. That measure is proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax. The set of rules above would have an effect between € 4.5 billion and €5 billion directly in the economy, i.e. the cost-competitiveness of companies in Croatia is increased and there are preconditions for the arrival of new investors. Furthermore, the Law amending and supplementing the VAT Act will facilitate and simplify the business of entrepreneurs who have been required to sign into the VAT obligor registry due to a relatively low threshold for registration in the register of VAT debtors of 85 thousand kuna. Therefore, these taxpayers will be cheaper in business because they will not be obliged to establish the obligation of VAT or to submit the prescribed forms. The threshold for registration in the VAT bond register will be 230 thousand kuna instead of the current 85 thousand kuna threshold. Furthermore, businesses will also be facilitated by those taxpayers who make traffic up to 800,000 kunas because they will be quarterly taxpayers unless they decide themselves to be monthly taxpayers. The amendments and additions to the Tax on Profits Act also introduces the obligation to pay taxes after deduction when paying dividends and the share in profits to foreign legal persons at a 12% rate. The method of taxation of foreign legal and natural persons is also governed by double taxation contracts and will therefore be paid at a lower tax rate of 0 to 12% in certain cases. If the contract provides for the payment of the tax after deduction on dividends and the share per profit per rate of more than 12%, for example. 15% will be paid at a rate of 12%. The rate of 12% was retained at the payoff of dividends and the share in profits towards off-shore zones. The Act amending and supplementing the VAT Act introduces a complete restriction on the right to deduct the pre-tax on the supply and rental of entertainment vessels, aircraft, passenger cars and other means of passenger transport including the purchase of all goods and services in relation to these goods, except for, unless it is, in the case of vessels, aircraft, passenger cars and other means of transport, exclusively intended for the performance of certain activities. The full limitation of the right to deduction of pre-taxes relating to the supply of goods and services shall be introduced for the purpose of representation. In fact, these restrictions on the right to deduct pre-taxes of the Republic of Croatia are in line with EU legislation. In short, the influence on the citizens. Tax policy makes the economy more taxed by consumption through an increase in the overall VAT rate from 23% to 25%. In particular, we note that the VAT increase does not go towards closing holes in the budget but directs it to the economy. However, this unpopular but unfortunately necessary measure will be tempered through stronger focus on the social position of citizens through several measures. First, a reduced VAT rate is introduced instead of 23% to 10% so far for edible oils and fats of plant and animal origin, baby food and processed cereal based food for infants and young children, water delivery except water if placed on the market in bottles or other packaging and on white cane and sugar. Secondly, the monthly basic personal deduction from 1800 to 2200 kuna will increase, and the personal deduction of pensioners from 3200 kuna to 3400 kuna, tax rates from 12, 25 and 40% remain unchanged and will change the tax... in the following way: the lowest rate of 12% is applied on the tax base up to the level of the single amount of the basic personal deduction, respectively, from 2200 kuna. The rate of 25% is applied to the difference of the tax base between a single and a quadruple amount of the basic personal deduction, or to the difference between 2200 and 8000 kuna. And the highest rate of 40% is applied to the tax base above the quadruple of the basic personal deduction, or above 8 thousand kuna. According to the calculation of the Tax Administration which used the databases for the whole year and the average data resulting from the real income tax system, the following calculations were obtained: Taxes that make gross wages ranging from 4000 to 8000 kuna, i.e. those who have a pension of between 5 and 7 thousand kuna with one dependent member of net wages and pensions would increase, with about 800 thousand workers and craftsmen, and about 200 thousand pensioners. While taxpayers with salaries and pensions above that amount of wages and pensions would be reduced to evenly deploying the tax burden on taxpayers according to their economic strength, which means that the higher burden will be borne by those taxpayers with a higher economic power and taxpayers with the lowest income will be protected. After a certain time, an indexation of pensions will be carried out, which will also in part mitigate stronger taxation of consumption. The impact on citizens who actually own shares will also seek to protect small shareholders, citizens who earn one share of income through income from capital to 12 thousand kuna per year. Taxes non-taxable part of up to 12,000 kuna per year can only be used in the annual tax accounting on income on the basis of the annual tax application submitted, i.e. the tax advance during the tax period would be charged by the payer to the total amount of dividend paid and the taxpayer would only, through the submission of the annual tax return, be reduced by the income of the capital on the basis of the dividend and the share in profits for the non-taxable part. The Law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act harmonises certain provisions on a pension allowance which, according to specific regulations, are particularly an integral part of the pension from 1 January 2012, and is no longer exempt from taxation. Finally, it should be noted once again that the tax reform will not increase the total tax burden, even on the contrary, it will be reduced especially for entrepreneurs and we will continue next years. By these measures, the Government of Zoran Milanovic focused on a direct battle for each existing workplace, that is, for every new job. Tax reform does not address problems or crises, however, it is the basis for increasing and attracting new investments and creating new jobs, and should be seen in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2639	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. What? I didn't see you call, please. I'm quite clear in terms. Here you go. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic on behalf of the Committee on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2640	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be brief, the Committee on Local and unite all these four debates, about the four laws we led on the Committee on Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government at its 2nd session held on 15 February 2012. The Committee on Local Self-Government, therefore, supported unanimously by the Law amending income tax, the tax on most votes, with the exception of 8 votes for and 1 vote against which it referred to the Law on Value Added Tax, but regarding all these laws, the Committee on Local Self-Government reached the following conclusion: the Committee on Local and Regional Government, expressing concern over the data showing that there will be a reduction of financial resources to units of local and regional, i.e. regional self-government requests from the Government of Croatia to systematically implement fiscal decentralisation measures, through income tax, income tax, property tax, property tax, property tax, and value added tax. So that is the conclusion that the Committee unanimously adopted and proposes to the Parliament to draw such a conclusion. So I repeat that most of the votes were passed unanimously by the Committee by these three laws, except that it passed most of the votes and adopted the law on value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2641	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2642	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government and the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 3rd session held on 15 February 2012, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. Introductory statements regarding these four laws have been heard by a representative of the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, and what is important for the highlighted and you have received materials on your bench is that the Committee on Finance and the State Budget has reached its conclusion after the debate has been held by the majority of votes 8 for and 3 against proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. That after the debate, he supported the law in question on amendments and additions to the Law on Profit Tax and by majority of votes 8 for and 3 against the proposal of the Croatian Parliament to adopt laws amending and supplementing the Law on Tax on Profit. That, after the debate was held, 8 votes for and 3 against him, he concluded that he proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax and that, most of the votes 8 for and 3 against, he concluded that he was proposing to the Croatian Assembly the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2643	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, three MPs will speak. Mr Ivo Jelusic is the first representative. Here you go. In a time of 20 minutes, all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2644	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try to share equally these 20 minutes and say something in the first few minutes about SDP's attitudes when it comes to income tax and profit tax. The budget is that we all agree here and all parliaments that the budget is the most important thing that each Parliament brings in one year and this Parliament, and when it comes to budgeting, it is necessary to do so if I can say one small minimum reform of tax laws in order to put what we want to do from tax already into this budget. One party's policy is seen through tax policy and budget. And just on the examples of these taxes, we want to show what kind of policy it is for us as SDP, whose interests we protect, whose interests we want in some way to bring to a more equal position. When I talk about it, all the political parties and all the political options here and here in the Parliament, and otherwise in the public, they are wanted to be socially sensitive, that they are social, that they are for social justice, that they are for the protection of the weaker and the poorer, and that they are for the greater burden of those who have more and the richer. That's what it looks like. Everyone's up for it. If that's true, you can see when you look at the taxes he's brought, what kind of tax regulations he's applied. I'd say it wasn't like that until now, and that's exactly what we want to change. We want through these tax laws to make it clear and loud about what our policy is, who we want to put if we can say so, in a better position than it has ever been, and that's work and those who do, those who live on their work, those who live on their salaries. And that's why we're changing the Income Tax Act, and we also want to pay as much as our salaries to those who live on their capital that live on profit. That wasn't the case until now. In addition, we will bring to the end the constitutional principle that we have built into our Constitution, which is that each contributes to its wealth in proportion to its own power, so that each tax and each other contributes in proportion to its strength, not vice versa. What measures do we want to do? First of all, through an increase in personal deduction, so one that is untaxable from a thousand 800 kuna to 2,000,200. When it comes to pensions with three thousand 200 and three thousand 400. So we're increasing the untaxable personal deduction. Furthermore, we retain the same tax rates when it comes to income tax, but we change taxes we introduce new tax classes so up to 2 thousand 200 12% tax rates, from 2200 to 8800 thousand kuna 25% tax rates and over to incomes over 8800 tax rates of 40%. What's going to happen? It will happen that those who have lower salaries pay less taxes, those who have higher salaries pay more taxes. That's our goal, and that's our policy. When we look at existing taxpayers, so about a million 645 thousand, what are new tax changes going to do? It will be done that only by changing this income tax so that different pay classes 740 thousand I round the employees of those who have below the average salary that their salaries will be increased. 450 thousand there will have about the same salary as the income tax or the application of this tax, and 450 thousand will have a lower salary because there will be higher taxes for them, so when the taxes they have in many cities are added to that, they will pay even more. So those who have more will pay more, those who have less will pay less, those who have e.g. The net salary of about 4 thousand kunas namely tax cuts will have about 80 kuna a month, which is about 2% about the VAT increase. So that's how this increase is analyzed. The third measure that we want to show our policy in terms of even burden and capital, which so far has not been burdened as much as the work has been burdened with taxing dividends in the profits of more than 12 thousand kunas. It has its own dimension not only fiscally to collect more taxes but also to have a social dimension and a dimension of justice. So, so far we've taxed labor, and capital is much less. So someone... who, based on his work, made 150 thousand kunas pay a lot more taxes than someone who made 150 thousand kunas or based capital. And it's changing, and we want to change that. Of course, there will also be a fiscal effect in terms of these changes because when we tax all the profits paid and the shares that will be taxed, there will be income in the budget of around 220 million kuna. It's not to throw, it won't save, but it's not to throw. But on the other hand, I say we consider this aspect of righteousness. So we want to show that there is no need to tax work to the limits, the limits of endurance, and the capital to protect as it has been so far. Another measure when it comes to the profit tax that we want to introduce, which is to free all those employers who want to reinvest their profits through basic capital. So investment in core capital thus reinvest, leave that money in the economic system, leave it in its companies. This is from a fiscal aspect of measures that won't even bring any positive effects to the budget, but it can only bring negative ones because they won't collect taxes on it. However, I said these taxes do not only have a fiscal dimension but also have a dimension of justice, but also a dimension aimed at stimulating economic development. So far, it's been an inappropriate situation so far that we haven't stimulated the tax that people invest funds in a company but is stimulated on the contrary to get out of the company. So when someone pays a profit tax, he puts the money in his pocket, why, when he pays the tax, he wouldn't take it and put it in his pocket. And we say no, you don't have to pay taxes, you don't have to put it in your pocket, you leave it at the firm. So we stimulate development, stimulate that the economy that is hard to stand still has more money. So through these three only measures I tried to show therefore what SDP's policy is, and it is very clear and loud, not declarative but real: evenly deploying tax burdens therefore does not make one who has so far less paid more, and one who has had more salaries less than the other, that he who has had more wages more, and one who has less income pays less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2645	Thank you. Madam representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2646	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I should say a few words in these short five minutes about the VAT Act and the Contribution Act. In fact, I'm just saying that today we're discussing a package of laws that we're actually determining the framework and structure, so the concept of the 2012 budget. They start the process of financial consolidation, they encourage the growth of the economy, so in particular the increase of its competitiveness by reducing costs and increasing investment potential, all with the ultimate goal of creating new jobs. However, in this primary effort to start an economy and to start to live on what we are creating, and not on debt, as has unfortunately been practice so far, it is also necessary to preserve the minimum standards of our citizens. That is why this whole package of laws, with basic measures to provide investment funds, also has an important social component, which is the protection of the standards of Croatian citizens, especially those of the most vulnerable groups, and these are certainly the ones with the lowest incomes, which is being talked about by counterpart Jelusic. So what's the most important thing about VAT? The VAT Act proposes to increase the basic rate from 23% to 25% by delivering for edible oils and fats of plant and animal origin, for white sugar, for children's food and processed cereal based food for infants and young children, on the delivery of water by getting your SDP amendment benches on Article 3. The law, which more precisely defines these precisely, leads in a way that makes it clear that it is the delivery of a water service of public water supply and disposal. Therefore, for all these listed products and services, VAT rates from 23 are reduced to 10%. Also from 1 January 2013, a reduced rate of 10% is proposed for food preparation and nutrition services in catering facilities, as well as the preparation and use of non-alcoholic beverages and beverages. It is also proposed to limit fully the right to deduct pre-taxes for the supply of entertainment vessels, for the purchase of aircraft, passenger cars, as well as for goods and services intended for the team. And just what's more important from the second bill, so the Law on Contributions, here is the most important thing to reduce the health insurance rate from 15% to 13%, as a direct measure to increase the competitiveness of the economy and to introduce a mandatory breakthrough of the achieved and unpaid liabilities, so to improve financial discipline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2647	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Biljana Borzana, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2648	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's the last one from this package, the Law on Amendments to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. We can say that health care in every country is an extremely important segment of functioning and that it's simply part of the functioning of a state without which you can't. He's expensive, but necessary. So health care isn't something you can say in a crisis I'm going to give up like a luxury but it's something that has to work and it has to try to be at that quality that was before the crisis came. The quality of healthcare is also a mirror of every country's progress. Look at all the hospitals in some countries, and you'll know right away what country you're in, how rich a country you're in, how organized a country you're in. We are a country that seeks with relatively small resources and small separations to have a quality and accessible health service. Two basic measures introduced by this law, one of them is that so far an individual who uses a health care service outside the place of residence and has been paid travel expenses, and has lived up to 30 km from a health institution, is now paid travel expenses if he lives more than 50 km from a health institution. It is not easy for any majority in the House to vote on any government to implement a decision that some of the rights acquired so far are reduced. However, given the current situation in which our country is located, the maneuvering space is relatively small and has to be taken somewhere simply. It lived as we know beyond our capabilities, and in every family when you live above your abilities, when you live on a loan at one point comes to the situation where you can no longer function, when you have to make some difficult decisions, and what comes behind it can also be cruel to say, sobering in any case. We know that the means of functioning of health care are partly based on wage contributions, and that workers in Croatia are relatively few, so those of whom all live have also been disrupted by the system of health care, pension education and everything else. I'll just say one example. In order for the state to function normally, the number of employees and pensioners must be approximately 3 to 1. In Croatia in '89. That ratio was 3.5 to 1. For a year after the first democratic elections, HDZ came to power, this ratio fell to 2.5 to 1, and today it is alarming 1.21 to 1. So it's almost equal to the number of people who work and those who are retired, and where there's also those children who can't stand out for health care. So there is a relatively small number of those who have to earn for everyone that health care functions normally. Also when we consider that the debt in KBC Zagreb is optimistic I would say 324 million kuna, I believe it will be more. KBC Osijek 290 million, KBC Split 166 million kuna lost. When the total debt in healthcare is over 5 billion kuna, then it is clear to all that the situation is such that some austerity measures must be imposed. The introduction of order and control of what funds are spent on the budget will certainly lead to a fairer distribution of money, but control will be able, full control and insight into business, not until new directors are settled in their positions and can be verified for example. The culinary stories that private luxury trips were paid at the expense of hospitals. But at the end of the line, it's not really for this debate, and it's the work of the BUSKOK. As far as part two of these changes are concerned, it is one measure that can be said to be a social measure. It is proposed to disbursement citizens in a way that so far can pay a maximum of 90.20% of the budget base for people who do not have supplementary health insurance, and have used some kind of health service. Now that amount will be 60.13% maximum, which would mean that when someone left the hospital paid for the treatment of 3,000 kuna, it would now be 2 thousand kuna. So we are reducing the maximum possible amount that an individual must pay and thus our government clearly orders we are ready to take part of the burden on ourselves, not just hit on the citizens' pocket when we waste money in the state budget. We're aware that 3,000 is a 30% reduction that is an extremely large amount because when someone is sick they still have to pay and then it's really fair for the state to take over at least part of the responsibility to facilitate the individual's payment. It is important to stress that this move despite the skeptics heard from the opposition on the Health Committee that the quality of the service will in no way be reduced on the contrary, our intention is only to maintain this quality of health service through a fairer redistribution of money. In the end, I can only say that the SDP club will support this Law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2649	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2650	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. I think what's most important at this stage is that the credit agencies of the Republic of Croatia decided to keep credit ratings. It doesn't matter. It's about two, three months. I want to believe that's how it's gonna stay in the future. So we'll see what happens. As far as this tax reform is concerned we are talking about VAT, we are talking about abolishing the pretax on cars, or on catering services, we are also talking about reducing the contribution for the Croatian Health Insurance Office from 15% to 13%, we are talking about raising the untaxable part of the salary from 1800 to 2200 kuna, pensions from 3260 to 3400 kuna. We're talking about taxing the pensions of the gas-bitters that were acquired abroad. So those who worked abroad. It doesn't matter what we call them. The whole reform understandably that there are positive ones, perhaps there may be some other sudden moments. Clearly this reform is also preparing the 2012 budget and it is understandable that this budget should be supported. It's before us in 2012. I personally doubt that in 2012 the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia can grow by 0.8% compared to 2011. I'd like that to happen, but I kind of doubt it. So the question is, what does this tax reform mean that it has good ones and that it has maybe some other sides? So everything relates to exactly that growth of the GDP in 2012. First of all, what I think is the point, by increasing the untaxable part of the salary and by changing these paying classes, is precisely discharging the majority in the real sector and it should be recognised. More specifically, those who, say, work when we watch the pay in construction, which they build in industry or other industrial industry. The truth is that this reform affects the state administration. How? Average salary in the real sector i.e. The industry is 4697 kuna. These people, according to the new rate calculations, should have a small, precisely small but higher salary because their tax burden will be reduced. Secondly, employees in the financial sector, and there's a salary of cca 8 thousand kuna, there's oilers, there's service some activities, there's some who work in mining, I mean the INA first and those who work in telecommunications will be further taxed. Third, in the public administration, the health care net salary is 6114 kuna, i.e. 6353 kuna, and they will go understandablely worse than now. Those in education whose salary is 5500 kuna will also find themselves in a more difficult position than they are today. Now is that a fair offer? He's going to meet everyone, he's going to the Parliament, he's going to the government, he's going to the president of the state, he's going to the former president. Someone will say in the state administration there are 228 thousand employees, but in that part of the cuts in these salaries, it is certain that the government has absolute public support. If she'd gone even more radically, I dare she'd have the support of the public. Why? Because in the last 2.5 or 3 years, the real sector has run out of 140 thousand jobs, and in the state administration, out of Parliament, because if we're nothing else every 4 years on the market, no one so far can say we haven't lost a job. So I'm saying this is just a fair offer. Secondly, I ask whether it is possible in this country to expect the growth of gross social product in 2012 of 0.8%. To be honest, I doubt it. Even in Istria, 2012 compared to 2011, it is difficult to calculate the growth of gross products for these modest 0.8% where exports last year were about 700 million US dollars higher than in the Primorje-Gorski County, which has 100,000 inhabitants more than Istria. What am I based on? Well, because the oil company will work in 2012 without any major problems, but the question is, what with 2013. On the other hand, we know that the income of such a company in 2011 was lower by 40% compared to 2010. And the profits by as much as 90%, but yet they have achieved a certain one, someone will say modest, I say for the shipbuilding industry when they achieve someone profiting from 7.3 million kuna, that's an extraordinary amount but a year before that profit was 75.4 million kuna. And the total income from 3.58 billion was reduced in Ulnik to a billion and 800. It's a great business, but I'm just telling you what the trends are like. What I'm afraid of, however, is VAT. The VAT per new will be 25%. When Germany started falling into recession in 2008, what Merkel, the Chancellor, did, she reduced the VAT by 1% and sent everyone a message that it should work, that it should be spent, in one word everything seemed to spin the economy. Secondly, what she did again in agreement with Sarkozy, she consciously favored the auto-industry with the goal of keeping that basic German branch or industry from falling and what it is doing, buying all those carats for 2500 euros, investing in that 5 billion euro industry, clearly for German cars there she was absolutely observant to the European, protectionism, etc., giving a 20% discount and the same time the Germans sell cars for 10 billion euros and retaining all workers in that vital industry. We're doing something different, we're raising that VAT by 2% points or 2 index points, and we're making sure it doesn't lead to a price bump, but in order to drop the health contribution by 2 index points, from 15% to 13% should ease that blow. I agree with monopolies, big companies, they'll all be looking forward to it, they'll all be calling the government, which will be with those small companies, the big ones will feel it in that positive sense, maybe they're expected to invest, but the question is whether whoever has two, three or five workers can feel something. And I claim that Croatia does not live on 100 of the largest companies that employ a circus of 150 thousand workers but lives on 90 thousand of those small companies, the truth is God, only 60 thousand is a company that employs about 700 thousand people. When we talk about this VAT in Austria is a general rate of 20%, on food they have 10%, in Belgium is a general rate of 21%, on food 6%, interesting to gold 1%. In the Czech Republic, 22%, for food 5%. In Italy the general rate is 20%, and these differentiated in 4 to 10. In Slovenia there is 20% but they have an 8.5% rate, in Serbia it is 18%, in Bosnia and Herzegovina 18%, etc. Now, what happens first of all for these contributions, but let me quote some data from the media. It is certain that somewhere around 370,000 people who receive salaries gross 3125 net to 2500 there have 370,000 people they will not feel anything, they will remain the same. Somewhere around 800 thousand people who work for wages speak out of a gross 4,000 that is net 3132 kuna, and all there is to 7500 kuna gross, net 5556 they will be won, so 800 thousand people will feel certain benefits. And on the other hand, 350 thousand of those or us who have over 8,000 kuna gross, means net over 5888 kuna, so we'll be at a loss. And I say it's fair. What would that look like? One who has 2814 kuna gross net 2197 should get 48 kuna more. Let's say those who have 8,000 kunas, that's net 5636 kunas will get less than 82 kunas. One who has a salary of 9200 kuna net will get less 112 kuna, those who have gross 20 thousand, means net 1200 will lose, here is that information, I don't know if it's the right 1200 kuna, as it will lose any representative, minister, prime minister, president of the government, etc., 1200 kuna. I said I pulled those data out of certain media, but I'm going to say one more time, I think it's no matter what someone thought it was a fair distribution. Now, it's all right if it triggers one major economic activity. This type of tax deductions in my court should be supported but let's not accidentally turn VAT into one tax for the poor. The truth is everyone's counting on the health tax, so they're contributing from 15 to 13% to the economy. Oh, God, even though we read on the other hand that the minister is proposing to go back to the old ones in six months, etc., but we'll see what happens here. I would also like that VAT on tourism to be 10%, although I am convinced that the textile industry, the wood VAT of 10%, is more necessary. About farming so I don't waste my breath. Why? Because the great in tourism will pick me up the Istrians would say pan, cream, someone would say kamak, but the French story about fostering consumption stands so when people aren't ready to spend on furniture, on textiles let what I know enjoy the charms of tourism. But why, when it is promised that this rate will be included in the new law, it is not already mentioned because we see that a whole set of value added taxes coming into force from 1.1.2013. But I said there's another story here. If they're going to tax, we can see that they will, so-called. Gastarbitter pensions, or what kind of pensions? There were 81 thousand 188 people working in Germany. He's turning my mother away. So those or better said "these Germans" should be exempt from taxation in Croatia because our country signed with Germany or gave Germany so-called. The right of the championship. There are no such items in other countries. We don't even know how many of these pensioners have earned a pension or part of their pensions in third countries. And we know many of Croatia have worked I don't know maybe in Bosnia maybe in Serbia, Istria in Slovenia for sure and what's with them now. When I speak now in Istria there are many who worked in Slovenia logically. There's a lot of the same logic they did in Italy. There's still and I'm most interested in that, one category of people ca 7, 8 grand that gets so-called. as we Istrians call them Italian pensions or pensions because of participation, because that was the time in the Italian military but the job experience achieved in ex Yugoslavia means Croatia and Slovenia. These were mostly regardless of what they were in the Italian army because Istra was then in Italy after the capitulation of the fighters on the NOB’s side and today they, or their widows, are getting part of that pension. The fighters receive 280 to 380 euros, widows from 140 to 180 euros. If it hadn't been for those pensions that at one point in Yugoslavia were about 30,000 from Istria, and we got somewhere around $3 billion in real terms about 3 billion by counting those one-time payments from $10,000 to $100,000, I think many would have been hungry. Now do they have to pay taxes? What is the fate of these pensions? Whether it's pensions at all or whether it's some kind of touch I don't know which we can't count, and I wish it were in that pension system. Then, third or fourthly, as regards the tax on car purchase or catering services. The budget estimates that they will be incometing about 500 million kuna on that basis. But let's think about it one more time and keep in mind that lesson from that German Chancellor, Mrs. Angela Merkle. The economy is not always possible to start with just some new taxes. It is clear that the most powerful and absolutely supportive and welcoming, should be taxed. That's where I think of those who, first and foremost, won what is said to be tens of millions of shares of social enterprises. But citizens should be forced to work, to have, to work clearly and richly, to pay taxes, because otherwise there will be no happiness. If this reform, as the first Deputy Prime Minister says, frees Mr. Cacic the announced 6 billion kunas for the economy ok, but what if it turns out that our gross social product will not grow in 2012. Then there's at least one more rebalancing coming up next year. We're talking here and about a 12% dividend on profits from a paid dividend, i.e. that the same ones who earn up to $12,000 a year will be released. Today, apart from the monopolies, no one earns a dividend in Croatia. It just doesn't stand. Yes, we mention, 4.7 billion kuna, there's THT billion 800, there's Adris, there's a part of tourism, there's a consum etc. And if we see the data then we come to the conclusion that de facto only the strongest banks in the Republic of Croatia and that Zagrebačka is making a profit before tax of 600 million kuna, PBZ billion 400, Erste 800 million kuna, and all of these others earn relatively small and whether they make any money at all. Today, when we look at the dividend tax, the total value of all shares on the Zagreb Stock Exchange is around 129 billion kuna, and in 2007, it was 353 billion kuna. 200 billion kunas more than a year ago. I said today 129 billion kunas evaporated into the sky into the air like a gas of 230 billion kuna. And I'd like someone to think one day about the tax on monopolies in the Republic of Croatia, not give the biggest companies to HANFA to monitor themselves through this state institution. So once again, I think that the narration on black is what should be affected in due course, that there is no tax avoidance. That's where he hides from the IMF 30% of GDP, and we know it, it's over 100 billion kuna. If only one small part meant 100 billion kuna, 25 billion VAT per new, to get only 50%, 30% of that money through the tax scissors would work from 7 to 10 billion kuna. For last, we will support this same set of laws. For the end, IMF grades are encouraging. These statements by credit rating agencies are encouraging, regardless of what we are on that rating of BBB minus, only someone would say to the trash, but we simply need to do everything to make sure that this does not happen and that another additional burden of interest is transferred to the state, citizens and business entities. There is so much hope that the GDP growth next year will indeed be 0.8%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2651	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2652	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So far, they've given thanks to the tax change proposal, and our job in opposition is to take off the gold they gave. Whether to remain bronze, silver or wooden medals will be seen on Monday when we discuss the budget. One of the reasons for these tax changes is certainly the fact that in Croatia the tax is paid on a voluntary basis. The tax debt and the list of taxpayers were declared the biggest state secret, but I give the information that last year's accumulated tax debts and contributions, taxes and contributions amounted to 46 billion kuna. He pays a tax which, when and how much he wants, as a tax foundation, not a tax administration other than workers and pensioners who can't cover taxes because by law, the employer takes it away from them for profit. What would be the second reason for the proposed changes? It is based on a projection that the tax administration will charge between 2.5 billion and 3 billion tax so far. And third, there's no touching the gray economy. No current draft law in this package before the budget indicates that the grey economy would be touched by 1 promil as well. The proposal to increase VAT from 23 to 25%, with a 10% rate between oil, fat, baby food, sugar and water, I would add eggs and milk powder and then have... packages, is assessed and explained as a social measure. [[You don't understand.]] Whether or not the prices of these goods on the market will fall will be seen, but never before when the VAT rate of trade has been reduced, retail sales have not benefited consumers. I saw a correction to the provisions on reduced water rates and the SDP club has already given the amendment, as well as the Croatian Labour Club. However, we propose that we continue to be social for two important reasons and introduce a reduced VAT rate for electricity for small consumers and gas for households. Why? First, this government did not extend the application of the decision nor made its new decision to subsidise certain social categories the cost of gas and electricity as it was by the end of last year, which means that these subsidies are no longer available under social criteria. So if there are no social subsidies, we suggest that a 10% VAT be introduced into both electricity and gas. Another reason, by entering the European Union, Croatia will have to introduce minimum excise duties of 1 euro per megawatt hour on electricity and 0.3 euros per 1 giga julu for gas. So, 1.7 next year because of these excise duties, there is a new increase in these energys. Now let's stop with the VAT rate. That something is wrong with the VAT projections shows the fact that VAT revenues are planned to increase 1.3 billion, only 2.5% in the budget. This is a very optimistic forecast because the duty of citizens of 128 billion kuna, announced 50 thousand fired workers, the implementation of the implementation of the government's macro-economic projection, the fall in personal consumption by 0.3%, the fall in personal consumption by 0.3 with the purchasing power of 5011 euros per capita or 3100 kuna per month, making Croatia 31st. The larger VAT will bring the same or perhaps less revenue into the budget, and that is old legality. Win. There's no progressive taxation, it stays at a unique rate. What about social justice? Is the role of tax policy and system just filling the state register or introducing social justice. Both long and long since income tax and profit and dividends will not be progressive rates, the tax system will not be socially fair in Croatia until the end. Reinvested profits by increasing core capital. What does that mean with banks, which means an increase in the underlying capital of banks? Nothing but a billion kunas of benefits the state gives to banks in Croatia. It's a gift of a billion kuna, about a year-on-year. 50% of Croatia's profits are made by banks and telephone operators. What they've invested in so far, in the release of workers, quitting and nothing else. and suspicious loans to large tycoons who mortgaged small companies, invested in something else, and today these companies are going bankrupt. Without taxing banks, without taxing financial transactions, we will not get out of the crisis or make the financial sector responsible for the crisis or make us leave the crisis. I suppose this is why this is suggested, because of the fact that the sale of 5.3 billion foreign currency records recently purchased by banks with the assistance of the Croatian National Bank. This is therefore a direct subsidy from the state to the banking and financial sectors. As for income, the increase from 1800 to 2200 as an untaxable part for us is not acceptable and we believe that it must be at least 2800 as much as gross minimum wage at this point. People, we tax minimum wages as income that is subject to tax payments. And a dividend proposed as a new tax above 12000 is once again a single 12% rate. And why not tax dividends progressively, with the same rates as income, 12, 25 and 40. Money from dividends or wages is income. If we tax salaries at three rates of 12, 25 and 40, I see no reason why such a model would not be applied to income taxation. And that's what we're going to give our amendment to. The effect of changing tax classes in income taxation will be such that 380 thousand people who earn up to 2500 kuna will profit nothing, 0 kuna, but will receive their VAT. 800 thousand who earn imagine to great wealth, which is 5564 kunas will profit between 7 and 80 kunas per month, depending on personal deductions, and 407 thousand of all who earn more than 5564 per month, so extremely rich, they will lose between 5 and 271 kuna per month. Is this a fair model if the 380 thousand poorest don't profit from the tax part and get a bigger VAT? Health insurance contributions are reduced to 13% to help the economy. But a third of the health contribution is collected on the salaries coming from the state budget and there is an effect that contribution is neutral because on the one hand it is an expense and on the other hand income. One third of the health contribution practically has no effect on the economy, gives a neutral effect. It is even weirder that provision in a law authorising the government to regulate the way in which the regulations are calculated and charged. Now that's something that's really already crossed the reasonable limits of empowering the government to regulate something by regulation. What is a well-proposed breakthrough in Article 16 around those who seek and at the same time owe to the State, but then appeal to the Ministry of Finance, please enter this general rule into the General Tax Law. Not only for contributions to the General Tax Law, so that all debtors who on the one hand demand something from the state, and on the other hand owe it to a general breakthrough and resolve it. It's not enough to have that in the contribution law alone. The general tax law then makes sense. It is said that there will be no more payouts without paid contributions. Very good. And what about paying the contributions without paying the wages? Which has already begun and started to wave. Where's the fuse that employers won't apply the new method that they'll pay the state a contribution, but they won't pay the wages? He's gone, and we've already warned him about that. As far as the pension is concerned, about 60,000 pensioners whose pension allowance has now been retired are now in tax returns, which on average reduced their pensions 6%, those over 5 thousand more and health contributions, new tax classes are still 2.5% down on average. Somewhere around 9% of pension cuts above 3400 kuna and they can hope that there may be an indexation in March, i.e. that pensions will be defrosted on announcements and defend these packages. And finally, what about local and regional self-government? The income tax is the largest income of municipalities, cities and counties in 2010 of 13.2 billion tax revenues from income tax and tax on all municipalities, cities and counties have reached 11.9 billion kuna. How much will be reduced by local self-government revenues based on changes in the increase in the non-taxable share of wages and tax-class changes. How will they react to that? It will increase the cost of kindergartens, raise municipal contributions, increase municipal household expenditure or enter long-term duties. In this, however, Croatia is not the same, unique. In March of last year, according to pay distribution data, when the average salary in Croatia amounted to 4783 kunas, as much as 77% of employees received a salary less than that. But at the same time in the City of Zagreb, the average salary was 5456 kuna and only 38% of the employees in Zagreb were paid less than the average of the state. And that's why he's got relatively high tax revenues. But in the same March 2010 in Međimurje County, the average salary was only 4093 kuna, and even 86% of employees received wages below the national average. And therefore, of course, the tax revenues of municipalities, cities and counties, the average in Croatia is 3075 kuna, in the City of Zagreb 5563 kuna, in Istria 3543 kuna, and in Međimurje 1765. Do these districts have less obligations to their citizens with so much lower income? Do they have fewer obligations in decentralisation functions for education, health, secondary and primary education, health care, social care, or preschool education? They don't. And just where there have been fewer revenues from these changes will be an even greater blow to them and remains but indeed only long-term borrowing or the transfer of that burden to the burden of citizens. So now I warn you that local and regional self-government will be forced to pour part of the loss of income on the burden of citizens. Is that for a gold, silver or bronze medal? Because every time you take someone else, they'll get someone else when you give someone else another loss. And this is not a studio proposal because the government has not given a package of laws to solve the problem of funding local self-government. And so long as that package doesn't come, so long as we don't see how we can solve it, we won't be able to support this package of laws, especially if the government doesn't accept the amendments we've given. Therefore, the non-taxable part of the salary at 2800, between the VAT on electricity and for households and gas for households, which is simply necessary if we want to meet the social criteria and without the decision to subsidise according to the social criteria for electricity and gas that was worth 31.12 last year to say that the poorest are protected. And of course this package was necessary to prepare for Monday and discuss the budget. What puzzled me when the finance ministry's representative spoke today was about the abolition of parafiscal burdens by mentioning the water contribution, the forest, and I don't know which third. It's not in this package, it might just happen. Such arguments therefore do not stand at this time. And my biggest suspicion is, however, and I'm glad that colleague Caine has shown from the ruling coalition that everything is actually based on an assessment, on an announcement, on the statements of the first Deputy Prime Minister that actually getting out of the crisis and the recovery of the economy will be done with 8 billion announced investments. And only when we see this package that was the foundation of recovery will we see if this is plan 21 or 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2653	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2654	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. These few laws above all, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax, value added tax, profit tax, contributions, compulsory health insurance should be seen as a reform and measures directly related to the Republic of Croatia's 2012 budget, and inevitably already, at the very beginning of this exhibition, I must quote the President of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, who I believe is headed to Vienna for the Operanbal which said among other things that the State Budget is a complex system consisting of 100-and thousands of components that the average human mind sometimes cannot understand. I belong here to those average human minds, and I believe that most citizens of the Republic of Croatia belong to these average human minds or brains that can also understand the intention of these tax laws but also to the 2012 budget, which, regardless of these measures, is neither real nor developmental, nor social, and at least human. The deficit for the 2012 budget, and I have to talk about the budget, because it is from these measures that comes from the budget itself that is 9.9 billion kuna. I remind only of the debate that was held for the 2011 budget that was at the time that the Social Democratic Party was most opposed to the budget and said that it was unreally planned, and I don't intend to defend the Croatian Democratic Community because, practically, we have a budget copying and a new borrowing of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely the new debt that arises also from these measures that amounts to 21 billion kuna, and so much praised rationalisation and budget savings I want to break this fama above all because we have not even started to spend and we cannot talk about savings but we can talk about planning that budget of 3.4 billion kuna. The biggest savings in this budget are just once again in Slavonia and Baranja, to reduce the incentives on agriculture of 815 or 17 million kuna, and I as a parliamentary representative coming from and today, unfortunately, the most neglected region does not care whether former Minister Cobankovic left a skeleton or three skeletons, but I am curious why he is again on Slavonia and Baranja cutting the receipts and planning a new budget. These measures planned a total tax of 3.5 billion kuna more than in 2011. And somewhere around 1.2 billion kuna, the state intends to rise from a larger VAT. The biggest puzzle of this budget but also of these measures is that these incomes especially from income tax will be almost 25% higher than in the 2011 budget when we witness that daily, and in January this is data, between 600 and 1000 people lose their jobs and stay on the street. The measures that relate to this budget definitely affect all units of local and regional self-government and I would say one new poverty of local and regional self-government and most in the next few years, and in the past in the last 8 years the most, Slavonia and Baranja. The measures that have been taken today will specifically focus on the tax on amending the Income Tax Act, assessing this increase in the non-taxable part behind which we will stop as the political party and the political option and the strongest political option in Slavonia and Baranja, because the increase from 1800 kuna to 2200 non-taxable part of income tax as well as pensions, but we believe that the Government must find an answer and how to settle those funds to local self-government units. I will say something about this later, but since it is estimated that this increase will be somewhere in the budget of around 290 million kuna, since income tax is not the income of the state budget, but the highest income of the units of local and regional self-government, we find it inadmissible that such changes are being made, and so far it is the strongest party in the Kukurik coalition of the loudst corn, which is why there is no agreement so-called. Associations or alliances of cities and municipalities headed by the Mayor of the River with Mr. Vojko Obersnel who is this time watching miracles silently. It is therefore unacceptable to adopt such amendments without the opinion of those which are mostly financed from this type of tax revenue. Given that the bill provides financial data and the financial effects of such a change, we ask that at the same time the data of the financial effect are given to almost every unit of local self-government and also to the county. Because at first sight it is clear that the amendments to the law will not have the same effect on different units that differ according to fiscal capacity. It will not significantly affect local and regional self-government such as the City of Zagreb, but will have an important impact on all municipalities and cities not only in Slavonia and Baranja, but will also have a significant impact on municipalities, cities and counties that are not in that coastal part of Croatia and who, fortunately, have the possibility of summer tourism and the arrival of foreign guests so that they can further fill their budgets. The areas from which we come or from the region of Croatia such as Slavonia and Branja have a significantly lower average salary so that by taxing higher salaries, we will certainly not compensate for this loss in the budget of the unit of local self-government. There are also smaller steps than taxing dividends and profit shares that mitigate certain losses of those measures in the state budget. And it's time to break the last name that the citizens will live better than these measures. I am aware that many citizens do not have the average salary because if the salary of a simple worker is summed up and the pay of a parliamentary representative then we get the average salary in the Republic or the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic or the president of a company, public companies, HEP, Croatia insurance, but most workers and 70% to 80% of the population of this country have a salary of 3 to 5 thousand kuna and cannot survive normally as a man for one month. It's the same case with the pensioners. I hope that citizens and that someone more detailed to the citizens how much the pay gap in this new tax system and the new increase in the non-taxable part is going to be higher, on their gross salary of three thousand kunas will be paid more by 20.34 kuna. At the gross salary of 5 thousand kuna or net salary, which is with that personal coefficient of 1, will be paid 3 thousand 627 kuna or 74 kuna net, and 74 kuna more. For a salary of 7 thousand kuna or somewhere around 5 thousand kuna net, they will receive 122 kuna net income of a higher salary. And here we are somewhere in Croatian reality. The biggest profit this law will get those who have a gross salary of about 60 thousand kunas they will even get somewhere around 853 kunas higher, and those who have a gross salary of 20 thousand kuna will get 133 kunas more. If, therefore, these normal salaries of workers, peasants and pensions turned this profit so generously given to us by these measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia would come up with several liters of milk and a few kilos of bread. Not the white one but the mixed one or the half-white one that's cheaper. The government has no answer at this time because today's meeting of the Government does not show an answer to the basic issue relating to the even development of Croatia, because in any case, these are not Regional Development Funds and they are not the Ministry of Regional Development, because in this budget almost 90% of these funds are commitments from previous years. As the story is pulled all the time that changes to the Income Tax Act, and it is most important here, most importantly, because it refers to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia going towards a smaller burden on the population with smaller incomes on those who earn more, here in this table is visible that those who earn even more in their incomes, unlike those who get only crumbs and who move from 20 to 100 kuna. If, therefore, one of these ordinary citizens of this troubled country earns another income on another basis, the tax on labour contracts, on agriculture, the supervisory boards and other incomes will be taxed at that second rate of 25% and will be his final account. Such provisions do not respect the principle of taxation justice because all income of any individual should be determined according to the famous OIB which is very rarely used today, as once was rarely used by JMBG but without which it cannot be used regardless of the number of IDs and as such the principle of taxation should be respected when all incomes have been collected in the annual tax application and thus the tax has been cut. This model gave citizens the right and opportunity to pay back taxes, and thus they could if the tax was overpaid and they could return some of that tax. It is obvious, then, that the principle of equality in taxation is not met. And our proposal is that the amendments to the law determine the mandatory submission of annual tax returns where all profits will be summed up and thus taxed fairly or that other income is taxed at a higher rate or that part of the tax paid is returned to those who overpaid it. Finally, the tax system is a very complex system and should not in any way be subject to bids and unrealistic promises by politicians and no such measures should be taken overnight without quality analyses in which all interested matters should be included in any case. This is how we spin in a vicious circle. Someone before me said that the increase in consumption and the increase in production that was visible in some European Union countries, especially in Germany, happened by not increasing the untaxable part of the salary but by reducing exactly the biggest income of all state budgets, which is value added tax. The value added tax itself, the law passed in June 1995, was to be applied from 1.1.'97. but it was delayed and began to be administered from 1.1.1998 at that unique rate of 22%. In many election cycles, there were promises of a reduction in VAT, that it would decrease, that it would be introduced for certain categories but that no government had reduced the VAT but had further increased it by its measures. Today, we are in the European Union another country with VAT altitude, above us is only Hungary which has passed the transition and the road to the European Union in a way that has sold out almost all its assets, and we are on a good track to fill the state budget. I appeal that we do not repeat the mistakes of the former government because in this way we cannot create a quality budget, but also these measures cannot start the economy and increase the number of jobs because it is that we have and relieve employers which is extremely good and we will support it through reduction of contributions, but on the other hand, by just increasing VAT we are affecting that very consumption and everything that is related to consumption, but also production is reducing. And what I have to say and that, unfortunately, is running out of time, today's bill of law that plans to send and I believe that it will send the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Parliament, and it is about amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, representing Mr. Minister spilling from hollow to empty. Given that income tax is almost 100%, 52% of that income tax went towards units of local self-government, cities and municipalities, 33% were the share of the state for decentralised functions and to help balance, and the share of the county was 15%. The generous gift offered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to raise income taxes to cities and municipalities 1.5%, the county is truly a spillout from hollow to empty because all data also speak from the last increase in the non-taxable part that I agree must be introduced in order to make life easier for citizens, but on the other hand, compensation for local self-government must be made in one completely different way. What the HDSSB Club, and I end up with this sentence, will today be referred to in the procedure is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government in such a way that these income incomes that were so far in force, so what was going towards cities, county and share of the state for decentralised functions remain the same. And I urge you to start the fiscal decentralisation process according to this HDSSB bill in a way that you can also touch the profit tax as we suggest, 50% of that tax to stay with the state, where it arises, and 25%
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2655	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2656	It's just a sentence. 25% to go to local and 25% to regional self-government, to dare propose and distribute value added tax because it's fiscal decentralisation, it's not this spilling of hollow and eye-smoothing in a way that 92% of that tax...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2657	Hey, buddy, time. You'll get a chance when that law comes into practice. I'm begging you to finish up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2658	Here I go. 92% of that income to remain as state income, 4% to go to cities and municipalities, and 4% to go to regional self-government or county. In this way, Croatia can start an economy, it can be decentralised, not further centralised, such as the proposal for these laws and these mini tax reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2659	Thank you. We have a correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect allegation of Mr Vinkovic's esteemed representative who said "we as the strongest political option in Slavonia" while referring to the HDSSB and I would also like to remind him of the results of the recently held parliamentary elections and those before. The HDSSB is not the strongest political option in Slavonia and Baranja, and this is best confirmed by the election results and by the number of mandates. As far as I know, number six is no bigger than number ten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2661	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2662	Mr. Ivić injured Articles 209 and 214 since this is the time he talks about when HDZ was the strongest political option now very far past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2663	Thank you. I wouldn't want to comment on this. Next to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Mrs. Višnja Fortuna and half so, and Mr. Zeljko Shemper. Here's who's gonna go first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2664	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. According to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, the proposed increased VAT will certainly be among the unemployed and those who work, and for months they do not receive the most pay hit by pensioners because today every other pensioner receives a pension of up to 2000 kuna. They spend their peace by primarily paying for directors, electricity, gas, heating and other utility, and by that they are known as the best and the fastest payers. Given the recent years and the health impairment, a good part of the pension is spent on medicines. Unfortunately, food is what's left of your pension. Although they have always been difficult to bring an end to the end, the pensioners are still aware of these times of crisis and have always made a great contribution to the country they have been building for generations. We want to believe that this VAT increase will also be an aid in resuscitating the country's poor condition. We also hope that traders will not use the VAT increase for their excessive price increases. They must decide between increasing prices, which means falling sales or reducing their earnings in that price. Optimistic option to increase traffic at the same or only 2% higher market price which becomes a challenge for the traders themselves. On the other hand, it is favourable for traders to understand the lack of a pensioner and to carry out action sales once a week, and it would be good in the future to do so more frequently through agreement with pensioners. As for lower VAT rates for children’s food, it will certainly be useful to make young families happy, but unfortunately there is no overpriced child’s clothes and shoes involved, which would be a significant incentive to increase the birth rate. According to the latest data from the age of the population, Croatia is among the 10 oldest countries in the world. Unfortunately, we pensioners, honoring exceptions, can no longer make a significant contribution to the demographic restoration of Croatia. The aim of the proposed amendments to the Tax on Profits Act is to encourage investment, which would lead to an increase in employment and economic growth, as well as the main condition of our better pensions. A provision on taxation of dividends and the share of profits paid in foreign companies will be paid at lower rates or will be exempt from tax. These EU companies will not pay this dividend tax because they cannot be double taxed while Croatian companies will bear the burden. Of course it does not contribute to the competitiveness of Croatian companies on the EU's big market. A reduction in the tax base is also proposed when the profit achieved is used to increase the underlying capital. In this case, the Tax Administration shall be provided with evidence from the taxpayer that it has made an increase in the underlying capital. There is a risk of non-execution of proper control as we have witnessed so far for years of unpaid contributions to pension insurance. If the IRS will control whether someone has increased the underlying capital or had the objective of tax evasion as it has controlled the payment of pension contributions, then the state will have little use for that. As regards the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act, the assessment of the effects of the personal deduction of pensioners from 3200 to 3400 kuna, i.e. reduced tax revenue and, on the other hand, the increased tax revenue due to the entry of the pension allowance is disproportionate. By adding an allowance to the pension, one part of the pensioners with an increased tax amount became a payer of 3% of the health contribution and even an increased premium of supplementary health insurance, which ultimately means a reduction of their pension and up to 300 kuna. As a result, we have also proposed to increase the personal deduction from 3200 to 3600 because this would be optimal and at the level of compensation, and analoguely to increase personal pay deductions. Here's the biggest problem, that 3 percent of the health contribution we're hoping won't be for another long time. The foothold for that hope is a promise from Plan 21, and the fact that these pensioners pay triple contributions for their health. First during the working century, they are now paying 3% of the contributions as well as additional health insurance. For this reason, and we believe that this problem can and should be solved because employers have also been reduced from a health contribution rate of 15% to 13%. As far as taxation of pensions made abroad is concerned. It's important to handle it the right way. The agreement between Croatia and other countries. They solve double taxation as well as the possibility that taxes are not paid anywhere. In Croatia, we pensioners feel that this can be resolved by an annual tax application because the proposal that some media have passed on to pensioners themselves is difficult to take into account. But not to be afraid of ino pensioners taxing their ino pensions is not realistically expected within a short period of time because solutions are not very simple. For information from colleagues Kajin and the rest of you, there are about 140 thousand pensioners in the Republic of Croatia according to international contracts whose average Croatian pension is 709 kuna. Finally, in the belief that these amendments and additions to these laws with an incentive for investment, growth of the economy and employment will contribute both to the stability and sustainability of the pension system, the Croatian Party of Retired Representatives Club will support these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2665	Thank you. Here's the second part of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2666	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The proposed amendments to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act point out that it places a special emphasis on the most sensitive part of the population, so we can also evaluate it as socially sensitive. As regards the proposed amendments to the law, we point out in particular that the maximum amount of participation of the insured person in health care costs is now set at the level of 2 thousand kuna, i.e. 60.13% of the budget base, and not 3 thousand kuna as it has been so far, which is actually a significant material discharge of the particularly socially sensitive citizens. The proposal is also for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to be outside the Treasury budget, starting on 1 January 2013. We are aware here of the fact that not all assumptions for the extraction of HZZO from the Treasury are still met but we are confident that all necessary conditions will be created during this year so that HZZO can operate from its own account on its own. This will ensure the economicisation and consolidation of the health system with a better, better and more securely effective exercise of the rights of all insured users. In relation to the right to compensation for the costs of transportation of the insured person or change of mileage, we are aware that it had to be proposed this way in relation to this difficult current financial and economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, but here we point out that it is good that further certain categories of insured persons retain the right to compensation for transport costs regardless of the distance and I will count them. These are insured persons up to 18 years of life, then insured persons referred to treatment abroad, according to the general act of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, then the insured person organ, tissue or cell donor, the insured person who uses haemodialysis as a chronic kidney patient, the insured person who uses healthcare for recognised work injuries or professional illness. In particular, we would like to note here that in this complex economic and financial situation, we view the positive existing detention of the rights of the stated categories of our citizens, and finally we note that the proposed amendments to the Law take care of the most vulnerable groups of laws and the Club of HSU will support this amendment to the Law. Furthermore, the objective of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Contributions, we believe that it will increase economic recovery and the development of entrepreneurship further improve the collection of contributions, in such a way that the proposed law places an emphasis on reducing the overall health insurance contribution rate from 15% to 13%, would necessarily lead to a reduction in labour price, economic activity recovery and faster investment growth. The lower labour price should increase market competitiveness, which is positive for employers, for the economy, and ultimately for higher investment for employment growth. As a measure to improve the collection of contributions, a mandatory commitment is introduced to re-demand the outstanding liabilities of the contribution by the debtor's claim on the basis of contractual relations with the Croatian Health Insurance Office. It is further ensured that salaries can no longer be paid without the payment of contributions to health and pension insurance, so the aim is to oblige employers to pay liabilities to state funds, which is ultimately favourable for the employees themselves. In fact, a large number of pensioners have earned the right to an extremely low amount of pension, which is the further result of and non-payments of contributions resulting in fewer pensions. We must not ignore the fact that a large share of the number of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia barely meets the basic needs of life and are rarely forced to ask for additional assistance through the welfare system. We stress, therefore, that these amendments to the Law will solve the problem of non-payment of contributions, i.e. ensuring payment of the same funds and providing better records of paid contributions, of course, on the assumption that strict supervision of the prescribed ones is ensured. The HSU Club will also support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2667	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations by representative Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2668	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The correction is to the first part of the exhibition of the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club where the gentleman who has expressed hope that traders, not to raise prices, hopes. However, I must inform you and tell you that you look only specifically at other prices mainly of those products that will be taxed with 10%, so for example the price of oil has jumped in a few days from 11 to 14, 15 kuna. So, exactly what was announced to be 10% tax, these items jumped with prices, so your hope doesn't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2669	Thank you. Further for discussion on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Ms. Martina Dalic and representative Mr. Ivan Šuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues. So on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, looking at and studying these laws, we are starting from the fact that the way we see the priority of economic policy is to reduce deficits and economic growth. Looking at this package of these tax laws, it's left behind and there's a lot of doubt whether they're in line with those two priorities. On the one hand, through these tax laws something is given and something is taken, the budget essentially runs out of income, and the overall effect of the package is pro-recessional. Why do we think the overall impact of this tax package is pro-recessional because it needs to be viewed as a whole, since these taxes affect the single body of the Croatian economy. Because we think and hold that the impact of this package is pro-recessional because, in a certain way, it is a hindrance to the short-term and long-term effects that these tax changes will cause or which could cause, which is essentially a threat to the achievement of this first priority, the reduction of deficits and economic growth. Why? Well, first because personal consumption accounts for just over 60% of gross social product, an increase in VAT by 2% decreases the available income and unequivocally, undeniably, whatever you think or want to think will contribute to that part of GDP, which is the largest and which at this crisis is the fastest one that can contribute to the recovery of GDP. and during last year we finally began to see positive trends and shifts in personal consumption. That's going to go away now. And here we should also know and accept. Personal consumption isn't something harmful that's wrong, something that's not good. This is simply the biggest part of GDP in economic terms, and if we look at it this negatively, we create a very strong tendency for GDP to fall. On the other hand, it's okay. Part of this will be annulled by changes in income tax. Not enough, because even today, part of the population is not covered by tax scissors. The effects of income tax are simple, brought out by many colleagues here. From income tax, he pays 5 thousand kunas some plus 50 to 60 kuna, from the increase in VAT, the increase in the expenditure of the tax expenditure of around 90 to 95 kuna. So tax costs are greater than the benefit of income tax and it will not be able to reduce the negative effects of value added tax on GDP reduction. Therefore, something else should increase should be improved. Here, such a measure is given to lower health insurance contributions. However, the economic political issue at this point is whether the positive effects of reducing the contribution will be fast enough in the form of new jobs to undo the previous negative effects of value added tax. Healthyness should not be a great economist says it takes time, and it is also very attractive to pass on a little to a greater profit at least in the short term. And that's why I said at the beginning this tax reform a little bit of a mustache of short-term and possible structural long-term effects, and that's why it looks pro-recessional. A quick question, simple. How many banks are going to lower interest rates because of the reduced contribution to health insurance? We'll see. Calculation is quite simple how much it saves them. And will there be a reduction in interest rates? We'll see. What is important is that this is how the revenue capacity of the budget is weakened, that it is done prematurely, that the strength and security of the deficit reduction is questionable and that, ultimately, the reduction of the risk premium and interest rates of which would benefit the entire economy. And finally, the dividend tax. In a country that constantly swears to strengthen entrepreneurship, the entrepreneur is introduced a dividend tax. The dividend is a contribution to capital investment in a risky investment project. Those who do nothing, those who keep their capital in financial form in the bank on it get interest and there is no tax on it. Those exposed to the entrepreneurial risk of the contribution they make shall be subject to dividend tax. The message is very clear. But that dividend tax is still only a dividend tax to domestic entrepreneurs. Because they said others, big entrepreneurs won't pay for it. The deal is to avoid double taxation with Austria, zero rate. There's a domicile of all our big banks except one. Hungary 5%, Germany 5%. When Croatian Telecom pays dividends to Germany's telecom tax to pay on that dividend, it will be 5% and only in the first year. After entering the EU, of course, this is not possible but remains as a tax for Croatian entrepreneurs who should and should strengthen and strengthen Croatia's economy, thus declaring them to some people who put up with something in their pocket. Maybe someone's paying the dividend to invest in another branch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2671	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It's very interesting today in this High House there's no harrass, there's no harrass and there's a double harrass. He's gone, gone, very interesting. But look at the basic question that is being asked here today what the writer meant. I call on all entrepreneurs to make a monthly balance on the basis of these tax laws and then see what will be the final fiscal effect. Because claiming someone won't raise the price because that's what he said is simply false. And now I'm going to say why. A stronger trade chain in Croatia has traffic of around 2 billion kuna and it works with some 600, 700 employees. The calculation... the rate when it counts on reverse base 18 and something else, so on those two billion he's paying about 360 million VAT. And the new one should pay about 400 million, so that's 40 million difference. If you have 500 employees they don't have a safe pay of 5 thousand kuna gross, that's 100 kuna a month or a thousand 200 kuna a year and times 500, how much is that to you? Sixty grand. So 60 grand gets with a health contribution base, and has to pay 20 million kuna more value added tax. Can all entrepreneurs handle it? Because we can't talk one day about the liquidity problem in Croatia, and the next day we'll talk about how these entrepreneurs have the power to cover it. So, the first time a monthly value-added tax is made and the first time a salary check is made after the adoption of these laws, then you'll see what the final effect is. Because look when you say that 2 billion 400 frees entrepreneurs how much less will be paid for a health contribution, then it's certainly normal and... to think that it's big money that's left to the economy. However, these 2 billion and 400 are divided into 100 and some more thousands of entrepreneurs who pay health contributions, and then it turns out very little in the entrepreneur. And the real question arises, was it more logical that the revenue side was regulated in the way you started and that with certain subsidies or incentives through the ministry these 2 billion 400 are directed towards certain economic facilities and the economic effect would certainly be far greater. Two purely rhetorical and slightly political issues since it was announced. What about VAT on paid realisation and VAT collection within 60 days. It was just an announcement and I just can't afford not to ask those two questions. Income tax. Who even benefits from these income tax changes? First, you're the 3600 that were paid 12% down to 2200 kuna. At this point, more than 400,000 employees in Croatia are not at all in tax returns, and therefore this change from income tax will only cause a lot of confusion, the cost of companies will have to change the information programmes for the account of salaries. Unfortunately, no one will feel it. But there is another danger, and these are local self-government units. Why, because this change in income tax treats certain income differently. The lower ones need to get a little bit more, so the income tax will be reduced, and those with higher salaries need to get less because that tax amount dropped by 25% from 10800 to 8800. And one thing will happen, that those poorest municipalities, the poorest cities that have and so little income tax revenues will have even less income because it is unfortunately those people with small salaries who will have this small effect of income tax, while the City of Zagreb and some others who have good budgets, it is Rijeka, Velika Gorica, Samobor and all of them here in the north, they will have increased revenues. Why, because one part of their residents working in these financial institutions and oil companies based in Zagreb will have large salaries where the tax will be increased. And when it comes to amending the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, then this must be something to bear in mind because it will simply be a different influence and you can look at it according to those statistics on the tax administration what level of pay is in certain areas. It's very easy to get that information. For the contributions I've already said, it'll be very interesting. All those entrepreneurs say which... When they make their first balance sheet. [[You don't understand.]] However, what is definitely true and definitely the fact that this reduction in contributions has the highest benefit of the state budget because simply without great trouble the spending side has been reduced by 400 million kuna. 350, 400 million kuna accounts for the contribution of employees whose salary is paid out of the state budget. But there's something else. We take 2 billion and 400 from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and Health without the result of the reduction and 2 billion from 400 structural reforms. And so one at this time institution or one, it's a very important part for Croatian citizens, and that's health care we're a little bit decapitated. Because this is how they got over 3 billion kuna from the state budget, this is how we cut their income by 2400, so when that article is applied in 64, they're going to need another 4.5 billion kuna, and without that being the result of structural change. And that's maybe what's the biggest problem and this budget, and I'll talk about it when the budget comes and what's the problem with these tax reforms. These tax reforms were made simply to cloud all those watching. On the one hand, we say when we're freed by entrepreneurs, on the other hand he says we've raised VAT but no one's going to raise prices, on the third hand says we've cut income taxes and what do you have in the end? We gave it to everyone, and we didn't take it from anyone. The perpetum of the mobile isn't invented in the technique, and for God's sake, not even in taxes, it's never been or will ever be. Therefore, this shows the slightest lack of these tax divisions. If this has already been the case, this should be considered if the problem of deficits and income sides is to solve it in one different way and another, in such comprehensive tax changes, changes are not going at all without a public debate, without a debate with all those who are being tangled because you can be sure that Croatian citizens who have received below 4500 kuna with an increase of 50,60 kuna will not be satisfied with them at all, nor will that mean anything to them in life. But I'm saying, this morning I smiled sweetly reading a phonogram of debate on value added tax from 8 months 2009 because it's very interesting to see how colleagues discuss the same subject differently. And that's why I started with that story about the hack, there's this hot story where there's a missing man, and I'd say where the hack suddenly went, and it's a shame that the gentlemen of the ruling Kukuriku coalition didn't take advantage of the positive climate and did what you were supposed to do, and this is how you showed that you simply didn't have the courage and that you're clouding the eyes of the Croatian people again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2672	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Dinko Buric's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Shucker's. You just told me where the man went, whether you wanted to smile or cry, I could either smile or cry when you said that the savings on the cut would be 60 grand, 500 times 1200 is not 60, but 600 thousand kuna. But then it made me think now I realize how the money from state companies disappeared. One zero more or less clearly means nothing to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2674	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2675	I thought my colleague Buric would stop with this primitive thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2676	What article, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2677	And I think you, as chairman, were obliged to warn him of the first thing that you didn't fix anything. And I think fellow Buric if we're going to start with this kind of debate you always have a feedback ball, then you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2678	I would like to ask the future breach of the Rules of Procedure to announce what was injured, which article. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2679	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure have been injured by many articles, and above all by the article that regulates the insult of MPs. At least you have the right to speak to me about primitiveism. I think of myself as thinking, the public thinks of us all, and what they think of you said December 4th. I corrected your incorrect quote when you said it was 1200 times 500 60 grand, I say it's 600 grand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2680	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, representative of Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2681	I'd like to correct my esteemed colleague Shucker, but speaking of the beginning of a local self-government poverty, I just want to correct that poverty has begun so-called. "fiscal decentralisation", i.e. by centralising profit tax, and so far all units of local self-government have been reduced revenues by nearly 3 billion kuna, starting with the introduction of that first fiscal decentralisation. As far as "haracha" is concerned, if that 1% was a hack, then 2% is a super hack.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2682	Thank you. Further to the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2683	Dear Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So we have a package of mini-reforms and profit tax laws, income tax, value added tax, the law on contributions. And it is quite clear and obvious that it is part of the coalition government's reform policy that leads to real policy and real economy, that is, real economy policy. What is the real economy of the government? It is based on expectations and needs for reforms whose key objective is the competitiveness of the economy, the growth of the economy, the reduction of the cost of labour costs of the economy. The Croatian People's Party has in its fundamental position competitiveness, growth in the economy and employment, and that is what is built into this coalition government and what is embedded in politics, and whose policy is also part of these reform laws. Most citizens in the Republic of Croatia are clear that exit from the crisis is the only possible option with reforms to ensure the development of work. It can't go declarative, it can't go to beautiful stories, it can't go to pulsism, it can only go through work, determination, someone tells courage. No, this is about determination and knowledge, and it contains courage. And in any case, all these laws are comprehensive when it comes to reducing budget deficits and when it comes to reducing and rationalising costs in public administration and when it comes to efficiency and rationalisation in the work of public companies, including the efficiency that we expect in carrying out capital investments. So, all of these laws are not as comprehensive as a package, as certain measures, they are part of a government reform policy, the reform policy that we will have here in front of the House of Commons through new measures to abolish, or reduce parafiscal burdens on the economy. When it comes to VAT, he's kind of the most impressive in general in the debate. We at the HNS Club clearly hold that it was not as usual when raising VAT to fill the state budget, to cover the deficit, etc., that the government would essentially cover the part of the costs that could not appease the quality and stimulation of the economy. It is clear here that VAT is raised only in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, reduce labour costs and eliminate unnecessary costs through non-taxable duties. Even part of the VAT is reduced to 10%, and for those social categories for pensioners, for people in retirement, workers who have lower incomes are assured that there is an increase in their net salaries in order to compensate for the part that could be lost by a possible increase in prices. Today's situation requires both decisive and swift government decisions to immediately create conditions for the inflow of private investment capital into economic development. In addition to the expected capital investments of the public sector announced, it is extremely important and inescapable for economic growth and employment to enable private investors to be disbursed for investment and investment. This package of laws as part of the reform measures is part of this decommissioning policy, development policy and competitiveness. That's why we support him at the HNS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2684	Thank you very much. He applied on behalf, and a pardoned correction of the alleged incorrect, Mr. Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2685	A respected colleague said raising VAT by 2% from 23 to 25 is aimed at restoring the economy and raising citizens' standards. This is a complete lie because no raise in VAT can function as a recovery of the economy or as an increase in citizens' standards. There was also only an example of Germany that reduced VAT and set off exactly the wheel of the economy, and one illogical example for which I ask the government to correct it, and they are closely bound, you have this reduction, i.e. the reduction of the water supply VAT, so for water consumption to 10%, and at the same time, since the same companies are working there, the same practical purpose for the citizens is 25%. So when laws are written and citizens want to be helped to think a little bit about normal life.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2686	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr Linic, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2687	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let us try to assess the current situation in the economy and on the basis of this assessment at the beginning of the financial year whether we want to change the situation by some measures, changes, regulations, or evaluate that we are simply waiting for the economy to change its situation. Since 2008, we have been in a difficult crisis that has not been recognized at all at first, and then we witness a strong economic downturn and what is the most downfall of the number of employees, with the greatest consequences of citizens' poverty, to even the misery of citizens. Let us try to get into an analysis which is particularly due to economic activity or economic downturn or gross social decline in the Republic of Croatia. Yes, one part and consumption, but that consumption ranged from 0, -1, -2% of GDP, which is particularly tragic in 2009. - It's a 7% drop in economic investment. 2010. 11%, 2011. 7%, we've basically stopped development, and that's because there's a huge number, and I'm not going to talk about the data numbers somewhere around 30,000 in the public sector less employees. Therefore, whether the problem of Croatia is just consumption or investment consumption and the conclusion is that the biggest problem in Croatia is investment consumption and that if we want to change something and solve it, we have to do it in a way to reverse the trend in investment consumption, because it alone will mean more employees, bringing people back to economic activity and then, through its salary, a slightly higher standard of living because you earn your own expenditure. They also gave us one-off studies, we formed a mass of bodies in Croatia that talk about what to do to help the economy, which direction to turn, and even if I am not wrong for 10 years, the Croatian Competitiveness Council, which has been writing for years what problems are in the Republic of Croatia, is a fundamental problem in an uncompetitive economy. What are the reasons for this uncompetitive economy, the overpriced labour, the excessive parafiscal burdens, therefore, the burdens of the economy make us uncompetitive. That's why we have weak exports, that's what's the worst, weak competitiveness on the market. We have clear messages, not employers, councils where they sit and trade unions, where they sit and employers, but let them sit and scientists that are the composition of this one Council that works according to certain methodologies, their goal is the battle to increase the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia. The truth in the last year of objections to Croatia's incompetence is also from the unions. And we have a particular warning we have too much labour price, but not too much labour price because we have big salaries, personal receipts, but because we have too much burden, the pension system is hard to touch. We created an enormous number of pensioners aged 51 years, and otherwise our entry from 65, million and 100, which is impossible to pay out of the pension fund that enormous burden of generation solidarity, at the same time we went into reform, so we raised personal savings to 5% for the new pensioners, which will not guarantee their safety at all when they enter the pension system. And of course what we don't normally have in Europe and what we always talk about the health system in Europe is not a burden of pay, at least not in full amount in Croatia the health system is funded by health care workers, we all know that, do we want to change that? As you can see, a big 2% is nothing, and otherwise I remember that the first 2% was reduced to health in 2000, and now 2% again, probably by the end of the term there will be no last 2%. Thus, the battle for the competitiveness of the economy is very important. And I'm convinced that some prices will rise, especially import prices, why will they rise? Well, the effects that go towards the economy, they won't feel it, but VAT will grow. And is this again the competitiveness of the Croatian product, because you will allow, there is a small difference between negative and positive VAT and a decrease of 2 index points per salary. As it has been deployed somewhere is a slightly larger effect on the entry somewhere on the exit side of individual economies, but it is still evident that the businessmen will have these effects. Today, the government also adopted proposals related to reducing parafiscal or non-taxable revenues in the Republic of Croatia, additional reductions that are in some way ensured that business conditions would be better, that competitiveness would be better, that ultimately the effects of pluses and minuses could be increased through competitiveness and on the domestic market, so that we could ultimately reduce food. When we talk about the standard of citizens and the biggest problem is too much of issuing citizens to eat, that is what gets the most into the monthly life basket of our citizens and the battle that we have food, a domestic producer who will still have huge effects from this Law and that they can then be competitive on the domestic market, quality plus competition can still mean greater production, re-returning people into a cycle of employment. So it's obvious, this is a package of major influences on the deficit there is no, but what we expect, however, is that turning this trend of investment activities, investment spending can mean which number of more employees, greater security of their own but then certainly higher revenues that we can expect into the budget. Maybe a few words because we see that there are a lot of misunderstandings. We are talking about water supply because this is how EU directives provide that we can have a lower tax rate or a cross-border rate. And it is understood that it will also be on the delivery of water and on the drain. And also since you felt that it was possible to talk about both gas and electricity, unfortunately the directive did not foresee so it was a problem, and next year it was a problem. So much so we can try to figure it out. This is a battle for Croatia's competitiveness and for the workplace. Is there going to be an effect? I'm convinced. Still, it's the businessmen who know what to do. And another word, the changes in the law are in place, and whoever wants to extract the capital will pay the dividend, they will pay. One who won't invest will also pay higher VAT costs because he uses cars because he uses teams. So we thought that they had to be in the function of everyone who was going to fight for a job. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2688	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First honorary colleague Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2689	Dear Mr. Minister said among other things that the standard is the citizens' food. I'm saying that it's not just a standard for citizens to eat, it's also a sport, culture, social upgrade, etc. and that these mini-tax reforms have a significant impact on exactly this upgrade in units of local self-government that further poverty their budgets, and this new proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not significantly affect the development of this social upgrade. As a party, we said we would support all these measures except value added tax, but I ask you to understand that without real fiscal decentralisation it is impossible to start Croatia. In the end, there's only one sentence, and as Minister of Finance, you have to know and you have to do everything. That today in Croatia 60 is not a million kuna but almost 60 billion kunas of unpaid taxes. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2690	My colleague, we have a Rules of Procedure. It's worth it to you as well as to everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2691	I claim that the former tax administration was part of that arm of octopus and that these 60 billion kunas are 90% of the political-like debts of the Republic of Croatia. Pick it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2692	Comrade Vinkovic, look at this. You've exceeded your time for double, yes. And second, you haven't corrected the quote. You're not. You replicate here, you state your political position on what you are entitled to in the context of your debate as well as everyone else. Please, please, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure be so kind. Please let's be collegiate, let's be parliamentary, stick to the Rules of Procedure while he's like this. Here's my thanks. The second correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the two incorrect allegations of Mr. Linic regarding his findings about the inaction of the previous governments or the previous government but also, for example, about the growth of exports. So, I remind you, last year, fortunately, we had a respectable growth in exports. Here's the latest data I remember somewhere around 7%, but especially in the wood industry. And secondly, I remind myself of the reduction of parafiscal duties carried out by my government and the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act. I remember that's when Mr. Zoran Milanovic said that as soon as you came to power that he would change it, we can see that he's not changing. And about the Labour Act. I'm glad to hear that news from the government of the Republic of Croatia is coming today that the Labour Act is about to change. I also remind you of the VAT. So, Mr. Linic, one of your statements when we raised the VAT rate was that the government was constantly sending stupidity to Parliament and that you literally didn't even get to react to how much nonsense came in. I remind you because today we're talking about an increase in VAT by 2 additional percent. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2694	The first part was certainly a correction, but the reminder does not fall into corrections. We'll agree to that. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one for discussion came from a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2695	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the moment when we pass this package of tax laws, I think you will agree that Croatia is indeed the whole between sustainable hope and unsustainable depression. But not the hopes that will cover us in order that change does not come to us, but that it is precisely that each person as a natural or legal person or a legal person or a society or even a state or society as a whole contributes to such one change that will lead to a better and safer future. This isn't the time of some courage, but it's not even the time of indecision. It's not the time of any literary enthusiasm in either these discussions or these literary compositions or epicas, it's the time of simple reality. This is a time of reality and a time of great responsibility. The Croatian Government and we here must do what Croatia needs at this time. That's why in this sense these laws prove to be real. They are, in any case, premeditating what we will discuss on Monday's budget itself. It is important to note that for the first time in all these bill proposals, carrots and beatings are distributed fairly. So far, almost all the measures that have been taken have always been that someone gets constantly carrots and someone gets constantly beaten. So being righteous and in a difficult situation is of paramount importance. This whole package of laws is aimed at, as we have already heard from the promoters here from a number of representatives of the club's start-up economy, creating jobs, providing funds for investment. As Mr Linic said here, this is a battle for investment, a battle for jobs. I would add that this is also a battle for valorizing work, but not only in this economic but also in a spiritual sense. All this time until now, all these years, the work has been degraded, jobs have been lost, and then there has been an upgrade of one defeated policy to the economic and each other that is not worth doing, and because work and if you do nothing can't achieve anything. There was a time when more and more someone wanted to behave like that just couldn't behave like that anymore. That is why we see a single justice in this Bill on Value Added Tax. So the bill, also already said, fully restricting the deductions of pre-taxes for the purchase and rental of vessels, vehicles for entertainment. We can see that there was one big tax invasion, we didn't have control mechanisms, and it wasn't mildly said or willing to control it. So those who profited from the companies bought castles and lived in them instead of applying exactly what even under existing laws were obliged to pay their own tax company, or rent. But to make the absurd even bigger, I personally saw it with my own eyes, and everyone knows it from you here, that this team was not just a team for business colleagues, for guests, for partners, but it was also a representation where you ate in restaurants, but the same thing where you bought bread and milk and a complete list as we say or you here spout monthly while the citizens watched as much as a few times a product to see how much cheaper it was. That's what they did. And then when it's lifted now we're talking exactly how it's an anti-enterprise climate. No, there's no need to discuss then that just those who invest and what's been resolved and another bill will be released from any giving. Therefore, in this bill, it is certain that this tax invasion will be reduced and the revenues of the state budget will be increased. What I would particularly like to emphasise in the proposal for a tax on profit, that the proposed changes are indeed the aim of encouraging investment that will lead to an increase in employment, as well as economic growth, which is the main objective of Croatia and the main objective of this government. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions will certainly achieve, among other things, economic recovery and development of entrepreneurship, as the planned reduction of salary contributions as a direct measure to increase the cost of competitiveness of the economy. But here I would especially like to apostrophe something that we will also take care of, and it is certain that the government will do so in amendments to the Penal Code. Until 1997, to the so-called Criminal mini reforms have always been tax evasion, but also contributed to a criminal offence, and then the legislator sees if miracles have become so advanced and benevolent that these contributions have been exempted from the Penal Code and we, today, have not been sanctioned as a criminal offence by health or pension. It was a message that such behavior was not something that was socially dangerous, which was not even observable, and it was a message that no such contributions were actually paid. How many families were seduced into black when they came to know that no pension contributions were paid. So here I am just reminding myself now that this is exactly one good measure but that we must also ensure that even so reduced such contributions in order to increase employment are then sanctioned if someone does not behave in accordance with the law because I believe that such behaviour is of the exceptional social danger that they must find both their place and their kind of sanctioning. With the Income Tax Bill, I would like to point out in particular that there is a difference here between the current government and the last government. In many things, we can and should agree on fundamental principles, I would say pillars that are our values of Croatia, but we will never agree on certain things, and that is precisely what needs to be met for the poor, but not for populist measures, but for the substantive measures that must then include not only such a bill of income tax but which any law of such norm and such spirit must come from every bill of law. And in the end, I want to say one last thing. Someone named this tax package as one that will not achieve the goal, which has been declared by the proposings that we who support these proposals on several occasions pointed out that its goal is just to fill the budget. If it fills it with a good part then that's what I mean explained for what purpose such filling is going to be. It is important that such money, but also any taxpayer's money, never ends up in a black bag again, in a black bag, but in a budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2696	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct Mrs. Anticevic-Marinovic's quote and her findings on carrots and beatings. In fact, I find that incorrect what she said. Certainly, by increasing the VAT prices of carrots will increase, carrots will collect and the beating will certainly be cheap. And as for Mrs Anticevic-Marinovic's debate on the tax law package, I remind her that she is spending her debates from 2009 when we proposed an increase in VAT by 1%. It would be hard to quote now, and I'm not gonna do it out of courtesy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2698	Minister Linic answered the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2699	Two words, how much a tax revenue package has an impact on revenue in the budget. As you can see, no. With the basis of tax laws, revenue in the budget does not grow. And that's an important difference from a 1-percent growth, or from a harrass, as my colleague Shucker said. Then tax laws and tax packages went to the revenue side, went to the revenue side. But as my colleague Anticevic said, which times is not the problem. This doesn't go to the revenue side, but it does go to the revenue side, and reducing the deficits wouldn't be a problem. But when you propose a tax package that goes into the income side, and then you raise expenses, you don't control expenditures, you increase deficits, and you go over 15 billion deficits, and then it's not reasonable, then it's not economic policy-making. Then it's not a battle for competitiveness and jobs. That's the difference between tax packages that are in front of you. There are no effects on the income side. But what's still a feature of the budget that we'll see that although there are no effects of these tax laws, the deficit falls. That's the difference, that's the difference, and that's the difference. The package, unfortunately, also increases in certain taxes go into the function of the economy. Why couldn't it have been without a rise, that's what we're asking ourselves. So for the simple reason that we have too much budget expenditure, which these huge expenditures are financed by deficits, loans and any further giving of the economy is impossible to find relief from the economy at the expense of deficits. And that's why we've been trying to find some balance between the burden of spending and discharging the economy. This infidelity in that economy, the infidelity that they will be able to use it to return to their jobs and investment to the government that proposes these packages, however, does not exist. It really doesn't exist. We are confident that these tax packages will still turn them back to work, re-production, again. Because it's simply the only way to find the way out of the crisis. Only when we look at what the EU has done in three or four years, which we are entering tomorrow, has made it possible for it to support the economy, should we not talk about these aids better. The huge percentages of GDP, huge amounts, all in order for workers to not be fired. Unfortunately, we didn't have it. We had new packages, new taxes, but we just spent. Not in the economy, but in the uncontrollable expenditure of the state budget. And that's the important difference between the package that's in front of you. These are important differences. Therefore, the package that burdened consumption has been compromised I would say the stability of personal consumption as a contribution to the social gross product, but at the same time the package we are convinced that the two-digit figures in the part of investment consumption will come into positive trends. That's about the difference. Comparing us and Germany is very difficult. Germany has indeed huge own production and battle for this production and market and production is something else. And what have we been doing for the last 20 years? What were we doing? We've imported it. We turned everything around to accommodate imports, we did everything, and that this import took a very dangerous height on the Croatian market. So what do we need? Spend, stimulate consumption? The consumption that's going to mean bigger imports? Well, we don't think it's a battle for investment and we don't think it's a battle for a job. These are two different policies, two different approaches. It is up to you to identify yourself who is good and whether any of these approaches may have a chance of greater success in the battle for the workplace. But it's not good when we talk about a bigger tax, and we don't understand where we spent it or it's our responsibility. Therefore, a package of tax laws goes in favour of the economy and the faith that this economy will know how to bring it back through jobs, and at the same time the battle that we don't spend what we don't have, so the revenue from this tax package in the budget is not increased because the HDZ Club found in the opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2700	You picked up the plate after the show. The first to be corrected came from a respected representative of counterpart Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2701	Well, here's my first thanks, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting Mr. Minister's incorrect claim that amending tax laws will not lead to an increase in tax revenues. In fact, an increase in the value added tax rate will increase in the budget the revenue that will count the value added tax. At the same time, reducing the revenues of the state budget, reducing the rate of contribution over health insurance is another thing. But the fact is that tax revenues will be increased by this tax reform. And the fact is, and here I agree with the minister, that this is exactly why the state budget's revenue is going to fall because by increasing the consumption tax rate, the value added tax will fall, and then it will indirectly fall and the revenues that are planned in the state budget by virtue of value added tax. And as for the previous government, I also have to say that taxes that were increased in 2009, only briefly, were fixed times and after a certain time were reduced accordingly, did not permanently lead to an increase in tax revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2702	The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct Mr. Minister's incorrect allegations of an increase in tax burden and an increase in expenditure. So, the minister spoke of the previous government, incorrectly that the government that increased VAT, so the government I ran, by 1%, then introduced a crisis tax but was abolished next year, so it did not increase expenditure. Last year, I remind you, and the expenditures were frozen, for which the SDP Club refused to vote, expenditures were frozen, with such frozen expenditures that did not increase, we included new four billion commitments, for interest, for increasing pension funds, for elections, for a referendum etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2704	We will continue with an individual debate without any intention to discourage anyone in anything but giving you information we have 24 colleagues registered for discussion, therefore in ideal conditions without any replica, without any correction of the incorrect quote we have at least 4 hours of work to do. Okay. So, a colleague named Dragica Zgrebec came forward to discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2705	Thank you, Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Although the minister precisely said in his remarks what the difference between changes in tax laws two years ago and today is not a renegotiation. Namely, what's the difference, that's what my colleague Shucker was talking about on behalf of the Club and Vice President Kosor in his corrections. We only had an increase in tax taxes so by 1 index point increased VAT and they introduced me never spoke harras, special tax on wages and pensions. At the same time, it seemed to me that 200 kuna increased the non-taxable share of income, these were one tax change and they really increased the revenues of the budget. They increased budget revenues but at the same time the cost reduction was not to the extent to reduce the deficit and what we got. Although this is the law on fiscal responsibility and government decisions not to increase expenditures we have come to 15 billion kuna deficits and this is a sustainable state. If such a pace started, we would have already had 20 billion kunas of deficits this year. So this is an unsustainable state and even in public there is, in fact, now awareness of the change even more drastic cuts than it was done in this Budget Proposal. So, what kind of situation do we have today? We have a high duty. We've had a few years, not a few quarters of economic downturn, we have high unemployment and low employment, and man really doesn't know what the bigger problem is. Is it a bigger problem that we have a large number of unemployment, or is it a bigger problem that we have such a low share of the population's activity in a working-age population that is worrying because, according to the latest data, I think 40.4%, the European Union has declared the objective of 70% of some countries have a more employed working population. So, we have a problem with having a bad structure of the economy, high imports, small exports and little products that can be competitive in exports, we are focused on the Western European market and tomorrow as a member of the Union we will have a problem not only on the external market but also on the domestic market if we do something with the competitiveness of our economy. So, on which objectives this budget was planned, and then adequately, the amendments to the law. The three main objectives are to balance the budget, so a significant reduction in deficits, financial discipline of state finances, that will not be enough, there must be far greater attention to the overall financial discipline because we have almost levelled the blocked funds on the accounts of entrepreneurs, and if we add the population to that with money in circulation. So 40 billion makes just over 50 billion money that's currently in circulation. The second objective is to help socially sensitive groups of citizens, as far as possible at this point. I'm sure it's not enough, but something's still trying to do it. And third but perhaps the first and most important goal is to dynamic the economy, investment, the minister here provided certain information about how our investment situation is. And now these five laws that we are now discussing, how they are reflected, according to which groups, or according to which areas. When we look at taxes, when we look at citizens, then there's a part of the income tax because it's increasing this time significantly by 400 kuna that non-taxable part, and that's going to have the biggest impact at least in small amounts, but it means something to people in that category exactly to those who receive below average pay. For them, for employees, one part of entrepreneurs will likely decide that this rate of reduction in the health contribution of 2 index points may be one part of the overflow in net salary. There is, of course, this Health Insurance Act that will reduce hospital treatment for patients who are unable to pay additional insurance for a significant amount at this time that is possible. According to the economy, most of the profit tax is there, if it is reinvested, but also sanctions if they pay the dividend, it is the decision of this coalition government, which was the decision of the then coalition government almost in the same composition in 2000 when we introduced the dividend tax. Our Constitution says that everyone must contribute to the community or pay taxes according to their economic strength and what is already the first lesson in economic college when listening to a college about taxes is less tax rates and more coverage. What do we have? We have a small income coverage and high rates. And it's an unsustainable condition, and we need to change that. I will only look back very briefly on this because a lot has already been said by the VAT Act and the Profit Tax Act. So we raise the VAT rate from 23% to 25%. What effect can that have on prices? Increase if we're going to be correct by 1.6%. Whether or not each enterprise will raise the price of its product by 1.6%, its competitiveness and whether it will reduce its margin to the expense of those 1.5%. The truth is you also see on the portals that the eight says that prices will rise by 4 to 5% of import products. Well, that just means that they'll be more expensive at the store and they'll be less competitive to the domestic entrepreneur if he stays at this price existing or raises by 1.6%. So, at the same time, we increase the number of products and services to which VAT will be paid at a lower rate, so on oil and fat, baby food, water delivery, sugars. And what does that mean? Instead of 23% of the VAT rate if the traders are correct, it will be a reduction of 8.4%. So at this point I'm saying there's a awareness that we need to change in both business and political terms and that we all need to make sure that we spend as much as we do. It's past a time when you can borrow cheaply. We are in a situation today that we cannot pay or make commitments, that we have to reprogram them and reprogram them each year under more unfavourable conditions. This is an unsustainable situation, and I am optimistic that we will also have the proposed budget that we will discuss on Monday, which is exactly what we will have in the implementation of the budget. Of course, that is not enough and that for a few more years we will actually go to certain restrictions, and to stimulate the economy and economic growth. When we talk about the economy, therefore, it is certain that it will have a very big impact on our economics and a reduction in the rate of contribution to health insurance because only in Croatia is the health contribution paid or financed only by those who are employed and who are retired. Of course I'll accept all five laws that are under discussion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2706	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Frano Matušić believes that counterpart Zgrebec has made some incorrect allegations, to hear what is said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect to say that GDP has been recorded in Croatia in the last year. In fact, the last three quarters were growing, and that meant getting out of the crisis. In each EU country for two consecutive quarters in plus, and that was the second and third and fourth quarter months in Croatia during the HDZ rule as you like to say they were positive. And you predict GDP growth for this year of 0.8% and all analysts tell you it will fall at least 1%. Is that a public deception?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2708	Thank you very much. We continue with an individual debate, but perhaps one useful information to all MPs. HRTV just suspended a direct transmission of this session. A colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2709	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. Whether television is transmitted or not, a little different tone from what we've heard so far. It seems to me that this tax reform and what awaits us Monday is a debate on the 2012 budget so that the following sentence can be used: "They changed almost everything in a way that almost everything remains the same." In fact, what I personally expected happened. And the government of Zoran Milanovic is a neoliberal government, favouring large capital. Everything that happens happens happens across the back of workers through those who have the least. These tax reforms will benefit the poorest or 50 kuna or almost nothing. Those with 15 thousand kunas pay almost to keep their wages intact. Those who have the least of them will have a value added tax popular VAT will take all those 50 to 80 kuna which will be paid to them by new taxes. So what happened with this new package of measures is a lot of changes but no significant impact. So far, no one's saying what's with not as much as my 45 billion debt to the state as it is 55 billion 9 billion concessions, 45 billion taxes. What about that debt? How will the government collect that debt? What's actually disappointing is that this government is, although someone has said before from the predecessors that this is a real economy and reform policy. It may be a real economy for this moment and for this government, but reform policy is certainly not. The VAT increased by 2% from 23% to 25%, but no one said clearly what the effects of that increase were. Intersteps are actually a scam, between 10% rates on certain food products and water will certainly not improve the standard of Croatian citizens. A while ago, the government announced here we spoke at the Croatian Parliament 6% of the burden on telecommunications operators. After that, a meeting was called in the government with operators and was already said to remain until the 6th month, and after the 6th month negotiations would follow, either to strip or to remain. So several foreign-owned companies are stronger than the government's intention. The banks were still uncircumcised. Everything that's happened has happened on account of either the poorest or the middle class. For example, before the highest tax rate applied to salaries of more than 10800 kuna, the tax rate of 40% is now being introduced into salaries of 8800 kuna. It's actually the last nail stuck in the middle layer. It's that part of the middle layer that's going to be even poorer. Everything else that happens in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been defined as a social state, and it is possible for the social state to achieve social justice, and social justice can be achieved by progressive taxation. However, progressive taxation only happens in income tax. That is why we Croatian Labour Party advocate progressive taxation in other taxes. So income tax could even be introduced instead of 40% and a higher rate than 45%, and that's for salaries that are significantly higher. The reduction in the rate of health contribution from 15% to 13% is considered an extremely bad proposal because it will undoubtedly bring down the quality of health services. We Croatian Labourists believe that the health contribution must not be reduced because it is not tax but is the money that citizens pay for health services, and if the state wants to relieve employers then let it reduce taxes. Value added tax, only two sentences left. Debtor these, 9 billion concessions and 45 billion taxes are a secret. We ask here is the Minister of Finance why the secret is who is in charge of the Croatian state and why it is simply not announced who cut off the Croatian state by almost half the budget. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2710	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear colleague Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2711	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, the increase in VAT rates from 23% to 25%, which naturally places Croatia at the very top of Europe's VAT scales, is what concerns me, but I am concerned, in fact, primarily about the social aspect of it because it is unequivocally a blow to the poorest who will suffer the most, will not suffer the rich. And it is true, as the poor are in Croatia, unfortunately this moment is far more, they will bring the most money to the budget but at what cost. Prices will increase significantly from 1 March, and not by 1.5 and 2%, as reported by suppliers, traders, etc. 5 to 10% somewhere. Now if the price increases, of course, will be the most suffered by those who use it every day, and these are our poorest citizens. But it's interesting how it all goes in one operating style. When we remember how much bile, revilation, criticism, etc. When the crisis tax was introduced, which was actually much more socially sensitive by the way, because he only affected the salary of more than 6,000 kuna, and this affects every citizen. What is important is to note that stories about how 10% of VAT rates will help some products are fairy tales. This will not help the poorest at all, but it needs to be broken down because of some other important things. So one thing is what it means to stimulate the consumption of animal fat. It is said that it will be reduced by animal fat. I have to say as a doctor that all developed countries are particularly dimming the consumption of animal fat because it is known to be harmful, from causing heart and blood vessels disease to malignant diseases etc., and here we are now taxing to stimulate it, to even with much healthier oils, etc. What is also very interesting is what the promoter probably came up with to create the impression of taking care of children, etc. is that the rate is also designed for children's food and processed food for infants and young children. It's just scary and it's awful. Namely, Croatia is still in '89. In 2002 she signed at the World Health Organization a Global Strategy for the Nutrition of infants and young children, which in fact significantly detimises exactly what we are introducing. Therefore breast-feeding is stimulated during the first 6 months or so. nutrition only with breast milk because breast-feeding is known to be the best and most economical way to feed a child, and also the best way to prevent a disease not only a child but also an adult, so the mother too. But here's what we're doing right now, we're actually detiming breastfeeding contrary to the views of the World Health Organization, UNICEF, as well as the declarations that we signed as a state and I have to admit contrary to all the views of world science. I'm just amazed by that. If someone thinks to answer me in this way how it really concerns those mothers who cannot breastfeed the answer right now, today science recommends up to 2 months 2/3 and later half-fat milk, then there is no need to buy anything in the pharmacy or shop but can prepare normal food. So it's another one of the floscules. I don't want to talk much at all, not just because Mr. Shucker is very clearly explained that this will not significantly help the economy, but will incredibly reverse health care. There should be no illusions if we take away 2 billion 400 million dollars of health care money from the public. For so long, our patients will have fewer services and no floscules, no fog will change that. Mantra on how this development of entrepreneurship will encourage, etc. It does not say at all that these same entrepreneurs and their employees will eventually have nowhere to treat or treat. In fact, those 2.4 billion will not be compensated in any way because when you look at the draft budget, then you can see that health care will have significantly less money. So the story of spilling it into some others just doesn't stand. And now finally maybe one interesting thing again. In fact, the uninformed might think naively that by reducing from 3,000 to 2,000, I'm simply going to call participations actually something to help people, that it's something positive, etc. That's not true at all. Most people today have extra insurance, pay those who have pensioners who have less than 50 kunas, 80 or 120, and that actually covers it and they don't have to give anything, no lip. So nothing they feel will, they actually care whether it could be raised to 10 thousand kuna or reduced to a thousand kuna. They won't feel it. But who's gonna feel it? They'll feel all the hospitals mostly top-notch hospitals, clinical hospitals, clinical hospitals that carry out complex and expensive procedures because they'll get less money. In particular, KBC Zagreb will receive 12 million kunas in this year, and all hospitals together 91 million kuna less. So much less will be able to provide services to our citizens. Therefore, the reduction in hospital revenues on this basis will have a direct consequence of the increase in total and total liabilities, the debt means that the principle and rule of the Budget Law, the Fiscal Responsibility Act, will be compromised. So, everything contrary to what is announced. And by the way, to return to VAT, only because of the VAT of KBC Zagreb, one single hospital will increase costs by 8.5 million more. So today's decisions will, and let's be aware of that, make only KBC Zagreb debt for 20 and some million kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2712	We have two replicas on this exhibit. First, honourable representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2713	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, clearly I agree with you that breastfeeding is the best diet for a child, for a newborn, etc. But we need to understand that this, I don't mean to be a ruling lawyer at all, but reducing VAT to baby food, so 10% doesn't mean that this opinion, I'm convinced that most parents and women know that breast milk is the best milk. But this milk or food whose VAT is 10%, according to this proposal legally, has its price back. It costs as opposed to your mother's. Therefore, I do not think that this will especially affect the reduction of breast-feeding, and the increase in purchase and use of this to say children's food, i.e. the milk offered on the market. I don't think that has any particular correlation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2714	Replication response, colleague Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2715	Just for a little while, the correlation is direct, there is. There are a number of studies that clearly say this if we stimulate formulas as colloktially said or adjusted milk etc. Breast-feeding is being reduced and breast-feeding is clearly detimising, and this will be done by the Croatian government in this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2716	Second replica, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2717	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Reiner, I agree with you that certainly an increase in VAT rates will affect the decline of citizens' standards and certainly I agree with the part where it tries to relativise and even say that something is good. So I can't explain to my farmer an individual member of the family farm that he's doing well. That he's doing well to raise his VAT, another thing to eliminate his support in agriculture for such terrible amounts. Third, to cut his travel expenses for a travel order so he can achieve health care. It's an unsustainable condition. It's simply incomprehensible and people say so as they came to us at the time of the campaign with that 21 program on the market, and I say agriculture is working on the ground, on the grant, that man there works and creates and tortures. You understand? This is, in some ways, discrimination against this agricultural population. Another thing about health care contributions. Even less someone can convince me that reducing health care contributions will be good for health care. Well, the health care system always needs extra resources, and it's still going down, so when it's going to be. Oh, my God, that's something else, you know? It's based on some guesses. Well medicine and health care are serious things, you can't work here based on some projections that will be if it will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2718	We continue with an individual debate of 10 minutes. The next is Honorable Representative Nikola Vuljanic, please. Comrade Vuljanić, you're up next, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2719	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would start with this optimism that is spreading on boards today, and here it has been mentioned that citizens in large quantities support these measures because they are sure they will be better off. Well, people aren't exactly like that. Citizens don't even think about these measures right now, citizens are eager to get their hopes up, citizens are eager to be told even without reason, they'll be better off tomorrow, they'll get caught after all those fears if you don't get into Europe, you won't get your pensions and salaries, if you don't do this and they won't get your pensions and salaries. After all these fears to the citizens is a little bit of hope, to a little bit as we once called the bright future. And what happens to them? They have a VAT increase of 2%, which is 8.7% of the VAT value. According to experts who have explained why this is good that VAT is neutral and that it should in no way affect the price of finished products. He may be neutral for traders, he may be neutral for the seller, but for the end consumer, for the one who buys his cash in the store he is not neutral. He's very specific, and he's very good at the price. The growth of VAT cannot but result in lower consumption, so it is clear to everyone that it should not be both economists and particularly smart. It is clear to the Croatian government as well. Namely, VAT rises by two percentage points, 8.7%, but income from the traffic of goods and services only increases by 2.5% not by 8%. So it's clear that there's going to be a traffic drop, that this increased VAT will add something but not as far as it's growing. I can't say a better word than a farce. What the government tells us, it orders you to eat sugar and drink water. Now that you've got sugar and water, you'll know what you're getting, you get the Zuckerwasser, these measures are the Zuckerwasser. We are now told that these 10% rates cannot be introduced by the European Union directives for electricity and gas, but whether the directives are acts that must be heard for sure. I'm not sure. The minister said the VAT increase does not serve to charge the budget and spend at all, but rather aliminates the decline in income from health contributions. That's true, now it's a question of who's drinking who's paying. Who pays for this VAT increase? They pay the citizens, most often the ones with the lowest incomes, all of us with 15 or 20 thousand kunas, it won't be hard to fall on our account, but those with 3 or 4 will. And where does that money go? Like the minister said, he goes to the employers. So, after everything that was state-owned was stolen, after everything that couldn't be stolen was destroyed, it's now being pulled out of the citizens' pockets and poured into the employers' pocket. In a good part of those who claim as their president of the association that workers are burdened around their necks. Now such an employer is not an employer he is a capitalist in the worst sense of the 918 word. That part of tax reform is definitely not a Zuckerwasser. That part of the reform is the bad part, the part that serves to rob citizens and help those who already have a lot. Speaking of contributions, the reduction in the contribution will not in any way reduce the rights, and here we have this new Health Insurance Act that says that transport between 30 and 50 km is no longer paid, is it not one of the rights that is being reduced, we will vote on Friday to reduce that right. and health wanted this neoliberal theorists to admit or not health is not a commodity, health is a category of human rights. Finally, the ministry is no longer called the health ministry, the health ministry, but the health ministry, the ministry of one of the fundamental human rights. A minor contribution to this health should result in new jobs. It is also possible that it simply merges into the employer's pockets, especially in a situation where the profit tax is not progressive, so if the profit tax remains at one rate, I don't know what will stimulate the employer so much that this means that he is free to use in opening new places. That's exactly why we insisted as a club on the progressive rate of profit tax. First there, in the 1990s, a state-run and socially turned into a state, then the state was transformed into our country, our narrow circle of people the late president named. Then it was stolen, which was not stolen, destroyed and destroyed, every single one of us in our town knows the entire industrial neighborhoods that have been devastated. Now there's no more, there's one bank left, there's one insurance company left, there's natural wealth left and there's other pockets of citizens. This is an attack on citizens' pockets. Which one's next? What's horrifying here in Parliament and in government is actually the ease with which government officials are 150 and 50 across the square here, we manage and eliminate human fates by not thinking that the 85,000 or 128 thousand in another group of citizens who are going to get 50 kunas and will spend on a larger VAT 350 kuna that is 80 or 150 thousand living people and their families. When we start to see that, then we'll make different decisions here. And it's terrible that none of this government, of the Social Democratic Authority, sees it as if we're not watching television, don't you see what's going on in the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2720	This personal exposure prompted two MPs to report for replication. First of all, colleague Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2721	I would like to thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament, my colleagues and my colleagues. Although here are several debates already by Croatian Labourists, the concept that this is a neoliberal government and that we did not take care of the intersteps. I would like to replicate in this section about inter-steps and alignment with the European Union. A colleague asked whether we are really obliged to bring all directives and regulations into line. YES, we are both mandatory, because your party also supported the Declaration and opted for Croatia's strategic entry into the European Union with another important note, which is that the government left a zero VAT rate on certain products including bread, milk and scientific magazines, orthopedic supplies and other things until 1 July 2013 when the scheduled date of entry into the EU. And the 10% rate relates to the catalogue of those products and services that can be introduced in accordance with EU directives and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2722	Reply to the replica of his colleague Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2723	Thank you. This with the neoliberal government and the liberal party, Prime Minister Milanovic said. Prime Minister Milanovic said this himself that SDP is a modern liberal party, I didn't invent anything about it. Movers show it. And well, everyone has the right to their own policy is that each one for his own policy corresponds to his constituents, there is no mistake in that. The EU regulation must be followed because we have signed it, directives not in the same way. If we have a good one, I'll say the courage to stay nice, if we have the courage, we can at least make a few directives temporarily and bend and excitate. Of course we can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2724	Second replica, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2725	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Vuljanić's, therefore, health insurance rights are the right to health care and the right to compensation for the costs you have noticed. I'm glad you noticed that in this proposal, the reduction of rights from those 30 kilometers extends to 50 km. I'm glad you noticed something was wrong. But it's even more interesting to mention in the interpretation and reasoning of the same intention. It will therefore enable the uniform implementation of all the rights of the insurance company in full and on equal terms. I claim my colleague is not on equal terms. If a man who is 45 km away from the place and cannot exercise his right to health care for this provision means that he is not on equal terms but is in some way discriminated against. It is a population from our rural areas which also has difficult material opportunities in these circumstances when they are reduced support when the dairy industry will no longer respect them, milk cannot sell, etc. In these circumstances, I think this is an unfair decision that our colleague Anticevic Marinovic says cries out to heaven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2726	Reply to the replica of his colleague Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2727	Thank you. Thank you for giving me further arguments, that's a fact, and I said it on one of the boards today, so I was responsible that the networks of health care facilities were such that the 30 km really didn't need it anymore. I didn't want to discuss it much further on the board. This network may be in Zagreb and the surrounding area. This network is certainly not here in Plaška where they were stuck in a snowstorm yesterday, this network is neither in Lika nor in Dalmatia, nor in a mass of places in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2728	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Sir Deputy, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here I understand the need and I would also say to the government that, with the tax reform proposed by the Croatian Parliament, it is trying to find the right way to meet its view of forming a state budget as a basic financial act and thus reduce the expenditure side so as to reduce the deficit of the state budget. But from this reform that has been proposed, I personally don't think that the right path has been found in order for these projections to be made at the beginning when the government and the guidelines for economic and financial policy to be met, and I'm afraid that the almost announced budget rebalance will confirm what I will try to show in my debate. By amending the Value Added Tax Act, it is certainly a blow to the economy and to employment in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the fact is that just before Mrs. Zgrebec said that increasing the value added tax rate from 23% to 25% strictly in the price of the service product represents everything as you said 1.6% increase in that price. But when this is viewed, it is true, however, that the government and the Ministry of Finance themselves predicted this increase in value added tax to further increase the revenues of the state budget in that position by around 2 billion, 600 million kuna. And the correct information is that according to the 2011 census in Croatia, there are about a million households in Croatia, so if it is divided it amounts to about 730 kuna each household in Croatia will pay more in 2012 since the change in value added tax took effect compared to what it paid last year. If we continue to accept the fact that amending the Income Tax Act is going to reduce the tax appreciation of citizens by about 260 million kunas, although I have to show my doubts about whether it will actually decrease 260 million kunas, because given the complexity of the income tax law, given the measurement and the classes and rates that this law provided for and then we can doubt whether it will be exactly 260 million kuna, but if we accept that, then again, somewhere around 530 kuna, each household will pay more taxes in this year in the state budget by virtue of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Value Added Tax. The fact is that entrepreneurs do not have to increase the price of their products and services by those 1.6% as it is said that this rate increase could cause, but that means that 2 billion 600 million kunas will take over and thus become clearly less competitive. They will clearly have to cut costs so that they can justify their business and thus it can very easily lead to layoffs. Therefore, either that cost will be passed on to citizens, and this amounts to that amount of value added tax that I said or will be taken over by entrepreneurs, and then they will clearly have higher costs in business. This means that there will then be layoffs, and not to say that the increase in value added tax will reduce consumption, and then by reducing consumption, economic activities, etc., etc. I therefore believe that this path, which was routed by an increase in value added tax, is not real, and the fact is that most European countries in the European Union did not increase value added tax at the beginning of the crisis, but was reducing it. I agree with Mr Vuljanić, not the way, it is practically a flossula and a blurred eye. The fact is that since the value added tax was introduced several times, new rates have been introduced even when a zero rate on bread and milk has been introduced and when a 10% rate on tourism has been introduced and the rate on newspapers has been introduced. We are witnessing that not one time when the inter-step was introduced that product at which it was introduced was introduced is not a reduced price but, in general, the entrepreneurs used the reduced rate practically to increase them and make their business easier because now the part they paid at a higher rate went to them. Therefore, by introducing an inter-step I do not see that anything can be compensated for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is that the introduction of an inter-step will lead to a decrease in the price of the product and, as a rule, we are witnesses, whenever a lower rate of the basic rate has been introduced did not result in a decrease in the price of a particular product or service. I mentioned a income tax that, according to the Ministry of Finance's projection, should cut the tax credits by about 250 million kuna. I doubt that amount because we will see it already after 6 months of the law itself whether it will actually cut from that income tax base, but what is certain is that for that amount if it is correct to reduce the incomes of local self-government units. I, here it was this morning and there were speeches about it, I didn't hear the association of cities, or the association of municipalities that opposed this decision that led practically to the reduction of the income of local self-government units, which will significantly make the position and business of local self-government units more difficult, but the fact is that the government, with a reduction and a change of income tax, has practically reduced one part of the costs to local self-government units, and in this way has practically relaxed its own position because the part that should be practically transferred to citizens to the local self-government unit. When I was talking about that VAT rate, and I was saying that it was practically flossula because that never changed the value added tax contributed to a reduction in the final price of the product, then I want to say that it is not even the right way. The value added tax is used to collect income, to increase the revenues of the state budget, and by transfers from the state budget, social transfers are assisted by certain social categories that need this assistance or which the Government holds should help. Therefore, the better way was not to introduce an inter-step, but to help specific categories of citizens from the state budget through social transfers of the precisely targeted group and categories of citizens in the Republic of Croatia in this way. And here's also since my time is running out, I would like to say that the government's intention to facilitate the economy by reducing the rate of contribution to health insurance from 15% to 13% in my opinion is volunteering. Namely, I don't know what led the government to just cut that contribution from 15 to 13%, namely the question can be asked why it wasn't reduced from 15 to 12 or from 15 to 11 or from 15 to 14. I would like to say that the government has estimated that the reduction in the rate of 2% is about the same amount of funding that will bring to the state budget an increase in the value added tax rate, so it is trying to equate the revenue and expenditure side of the state budget. If the decision to reduce the rate of contribution to health insurance was the result of one analysis and one health-level reform in the Republic of Croatia, then we could discuss this better and better. In this way, it seems to me that the government has determined to decrease by 2% in order to sort of equate both sides of the state budget and to show that by increasing value added tax on the other hand helps the economy in a way that leaves it 2 billion and 400 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2730	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2731	So from what I've said, I'm assessing that this is not the right way to lead to economic recovery, to an increase in living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2732	This is where your replication is presented by the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2733	Thank you. In his presentation, the esteemed colleague said that these legal proposals would affect the funding of units of local self-government and that they would reduce their incomes and practically make it impossible to work. However, here is a respected colleague who did not have in mind that the entire legal system of the Republic of Croatia and the legal system was not only acting under one law but also other laws, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia today referred to the procedure of the Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local self-government that redistributed income tax which would affect the local self-government units and everything else. So I think your thesis in that part is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2734	We'll also hear a reply to the replica of our colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2735	It is true that I have not seen the proposal for a law on the financing of units of local self-government, but it will only be adopted when this Parliament votes it and when we see exactly what part of it changes rates or how much income tax is directed towards the local self-government unit. At this point, the estimated amount of income tax cuts in any case to other units of local self-government according to the Government proposal and according to materials delivered by an amount of 250 million kuna. When that law comes, we'll discuss it, and we'll see how much he can make up for what is now being taken out of these local self-government units by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2736	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So when a new rate of value added tax was spoken of here a few years ago in much more difficult circumstances for the Croatian economy, more specifically in 2009, then there was a mention of, of course, a hack, and then today we can say that what is offered to Croatian citizens today is that it is not a hack, but a mega howler. Because 2% of points in value added tax really means a blow to the standard of Croatian citizens. It is not even a battle for entrepreneurship, because we could hear from those who are very professionally understood in this issue, so from tax experts we could hear that exactly the dividend tax that is proposed in this tax package will also be a very difficult stone around their necks, around the door of entrepreneurs, because other than the annual tax paid by the balance of 20% will introduce even 12% of the dividend tax, plus a tax which will normally be paid by domestic natural persons who have shares in societies or shares after the dividend is achieved. This taxation plus the tax brings a burden to a level of 34.2%, which is a message that in fact in Croatia it is extremely difficult to do business and that the conditions for the rentability of business are of course significantly lower. Therefore, entrepreneurs who are supposed to be making business easier are in fact making it difficult to operate in a way that is further taxed and that additionally they have to pay new funds in the state budget and budgets relating to local self-government units. So, of course, it's a mega harrass who will hit every family in Croatia because there will be an increase in prices not only among other electricity and other services that are naturally taxed by this law but also a total increase in prices in trade and thus certainly Croatian citizens at least 1200 kuna will be taken from their annual budgets of every family, at least 1200 kuna. On the other hand, when talking about income tax and talking about increasing personal deductions from 1800 to 2200 kuna, it is forgotten that 12% of taxes will no longer be paid up to 3600 but only up to 2200 kuna. So only to this non-taxable part, so up to 2200 kuna, and then double the increase. So, it goes 25% tax. That's what's forgotten to point out when you're already pointing out this one let's say a positive thing, which is that the personal deduction has been increased from 1800 to 2200 kuna then you're not saying that 12% of the tax to be paid now is only up to 2200 kuna, and then from 25%. Which means an extra pay shock, a blow to the lowest receipts. That's exactly what's causing the pay cut. Here is an example of the trade unions themselves, and they said it was really a one-on-one deception I would say to the Croatian public just as well as the Croatian public is fooled that the circumstances are much more difficult than they were in the previous period. That's not true. I will now repeat here what my fellow vice president tried to say that it will not be recorded because Croatian cameras, i.e. HRT cameras, are not included, but the rest of the media are there, of course. You do not have to favour only HRT cameras, although they will probably be able to get information on what has been discussed and what is being discussed today in the Croatian Parliament, so I will say this: in the last three quarters, that is, in three quarters last year, GDP grew in Croatia, it grew. In the second quarter, it grew by 0.8%, which is statistics that no one can change. In the third quarter, it grew by 0.6% and in the fourth quarter about 0.3%. All the countries affected by the recession, which hit the economic crisis when GDP increases in two consecutive quarters, then it is clear that the economy is slowly coming out of the crisis. These are the facts that contribute to the country's economy, the country coming out of the crisis because two consecutive quarters and a minus means that the country's economy is in crisis. So we have three quarters where the Croatian economy managed to rise above zero, it managed to get into plus. Therefore, the conditions governing the market have been adapted not only in Croatia, but, of course, to the European one above all, and certainly to the world market. In this regard, however, those measures were positive. Today talking about the circumstances are more difficult than they were is simply a public deception. Because this happened in the last three quarters. So by the end of last year 2011. Therefore, this cut, which on the one hand, burdens additionally with value added tax, burdens additional Croatian citizens and all those who are taxpayers for 3.5 billion kuna plus. It means direct burden on these same and private persons, so citizens of Croatian and Croatian economies. So 3.5 billion people have to pay you. And that someone's name is Croatian citizens. It will be they who will pay the additional 3.5 billion kuna to bring the new 3.5 billion kuna to the state budget. It is clear, therefore, that the part the government believes will free Croatian entrepreneurs, that it will reduce the fact that it will reduce their expenditure by changing taxes by changing health insurance contributions will not be enough. Why? Perhaps that would be enough if these 2.4 billion kunas were in one place or concentrated in 10 places, and then it could be talked about investments of 2 billion kunas, one investment of 2 billion kunas, or 10 investments of which I don't know 240 million kunas could really mean the launch of an economy. However, it has been allocated to all of Croatia to all entrepreneurs in Croatia. You know how many legal persons you have in Croatia, these will essentially not be enough to launch any investment cycle. When it is allocated to the number of legal persons affected by these reductions, the contribution and what it is trying to make to entrepreneurs. On the other hand, you've burdened them. You introduce them by introducing new taxes, new rates, etc., of course they will have to finance these changes in their computer system, someone will have to finance it is about 8% of the capital will need additional entrepreneurs to implement these changes, about 8% of their capital. They will be additionally burdened to be able to implement the changes that are in question today, there is no disbursement in essence, there will be no discharge nor any new climate for better investment, indeed it is a demagogy unfortunately, this demagogue will also cost Croatian businessmen, entrepreneurs, but in this case, in the case of an increase in VAT first of all, Croatian citizens who will have to bring 3.5 billion kuna more into the state budget. In addition, personal consumption is foreseen according to these projections given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the next two years the expected decline in personal consumption. What does that mean? This means that the Croatian citizens and you who are proposing these laws and tomorrow's budget will mean that you will have a lower standard of personal consumption for Croatian citizens. Because when there's a fall in personal consumption in Croatia, it comes when it's worse standard, only then it comes. Secondly, we cannot look back on the draft budget because these amendments to the Law that are before us today are related to the 2012 budget. What's even more tragic about what you're going public with is that you're predicting growth in economic growth in this year by 0.8%. All analysts say economically that the drop will be at least 0.2% and that is the easiest version of the crash. And the others say there's going to be a drop of at least 1%. So you have to count that 1.8% will even be the difference in the state budget based only on those facts, because of the simple... economic growth that you predicted to 0.8% in plus.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2738	In this presentation, counterpart Marin Jurjevic wants to correct some allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2739	It is an incorrect allegation that fellow Matusic that the coalition government is going into public deception, and this whole performance has been a public deception, boasting that they have left power with great successes, jumping from below zero, a little to zero, so he has peeked all the way up to zero, and now he says that we have left you in a wonderful state of society while 80% of the citizens think that it has never lived worse. Instead of saying thank you for taking the job of trying to fix almost impossible, what we've ruined.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2740	That wasn't exactly a correct correction to the incorrect assumption, but that points to the fact that we have to change the Rules of Procedure. counterpart Igor Radinovic reported for a ten-minute debate. Excuse my colleague Rajenovic, I haven't seen a replica board here. Did you answer the line?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2741	I thought my colleague Matusic caused a little more reaction, but here we go. Well, I'm fascinated by my colleague when you talk about hitting the standard of Croatian citizens with these measures, I think Croatian citizens know very well when the impact on their standard occurs. These are now measures to address these damages that some previous governments have caused. I remember in the last session when VAT increased from 22% to 23%, there were a lot of stories in this Assembly, but it's fascinating that this VAT increase didn't help reduce deficits at the time. This budget preceding these measures today will be the first Croatian budget to work really to reduce deficits. As for GDP growth predicted by this today's government, you may not have had a good enough look at the budget, you have enough time until Monday, it is not included in the revenue side of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2742	Reply to the replica of counterpart Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2743	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so it is indeed your claim that 22% VAT increase from 22% to 23% did not help reduce the deficit. The deficit would have been significantly higher if it hadn't been for that tax hike, it would have been significantly higher. Thus, he absolutely consolidated the situation and with those taxes that you also called haraks managed to consolidate the financial situation despite an extremely difficult situation such as neither in the world nor in the European Union today. So that's one fact. Second, tax revenues rise from 61 billion kuna to 64.5 billion kuna. Secondly, you presented in the 2011 budget a plan when we talk about this budget, not the implementation in 2011 but the plan. And we know very well that the achievement was different from the plan. Therefore, we will have opportunities to discuss when the budget comes to the agenda next week. And the third thing I wanted to say, of course, today you're saying that the crisis is being imported from the European Union and the world, you're saying today, and when it really came from the European Union and the world, when it came to the Croatian economy, then that's what your colleague is saying, your former government has brought Croatia into this state. The former government has not brought Croatia into this state, it has just brought about a global crisis that has caused collapses in all EU countries. Only in the Member States of the European Union, only from the beginning of 2009 to the beginning of 2010, did they give from their budget 3,000 billion euros to save their banks that significantly burdened their budgets and their state, in just a year and a half, three thousand billion euros to save the banking system. And then you didn't say that it was a crisis from the European Union that spilled into Croatia, but you said it was a crisis in the Croatian economy. Today you have a chance, we've brought the economy back above 0 and you're going to bring it back above 0 again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2744	So, once again, with my colleague Radjenovic's apologies, I give him my word for a ten-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2745	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, maybe I should pick up where Mr. Matusic left off. Yes, you've led us to 16 million deficits, and this whole story and story actually starts with that 16 million budget deficit. Therefore, we have before us this tax-law change package whose effects are already in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2746	Please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2747	Whose effects are already embedded in the draft budget for next year. And what's important is what my colleague Vrbat said is that this investment that was often used in the debates on the other side and in your debate, a 0.8 increase is not included in the increase in income. On the other hand, inflation was not integrated, and this plan and the programme and the realization that you were talking about was even better than the plan, according to which the revenues were certainly not over-inflated. But let me get back to the subject. In fact, we have tired ourselves obviously through these figures, we have tired the Croatian public who is following us, although so far on boards at least those I have attended but also what I have seen in the media and in everything is a rather serious debate compared to some of the previous ones. I think that all segments of Croatian society are actually aware of the situation where we are both conscious and clear that this is no longer going on and that one significant turn and turn in the trend that existed all these previous years is actually necessary. I said today on the Committee on Economy a tanker that's been sailing in the wrong direction for years is pretty hard to reverse these fifty days, but we'll do everything we can to get that job that we got ahead of him... our government to try to get him to the end. The entire professional public expected cuts. The preconditions for cuts in the budget itself, the preconditions for reducing deficits are here before us, the only difference in these reactions to both the professional public and the international rating houses, and here we have whether they should have cut harder or should have done so at this level, or perhaps they are too difficult. Now from what we're saying when we're pulling numbers out I'd like to appeal that there's still a lot more in the discussion that we're still holding on to the projections, and they're writing everything. There would be a lot of corrections to incorrect allegations, everything is written in government materials, and it would still be good for our professionals who calculated it to believe the figures and stick to those figures. The goals around which we do not actually have a dispute were unique, which is the basis for this tax package that some call "mini reform" even though it is objectively not. They were fiscal consolidation, so the reduction of this deficit we talked about, the retention of the position on the international capital market, and what is crucial is the creation of a basis for the development of the economy. The key was the introduction that from the income position and there was no increase compared to the previous year. The revenue of the budget is now actually... citizens ultimately all the revenue of the budget and the entire budget of the full citizens. But what is the difference between often mentioned clearly two years ago in a time of far greater crisis than Mr. Matusic said, although that is not true, then the VAT increase and then the crisis tax that you very often forget and which is much harder hit by the personal standard of citizens. The difference in these and these relations is that today's measures that we take and changes in the structure of income are not just about income and the increase in expenditure and the increase in deficits, just the other way around. It's not the path that was that way, so the budget deficit went up to a two-digit level of the budget itself, but it's in the other direction. And that's the difference that we carry among ourselves, and that's the redistribution that we differ about and that's the eye that we don't run away from. The redistribution of the burden from the economy to consumption. Gross wages, reinvested profits, abolishing contributions for new employees after a year, today's announced water contribution, forests, monumental rent as part of the package from today's cabinet session. Isn't that a redistribution of the burden, and I say it's a burden of all 110 million kunas of budget revenue, whether it's a redistribution of the burden from the economy to the constant consumption, whether it's fairer and if it's not the difference between us, the difference is that it's redistributed to those with smaller incomes to citizens who still have higher incomes, isn't that the consequence of these proposals in income tax that we have 750 thousand winners and that mathematics there is and I don't know why we talked some other numbers of counterpart Bačić if I'm not wrong. 750 thousand winners, therefore, who will have higher incomes after the realisation of this tax and 450 thousand losers, but citizens with higher incomes, are not reduced VAT rates to basic living needs redistributed in this direction. Finally redistributed with those who live off their work with those who live off their capital. Isn't that dividend tax with a standard profit tax of twenty percent and a dividend tax which is 12% on it, if it's not exactly the same or almost the same tax burden as some middle-class salaries in the Republic of Croatia which is therefore if we respect these tax classes roughly at that level. But we had in mind, of course, the government as a proponent of the difference between small and large and so that all those who are below 12 thousand kuna would not actually be taxed up to 12 thousand kunas of individual dividends. And on that side, small shareholders have nothing to worry about. As regards VAT and the use of cars and representations, etc. I must admit that I have been fascinated by figures and indeed quite large in billions the number of evacs that on this side are entrepreneurs or quasi entrepreneurs used as a way to make their private consumption, and is it not fairer that this private consumption in restaurants and cars that we drive in private cost equal to the one we have and which we do not have, especially given that this is part of and the EU directive that we somehow had to apply in a few months. That path that we have chosen this way towards getting closer to the balance of income and expenditure and the reduction of deficits is not easy. It is clear that with the structural problems we have and here we will agree on health pensions around everything else that the path is not simple that the way out of the crisis is long-term so that we do not speculate on how long it takes us to bring certain economic indicators into positive trends. But it is clear that, and this is our path that we have chosen, that the only way to increase income is to dissipate the economy, to fight for every job that will then, through the aggregate growth of the economy, the real sector, will be able to balance the budget and some better days for all of our citizens. Isn't that exactly the Law on profit tax that one of this package of laws is, therefore, a relief for investment profits, isn't that exactly the way HBOR recapitalisation 500 million kunas made these days so that here you can already by 1 percentage point reduce credits by small and medium entrepreneurship. Is it not on that path to raise the limit for entering the VAT system to 230 thousand kuna, is it not on that path to raise the VAT limit for small entrepreneurs to 800 thousand kuna, so on a quarterly basis, etc. Obviously that change and prerequisite for... for the salvation of Croatia, for the redness... [[You don't understand.]] , it obviously took a lot of courage and responsibility and the government of the Republic of Croatia and all of us to bring, to create preconditions for getting out of the crisis. [[You don't understand.]] Obviously, the prerequisite for a quality budget is these tax laws, and it is obviously a quality budget that will allow the economy to lift this revenue side the only way for Croatia to go to those routes, not to say the famous one by Mrs Kosor, so the way we have promised the citizens and which in the past 4 years, and I believe we will achieve in the next 4 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2748	On this exhibit, we have one correction to the incorrect quote and two replicas. First of all, the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, it is incorrect that you did not take the base of this 2012 budget to increase GDP by 0.8%. Yes, it is your projection because if you took projections that economic analysts... and also the CNB that says that there will be at least 0.2% decline this year to those who say that there will be over 1% in GDP minus then you would clearly know that the deficit will certainly be significantly, significantly greater than you are projecting for 2012. And when you talk about taxes, say it clearly, companies and citizens will have to bring a new 3.5 billion kuna to the state budget in 2012, 3.5 billion kuna. You'll take that to companies and citizens who'll have to put it into the budget. That's the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2750	Replica, first of all, colleague Gyurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Rajenovic, I'll start with this last one of yours to walk the paths you promised. And the government has made no promise to the kukuriku of what you're doing now because if you had promised it, believe me, we wouldn't be on the occasion now that in this way you're talking like this, you've already cheated on the people of course. And one more thing, you're talking about a tanker, so you see you come from Holding that might call Titanic Croatia, Titanic City of Zagreb, so if this is your explanation today, according to all this science in Holding, then, dear Croatian peoples, prepare your life-saving belts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2752	Second replica, colleague Đuro Popioč.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2753	Mr. Vice President. Thus, an esteemed colleague said that the direct increase in the tax press is a direct basis for the development of the economy. So if we interpret what you have said that this is all the basis for successful economic development I have neither in practice nor in theory have I seen that the increase in tax presses that are definitely going on here will have a beneficial or beneficial effect on the growth of competitiveness and on the growth of the economy. Most directly, it can rarely be recorded somewhere that such a difficult blow is precisely the economy as it is given here by these four anti-enterprise laws set out in the Croatian economy, such an example is not found in history or in the world. The increase in VAT rates will definitely contribute to price rises, a decrease in consumption and an increase in the necessary liquid assets for Croatian entrepreneurs to resuscitate VAT because we know how VAT is paid. So many non-enterprise rhetorics have not been heard for so long, so speak the same way that entrepreneurs do not live from work and you mentioned that the tax press will be reduced to work and increased to capital. The dividend tax is tax to entrepreneurs and businessmen. So do you think that really entrepreneurs and businessmen don't belong to the category of people who work. They work, Mr. Representative, bloody, hard, often misleading everything they have, working day and night and endangering their lives and, of course, their family. These are today's entrepreneurs, and these very entrepreneurs and those businessmen will be further taxed by this unfair additional profit tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2754	We will also hear the reply to the replica of counterpart Igor Radenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2755	Well, here I must admit that obviously the Croatian Association of Employers and Entrepreneurs disagreed with you because on yesterday's GSV, and the trade unions on the other hand supported the measures of this government and supported the path it took. What I was saying, and here I will repeat what it is to relieve entrepreneurship, if it is not to lower the gross labour price through health insurance contributions, so 2%, if it is not to cut the profit tax for invested profits, if it is not to allow new employees and those who come from the stock market after two years, and that they do not pay any contributions, if it is not to abolish... the water contribution, contributions for forests, monumental rents, if it is not all about the redundancies of the economy, and what I was saying and what you've been saying about the car and the restaurant that was actually used in the most part... /The noise in the hall./... The numbers are a billion and 300 million, so I don't make a mistake now, one and a billion 200, help the finance ministers. Is this really helping some large Croatian automotive industry that unfortunately does not exist, etc. ... It won't save, but a billion 300 and a billion 500 means a lot, the equality of Croatian citizens... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2756	Dude Drinker, don't throw it out of the bench. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Jovo Vuković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2757	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to say a few words about this whole package of laws because a lot is said in replicas, in discussions, in everything else that is. I come from the economy and I know how the economy is and how we do business and what we do to survive and keep jobs. I also want to believe that this package of laws that we are currently discussing will bring new investments, that it will bring new jobs. We're not happy and I'm not happy about the increase in VAT to 25%. However, if the VAT increase to 25% of the tax proposal changes and the addition of the Profit Tax Act, the proposal to amend and supplement the final proposal of the Income Tax Act will bring new investments that you believe have practically stopped in the Republic of Croatia if there are no new investments, if there are no new increases, new values, if no new employment is going to be all right. I'd like to stick to the proposal of the Income Tax Act. The government has today made a certain decision to improve certain structures related to local self-government units. I hope it will be balanced because there are small units of local self-government that simply cannot survive unless it can be helped. I also appeal to the Ministry of Finance and to everyone else who can make everything we can find in the budget reserve, we ironed it as much as we could, to make investments. I want to believe that this is the first package of laws to bring new investments to the Republic of Croatia and new jobs. We'll see his reflection in six, seven, eight months what's going to happen. Also on all committees today there was a budget and most of the time, 99% of the time, it went through. I want to believe that we will pass new laws that will bring new investors because we have a lot of laws here that do not attract but reject investors. And that's not good. We must simply try to change when it comes to building permits which is to attract investors, to look into the budget if we can find anything else to run the investment cycle. This release of the economy from certain contributions, taxes, will certainly contribute to that. How much the VAT will contribute, we'll see. So I just think we need to look at what to do. This is the first package of new government. The SDSS club will support it and we believe it will bring results to new jobs. If there is a need for some other changes, we hope that they will go only in the direction of employment, and certainly not in the direction of some other things. People want to know how they're gonna get a job, how they're gonna get paid, how they're gonna stay so they can survive. And all the other stories are for something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2758	Thank you. The next in line for the debate is distinguished representative Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2759	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There's actually more or less said today, although a few false things have been said, so I might look back at them in this debate that was originally conceived in a completely different way. Maybe I'd start by increasing the overall VAT rate and introducing a step-by-step. Some fellow workers expressed great concern about Croatian breast-feeding and the future of Croatian generations, and in the sense that the government is introducing an inter-step on children's food and on products of animal fat and fat. If you look at the bill then you will see clearly that you are not suggesting a way of breastfeeding, but that you are really introducing steps and reliefs for the fastest layers of the population. Some of their colleagues said that they never brought anything between them. In fact, the question can also be asked why certain rates have not been introduced until we have started to coordinate the zero VAT rate or because of which they have not increased until the end because we have already had VAT rates such as accommodation services in tourism, accommodation services, half board and pensions. So this package expands further, it expands between steps. Also related to the general VAT rate and its impact on the economy. The other day we had the opportunity to hear that actually with this revenue charge in terms of budgeting that it actually amounts to 2.4 billion kuna for the economy, which in order to illustrate at all how much we collect in the Croatian budget that this is actually the total amount of interest on the annual investment of the business sector that last year amounted to 45 billion kuna. As far as we're concerned, if we're already talking about the whole package, maybe we could get off the taxes on... on income tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to income tax, although some colleagues have equally advocated the introduction of interdepartment, the fact is that this is the first time since we have this law to introduce the rate of taxation and that this is the first time we have introduced a fairer model and we are disabling further personal wealth for individuals. So it's being introduced... a model of taxation of high personal capital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Looking at a whole package of these tax reforms, we can also say something about benefits for small shareholders, i.e. relief for all those who have small incomes such as changes in the flat-rate income tax. And, of course, it has already been mentioned on several occasions, but it is not burning and stressed, and it should be properly communicated to the Croatian public, it is not true that nothing has happened to the fastest layers of society because if 800 thousand workers and craftsmen and 200 thousand pensioners are not the widest layers of society, then I really don't know what they are. So there was a dispute here whether this is a real budget or whether it's a neoliberal one. In any case, I think that this is an optimal combination of measures to preserve social policy, reconciliation of fiscal and monetary policy, and this is how the proposed tax package actually achieves what we are seeking, and this is fiscal consolidation, in terms of its implications for the budget that we are going to discuss on Monday, to contribute to a reduction in labour prices, therefore, by thus increasing the competitiveness of the economy by injecting a certain injection into the economy and having its social objectives. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2760	We have one replica, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2761	So only the replica, when it comes to statements and these rates on their movement, projections say that this will achieve a budget reduction of 340 million kuna, so the total of what colleagues have pointed out now, so I would say that what is not in the projections is that, by 340 million kuna, that tax discharge over income tax will reduce the income of local self-government units that are coming out of it. This is not in any way reflected in the budget and how this will reflect on all adopted budgets of units of local administration, especially those of low wages, which are precisely in those underdeveloped parts of Croatia which otherwise have fewer budgets and lower salaries. That's the part that we pointed to and we didn't get an answer, and now we're looking back on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2762	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Melita Mulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2763	He's giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2764	Then we proceed with an individual debate, an esteemed colleague named Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2765	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary, Deputys and Assistants. First of all, I think we'll all agree that the citizens were never happy and rich or easy when the rates of taxes were raised, I think it's a fact that you don't have to close your eyes and admit it. However, only one law has not been proposed here, here is the proposed package of laws. In their presentations, Ministry representatives explained why it is necessary to do so and I think citizens understand that. In addition to the Value Added Tax Act, a whole set of other laws has been proposed which, nevertheless, the impact on the standard of citizens has tried to make as easy, more comfortable as possible, if no one else, at least those areas of citizens who are in the most difficult socioeconomic status. This is most visible from income tax, which has tried to relieve those with the lowest incomes. My colleague now pointed out in his replica that none of us are talking about 340 million less income from the income tax base. Dear fellow, if you have studied the documentation there you have seen an increase of 290 million income from the capital base because the position of both this majority and our government is that, in addition to working in the Republic of Croatia, there is a need to tax both capital and our court in the same way, except for 20% in profit tax and here with 12% in income tax on capital, which will equal the total amount of the circus 32% with the average tax burden of the circus 33% in the income tax. I really don't see why you think it's not fair, which is why you don't think it should be done. So much for income tax. We've talked a lot about value added tax here, and I'm not going to say what my esteemed colleagues used to say before me, but I'm going to point out a little bit, and that's what we've been talking about most lately, and these are personal cars. Until recently I worked as a lawyer, and as such I was in a very absurd situation that the state had more fees on me and rewarded me more if I bought an expensive Mercedes car, a BMW, or something like that than if I hired a worker. I, as a lawyer who did business under the Law of Trade, was much cheaper to buy a car that would cost me far less than a citizen than to hire a worker, and that is exactly why I have to support these measures proposed by the Government. On the other hand, I will be free from here to invite the government to send us measures to encourage the employment of new workers as soon as possible, to encourage the self-employment of our citizens. Because only this measure of course isn't enough. Furthermore, in this package of laws we have a question of compulsory health insurance. It has not been pointed out enough in my opinion to reduce the maximum participation of citizens in hospital or treatment accounts, it is a very important measure, from 3,000 to 2,000 kuna, the maximum participation is reduced. On the other hand, it is clear to me that people are not happy that the border is rising from 30 to 50 kilometers for cost compensation, but again here we have also provided for amendments today that this fee is exempt from the charge, at least to try to save those citizens who are in the most difficult economic situation. Here my colleagues have spoken a lot before me and I won't repeat myself and I'll just say that I think these measures are necessary, perhaps the citizens won't be the easiest but contrary to what we heard from the opposition today, the fact is that citizens are more than ever aware that the Republic of Croatia is in crisis, and not much smaller than it was a year or two ago, although in some segments and larger. And that when we find ourselves in such a crisis we need radical and determined steps out of it and that's exactly what I think with these measures that the government is proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2766	Thank you. The replica of counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2767	Although read, capital income of 290 million kuna, it is only a question of where it will go and how it will be distributed, it will no longer be distributed in the same way in Croatia as income from income tax. It will be distributed differently, and the budgets of the county, municipalities and cities have already been adopted, based on planned income from income tax, so that it will no longer be distributed in the same way. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2768	Answer to the replica Mr. Pedja Grbin's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2769	Thank you. As I was saying earlier, the government has sent a bill that regulates the funding of local self-government units and provides that exactly what you said will not be distributed in the same way as before, most of it will belong to local self-government units. So I have to say you're really right, it's not gonna be the same as it was before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2770	Thank you. For a debate of 10 minutes, the distinguished representative Nevenka Bečić also applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2771	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to draw attention to the content of the Proposal for a Final Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act, however, I must point out that yesterday on the Committee on Finance and the Budget of all the remarks that I made with pleasure I can conclude that our Government has now been amended and respected. However, since I was given the right to speak, I will still point out for the economics and the area from which I come, which I have mentioned and that I have read this proposal of the final law with additions and amendments to the Income Tax Act. According to the proposal itself, the base of the profit tax will be reduced by the amount of profits entered into the base capital of the taxpayer or company. Therefore, for which the recapitalisation of that company is carried out. However, there was uncertainty, and in a way that it was said that the tax administration responsible for the control of the taxpayer, if it considered that there was a recapitalisation for the reason that the taxpayer would reduce his income tax, it was very vague and could have been misused in what way the tax authority would interpret what this means to be misuse and to which the taxpayer was made, or what, and so that entrepreneurs could do by entering the basic capital of the company without being characterised by the tax authority as those who did so in the tax evasion of profits. And here I am pleased to say and to conclude that, through the amendment, the Government corrected it, so it added point 6. Where he says it will be considered not tax evasion if it is spent on reinvested profits. With the government here explaining what is meant by that reinvested profit. And it is very good that it is done now through amendments so that taxpayers, legal persons and professional services which in these legal entities work without stress can solve their daily problems in business, and that they have a precise indication of what and how the competent tax authority will characterise and how. Furthermore, I also drew attention to what I also see as being accepted by the Government here through the amendments, which is that in the final text of the amendment and supplementing the Income Tax Act, it was said that the payment of dividends would be taxed and the share in profits achieved since 2001 and beyond. I believe that this is not correct and that in this way all those entrepreneurs and businessmen and legal persons who had retained the profit they had taxed in the legal person and from these retained profits were making investment investments, opening jobs and creating added value for the company in question, thus creating benefits for the wider social community. With this bill of law as he had previously stated they would have been punished. However, yesterday I also pointed out this detail on the Committee on Finance and Budget and I am pleased, our Government has accepted this and it is here in the amendment that we just received on the table, stating that this profit will be paid in dividends and the share in profits that is entered into the underlying capital is also exempt from paying the income tax of 12%. According to the previous text, as the payment of such retained profits was stated, it would be subject to dividend tax and a 12% increase in profits for the corresponding tax. Now it's fixed. However, I must also point out that if we go back to history that from 2001 to 2004, the Income Tax Act, which prescribed that payment be obtained after tax on shareholders, also tax the owners also with income tax and a corresponding tax. From 1 January 2005 until today, it has been put out of force, the law has experienced changes and profits after tax was done to owners without paying income tax. Of course, now this final proposal to amend and supplement it is changing again. Introducing income tax 12% increased by a corresponding cut. Looking at the whole situation in our environment, it is also understandable that our government is looking for a way out of this crisis recession and a way of increasing the revenue side of the state budget. I accept that. However, no farmer or owner would be satisfied if he was taxed on the profits he had earned in the previous years on which the legal person paid the profit tax, he did not raise it because he invested further, and now, as a punishment for his investment, these penals should also come. that tax on dividends and share in profits. It was corrected by this amendment, so this way I thank the government for having understanding of this part of our population as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2772	Thank you. Next in line for the debate is dear colleague Bozidar Kalmeta. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic, there is no care either. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. The esteemed representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2773	Dear Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will refer to the draft law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act because I will not talk about those other laws because here are my fellow Labourists and we will not repeat ourselves in the section where we have clear identity thinking. When it comes to amending the Health Insurance Act, then I have to say that in this particular case we give a little but we take a lot. When we talk about this part of what we do little about the offered solution looks like a significant financial share because it's said to reduce the share in the highest part of what users pay for bills to use health services from 90.2% to 60.13% or in a more specific case it means from 3,000 kuna to 2 thousand kuna. This seems to be a significant financial part of the eye, but we must bear in mind that the biggest healthcare provider has additional health insurance and that they do not pay that part of the costs but they are covered by additional health insurance. The smaller part probably and more often does not use the doctor’s services, and there is no great cost within it to give. But also a concrete solution that is good, it is positive and in any case an improvement is, but I don't think the overall financial effects are great based on that solution. The other solution that we as the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party clearly do not support, which is a solution where the border is moving from 30 km to 50 km in terms of the recognition of transport costs and on this point will be hit by a large number of users of health care services who, both for their social situation, small incomes, especially those citizens in rural areas, environments that do not have the opportunity to use certain services and search but will have to go and travel, but will not be covered by transport costs. According to some calculations, there are some savings of about 50 million kuna, and these will be effects based on what will not be recognised as transport costs. Of course, the majority of the social groups, that's the part of the vulnerable citizens who are jobless, who are located at the Employment Service, 334 thousand unemployed, pensioners, I said earlier, and farmers, will be affected in the majority by that part of the amendments to the law. When we talk about health insurance then the budget provides for less funds for 740 million kuna. Cost reduction as I said in this part of 50 million kuna related to transport costs falling from 245 million to 195 million kuna. But what needs to be said in particular, and this is the issue of reducing the rate 15% to 13% of which will benefit only employers, and less will have an economy as stated in the material, with my personal thinking and thinking enough of us is that nothing will increase competitiveness with this move, not even increased employment. Practically, employers will use that money for other purposes. The workers won't feel it clearly on their salaries either. Clearly, the smaller resources available to healthcare are threatened somewhere by one particular danger for 4 million 363,000 users who could clearly be denied for part of their health care services because of the lack of funds. We already have a situation that a lot of hospitals are in a bad financial situation. The reduction in the budget by 800 million kuna in health care will take a really magical wand to keep the health care healthy, and I fear that in the finality of this move, which according to health insurance users to reduce the right to travel expenses, could be broken in further steps against the back of the user. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2774	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear colleague Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2775	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I would like to conclude that the proposer, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, made one replacement of the thesis and a dangerous replacement of the thesis, replaced the cause and effect, so the cause of our problems in Croatia is not a poor charge of the state budget, so that is the consequence. The poor filling of the state budget is, of course, the result of the real cause, and the cause is a weak Croatian economy, damaged by the crisis, the weak private sector, and in this sense is actually concerned by some of today's debates which are obvious that some in this Croatian Parliament do not understand how important the private sector is for our future and for our economy. Raise VAT by 2 percentage points will certainly have bad and dangerous consequences, three of which. The first bad, extremely bad and dangerous consequences, which is that, of course, in the middle of the crisis in some way instead of trying to get back from the gray zone as many entrepreneurs as possible and charge more taxes in that way, so we're actually going to raise taxes and tax burdens to increase the gray zone, which is certainly not the goal. The second one is certainly a new blow to the middle layer and the collapse of consumption, and for Croatia to become a production and export-oriented society, so the economy will certainly take many years. In the end and in fact, the most dangerous consequence of this VAT hike will be the further collapse of the economy, so first of all, given that the crisis and the European and world economic crisis have led Croatian entrepreneurs to a decline in income, while competition in the Croatian markets is of course growing, not falling, and since the good part of Croatian entrepreneurs is still not sufficiently export-competitive then it can be easy to actually happen in particular in some sectors that there is no price hike at all. What does that mean? If you have increased the tax press, and entrepreneurs do not raise the price, this means that it will go directly to their cost, the cost of the margin or profit. Both margin and profit is something without which no entrepreneur can survive, can invest, can't hire, and in fact a key goal I believe, however, is primarily new employment, so the growth of economic activity that has one of the key goals of employment growth. It should also be noted here for all of us, and it is of course that I personally want, because of all Croatian citizens, that rating agencies respect our efforts, that they retain our credit rating and that creditors also perceive the real situation, but the problem is next. So everything, both rating agencies and our creditors understand very well that by raising taxes, you haven't launched structural reforms and actually understand that such a situation in which taxes and tax returns are actually increasingly rising in a way leads in a completely wrong direction. I wouldn't be hitting on words like the Greek script right now, but that certainly isn't the direction we want to go. And in the end there remains one open question, and this is Kukuriku's coalition in the pre-election campaign as well as after the government announced that you will be more effective in managing state property and that you will raise the level of efficiency of the public administration. The public administration is indeed very important both for the private sector and for the progress of the entire economy. So continuing the investment cycle, encouraging and attracting foreign investors encourages the economy. So it remains an open question, or perhaps, in fact, it is also clear that it is simply a matter of uncertainty or certainty that it will not all come true. Because if that's the case, then there's no easy need to raise the VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2776	Thank you. We've got two other MPs on individual hearings. I give my word to my colleague, Boris Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a lot is said today, exhausted are I would say all the arguments and objections and positions regarding this, and it is clear that as Mr Vinkovic said on behalf of the HDSSB club that we will, therefore, support these laws in part. It is the fact that the proposal of the Law on Value Added Tax will be against it. Why not? Well, it's already said here that an increase in VAT to say it from 23% to 25%, which is when you take that number from 23, then somewhere around 8.5% in the total mass of that tax, leads to the fact that that argument that stands is actually one disastrous, which is that it's actually done because of the reduction in the contribution to health insurance that is to be borne or paid by the employer or employers to be some sort of substitute. Now that we take the fact that employers in the name of taxes and in the name of contributions have accumulated so far someone has said 46 billion kuna, someone has said 50 billion kuna. What is the guarantee that what I am earning to say or to be an increase in the cash mass on VAT will be used in what Mr. Minister and Government say will encourage, in fact, reduce the labour price and boost the economy. If by now we have such a thing to say slightly said financial non-discipline, so I would say and immoral, if 46 billion were accumulated, here's one sum that I think today is what Lesar said, a colleague of Lesar, 46 billion kuna, it's almost, not nearly 40% of Croatia's budget for this year. So, what are the guarantees? What are the guarantees that it will be exactly and who can order it or we can just as we often say very often, wish it would be directed towards the development of the economy, into investment because the price of work has been reduced. So, all the citizens who will pay this increased VAT which is btw or as I said on the way second in Europe after Hungary has 27%, Croatia is second with 25% with VAT, so all citizens in the price of the article will pay exactly that something imaginary that is not measurable and impossible to control where that money is going to be, and it is said that it will be a substitute for those 2% payments to HZZO for health insurance, let's say... that the currents or flows of money are impossible to control. Furthermore, when we talked about these interrelationships as well as the products which are referred to as those that will go into intersteps because there are reliefs for those to say poorer, which is already mentioned sugar and water, then oil, milk, scientific magazines, tourist services, etc. which is already listed, then we ask ourselves, and when we are talking about this business honesty here you can see business honesty now when you just come to buy these items that are listed as those that will go to intersteps already have the prices raised. So, they're already getting to the point now that actually reduced VAT so in the meantime that actually I'd say almost I'd like to take a margin instead, is that nothing else. And what did we get? Nothing. What did the citizens get? Nothing. What's their relief? Nothing. When it comes to this debt in terms of tax evasion and contributions, I am in the debate here for this speaker and I suggested that it come to certain government regulations or write off interest, and that the principal should be clearly and loudly defined and paid so that at least any damage should be avoided, or at least to some extent avoid such catastrophic damage as 46 billion kuna. It is clear that out of these 46 billion kunas, if there were no flexibility in agreements or in government regulations that the damage would be far greater than if it could be agreed that at least the principal would be paid, even if it were said for wars or for some period of time that would be reasonable to prevent at least a part of it. What prevented the tax inspection and other institutions of the Croatian state and Croatian government from allowing this debt of 46 billion kuna? Did it happen to anyone? Was that a chosen society? I wouldn't go into it, but clearly it can't go on and on and on. When it comes to, and since it's the material that covered 4, 5 mandatory health insurance laws, then it's more than clear that it's working she'd say a Balkan saying how much money there is in the music. So it's also a 2% reduction and then it's not 8% more of what you're talking about VAT, but it's 14% less because 2 in 15 is 7, so 7 in 100 is 14% less contribution to health insurance than it was before. So from 15 to 13% is actually 14% less money. Is it thought that health care can really endure, and we know well that both European and world health every year produces and new methods, and more expensive medicines, and more expensive materials and everything else. I would love to, believe me, that I would like that what's being drawn up so that health services remain on the same level as they are now, because Croatian health care is excellent health care. That's good health care. And that with this amount of money that's supposed to happen here. But what they say, we'll see in a few months, in six months we'll see how our hospitals and our overall health care will stand. Besides, we know very well what a long hospital and HZZO is. These are the debts of the suppliers. Believe me, there are few suppliers who mourn the purpose of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance or Hospitals. No, I don't. Why does someone owe 360 days for drugs? Don't let them sue anyone. Then there is one who is in favour, and one who may be among the others, lest it be a cause for complaint. Well, we know that the pharmaceutical industry and the world and the wholesales and everyone else is working. This should be settled to 0, start from the beginning and set the frameworks in healthcare that should be respected, and there is room in health care for certain savings. I said that the HDSSB Club and I will personally, and since my bright reds can no longer discuss all this except the VAT Act, they support these other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2778	The desire to replicate this basic exhibition is expressed by counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2779	Thank you. Here, you have well noticed fellow Grubisic that the government cannot, does not find a way to charge 46 or some, says 43 billion kuna of tax debt, there is no way to collect allegedly 9 billion kunas of debt for concessions for the extraction of gravel that remain, but the only way to raise some VAT increase. As for the reduction in the contribution to health care, we all know and we have noticed that this deficit in that system is always about a billion kuna per year minimum. That's why HZO remains in the treasury for another year because the Treasury will again cover the deficit that will occur at the end of the year. We heard today at the club that, on one board, the plan is to further reduce health contributions through the introduction of property taxes planned from next year. That's one new piece of information we heard from the assistant secretary on the board. All in all, I don't believe that health care in this area will be able to finance with this amount as planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2780	We will also hear the reply to the replica of his colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2781	Thank you. Comrade Djurovic, thank you very much for this replica. In fact, it's not just a pebble to say "mine-rich" even though we don't think of it as "ore" anything that's being dug underground, but gravel is something else, but it's mine-rich by definition. We have in Croatia a lot of such mining treasures, starting with calcite and most valuable calcite sites, perhaps parliamentary representatives don't know, is in Brod-Posavina County in the Pokkkalalje Calcite Municipality, which is written in the Department of Mines of the Ministry of Economy being conducted under PV, a special value. Unfortunately, there's been an exploitation without a concession. Billion cc's of calcite were released from that site. Where it went, who went, it's not mine, but Bajic's to question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2782	Thank you very much. Next, a ten-minute debate was held by a representative of the respected Branko Juričev-Martinchev. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2783	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It is interesting now to listen to fellow rulings who were in second position in July 2009 and hold in hand the minutes they then said when the VATs increased from 22% to 23%. Then there was no saying that it was an increase of one percent, but even 5% as it is. That's 5% more tax than it was before. Now no one's saying that the increase from 23% to 25% is an increase of 8 and a half percent. It turns out it's now a much lower increase. Then it was said that de facto this measure would only bury its tax base. He says, so we in the short term over two months will, given the effect that happens immediately, have something better to charge. But within a little longer time, there will be a decline, people will be spending less and less, there will be fewer offers and production, and we will not say that consumer pessimism in people when price increases will be such that they will decide that time will be as important as possible for saving. They also stressed that VAT and budgeting were vice-proportional. Now the minister of formerly Mrs Vesna Pusic's parliamentary representative had major objections that such a law is being passed in an emergency procedure, and now we are doing the same, now it is not and it is not being brought into force as she then said on Saturday, but will now come into force and start applying the second Thursday. Maybe it's something bigger. Also, our former prime minister spoke and negotiated with all those who should raise prices, appealed to them and urged them not to do so. We also listen to these days, and despite all this, the same ruling party tells us in materials that this law in 9 months 2012 will increase the revenues of the state budget by around 2 and a half billion kuna. What is looking forward to in this record, and it would be very good if already in these amendments and additions to the law the attitude and opinion of a colleague, Ingrid, who says and points out as a major problem that VAT is paid in paid accounts. And I agree, and now that problem is even 8.5% bigger and harder. Namely, all those who want to apply to any tender under the Public Procurement Act must have all the outstanding debts and liabilities to the State, and we know what about the bills they have been issued, how long it takes for them to be charged. All this means is that we're actually getting even more into our entrepreneur's pocket and that he actually has to allocate 2% of his net income for this new measure. Since this is a high date for March 1st, when it is already starting to apply, we need to know the same thing about what will happen in tourism. In fact, the government programme says we will bring competitive taxes precisely because we could compete best on the market when selling our capacities. This is a catastrophic tax coup and tourism. We're in the middle of the biggest promotional activity for a season full of suspense. We know that there is also a recession weakened period abroad, and the time ahead certainly does not promise much, nor does it allow us to raise that column from 23% to 25% on March 1st. I therefore appeal to be reviewed once again, it is commendable that tourism will reduce the rate from 1 January 2013, but now for all guests who announce their arrival and, compared to 2011, we know that more than 10 million guests were in Croatia, all together awaiting a big surprise. The same should be considered in view of the fact that there are 16 thousand hosts who are going to be cut off in this way as I said, or with 2% of their net income coming into this VAT and in these expected 2.5 billion kunas, or it will surprise our guest what we will feel in the season of 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2784	Thank you very much. And finally on behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada Club, Mr Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I volunteered for these five minutes because I also believe that this is an extremely important topic that directly, quite directly affects all Croatian citizens especially those who live from their work and do not live God knows how. All the new taxes and variations of taxes that have been proposed, which we have discussed here today, are flawed because they are unfair, they are unfair because they are not progressive, there are no fair and fair taxes that are not progressive, the tax is the one that is paid more by the one who has more. If the profit tax rate is 12%, then 12% is the same for a man who makes 100 thousand kunas a year and 100 million. Now let someone explain to me how it's honestly very difficult. The increase in value added tax is, in fact, in some ways, the alimony of this reduction in health contributions as the minister said what he wrote finally in the explanation and how you will. It doesn't just give unfairly, it's a direct insolence of pulling money out of the pockets of all citizens and moving into the pocket of those who say the president of the Employers' Association have become a burden to us around our necks. Do you think this man who says that will open new jobs with those money and receive new workers? So it is a burden around his neck for God's sake, and he will put that money in his pocket, and he will remain in his pocket, so he will go into that pocket where there is plenty of it. The contribution to healthcare will be reduced and will not, it will not in any way affect patients' rights, the minister said. The next law we have here is one of the laws in this package is the Mandatory Health Insurance Act where those 30 kilometers that don't pay for transportation extend to 50 km. The network covers Croatia, health institutions, specialists are on every corner there is no need for people to be paid, unless we listen to the Ombudsman for people with disabilities who gave us a memo where she says it's terrible, because the people she cares about in rural areas are poor, so that with paid transportation they can hardly afford to leave specialists now they won't be able to afford it at all. It's a new social justice, it's the same rule that's not neoliberal but that's kind of different, I don't know exactly what it's called. What's the point of getting all this stuff on a bunch of people asking themselves what the government and state are for? Whether those who voted for such power or those who took advantage of this past and each other, it is quite clear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2786	Thank you very much. We have concluded and completed a debate by clubs and a debate of 10 minutes individual representatives. Before asking a representative of the Government of Finance Minister Slavko Linic, it may be possible to declare before the Deputy Minister of Health whether he accepts the proposed amendments to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act established by the Committee on Legislatives. Can you plead to the Committee's amendments if it accepts them?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2787	Here, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, we declare that we accept the proposed amendment. In the name of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2788	Thank you very much, we understand. Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister of Finance for final exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2789	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, thank you for the debate, thank you and for the proposal for a series of amendments so that tomorrow, during the legislator's election, we will declare amendments as you have seen the discussions on the committees and the proposals that have come have resulted in certain government amendments. I just want to repeat briefly, this whole package has only been made for one reason why the government can actively affect the crisis and the negative consequences of the crisis. During the debate there was a special debate on the rate of economic growth. And when we look at economic analysts from Croatia and outside Croatia, almost none of them said the growth rate would be positive. Everyone said 0.3 to 1.5%. And these are the assessment of the fate of the Croatian economy for 2012. A year based on economic analysts. Which was handled by these analysts when they estimated that it would happen to us. First of all, they were in charge of the crisis in Europe. The other side has a three-year negative trend in investment consumption, enormous problems in the liquidity of the Croatian economy and an increasing number of unemployed. Therefore, there is neither in Croatia nor outside the Croatian person who estimated that 2012 will be the year of economic stability, economic growth. No, it's the opposite negative consequences. Faced with such analyses with such a perspective for 2012 the Government can say with its hands cut, and what we can or can be active in its policy. And that is why we have approached the amendments to the legal rules to fight for the competitiveness of the Croatian economy to return them to investment and employment of workers. It's just one measure. And that's why these changes in tax laws. In favour of that economy to change with a trend. But we also realize that important changes only with tax regulations and they will not be assessed that the battle for economic growth can be made more realistic in some way if we start a series of state investments, state investments. Which means we don't expect the private sector to start at risk and investment. Conversely, we say state investments in the part of the electricity industry, energy in the battle for different behaviour of INA in the section of the railways, the battle for building infrastructure, editing, quality of service provision on railways, alternative energy sources. That these are all investments that are not big for 2012 when we look at individual ones that can be realised, where the papers can be obtained, where they are not a problem or financial resources. Because thanks to the previous government, which is a good part of the contract, it concluded with investment institutions outside the country, such as the EBRD, the EIB, etc. And we have these funds for carrying out these investments. So it's possible, but there needs to be an effort by the administration and state-owned companies to actually realise these additional 8 billion state-owned investments. But 8 billion state investments mean opening up the investment activity market for Croatian companies as well. Since a good part of the funds comes from investment houses outside Croatia must go to competitions, they must face competitors outside who also lack enough work in their countries. They must be competitive. And these are the reasons where we say whether to wait for fate or vice versa, by active government policy to fight for these conditions of a more competitive Croatian economy, to open those investments and that is our optimism, there are our messages. Besides creating better conditions, it will allow you to start with a stronger investment cycle to finally turn negative trends into positive. And that's why the government's projection is the only positive. Because we commit ourselves as a government to active investment policy, to the battle that every Croatian company in infrastructure and energy in tourism starts to hire Croatian companies, to hire these workers. But in order to deal with that burden, we also need to train them with lower business costs. And that's that package tied to both sides. So the government's active desire that the negative trends that all of us are announcing are to try to show that they can be different if the government is active, if the government has a certain direction and if the government wants to be active in this process of battle for economic growth. A few words about the collection of contributions and taxes. Yeah, it's getting more and more of those who don't pay their dues, they're growing. They are huge amounts of whether they are not charged or vice versa and unpaid obligations of companies and individuals to the State or whether our claims have been converted into one-year delays or three-year delays. Yeah, everything. Even the government today suggested that we try again last year's non-discipline in payments by 31 January of this year again to support the government and extend to 36 months. Next week you'll be discussing the law. Yes, it's another kind of support to the economy in the battle for indifference. Irregular to all those who pay their taxes fairly. Again, we help those who are also unfair competition to many who are regular in their payments. But faced with a dilemma to sharpen because without a problem, it's possible to sharpen behavior, no problem. We're going to have an enormous number of warrants in the blockades and the bankruptcy openings because 42 billion mutual payment orders haven't been solved, no. And that's why we once again said let's support those who can't pay, aware that there are among them and those who shouldn't. I'm aware of that. But we still estimate that in the overall problem of indifference there is a mass of those who are not to blame for why they found themselves in it. And this is one of the last aids before we feel that we should really start cleaning the economy from the failures, from the incapacitated and essentially trying to save those who have the product, have a service and have a chance for the market, whether here or outside Croatia. The law will be before you, after the adoption of that law in about 30 days, the tax administration will try to accept all the requirements, but after that non-payment to the state or failure to comply with these contracts will indeed be sanctioned with blockades and bankruptcys. We believe that, by the end of April, we will be seriously discussing the Financial Business Act in the Republic of Croatia in two readings. This law will try to really consolidate, financial consolidation and structural consolidation of certain branches of the economy between debtors and non-judicial creditors in order to speed up the process. And that's basically a year ahead of us of the battle to recapture indifference. As you can see, we did not transfer the burden to the debtors and the believers, but to the debtors, the believers and the state, if there is any swear of claim. So we did not step back again, but the bill will actively participate in the battle for the resolution of the insolvency system in the Republic of Croatia. These are all the measures that show that indeed the trends planned for Croatia to be negative can also be positive, but which will also have serious, difficult consequences for individual branches of the economy, I would say certain companies. But in all of this, we will try to be both responsible and in some way priority-oriented to a job that has an excuse. Here's a thank you. I hope you will support a good part of this package because it comes this way before you I would say part by piece and it will really take time for us to solve the problems caused by the crisis and the negative consequences of the crisis this year. But the message of all these laws is the government will have an active and one of the most responsible roles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2790	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I find that there are no further requests for a hearing under these five draft laws. We will also vote on the bill's proposals and amendments when the conditions are met. I declare that we will now stop working and announce that we will begin tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Design and Fraction of the Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration. We're expecting you in large numbers. See you tomorrow. We are going to the next law Final proposal of the Law on Value Added Tax. We've got that amendment, too. SDP Representatives' Club of the Croatian Amendment on Article 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2792	So we're talking about Article 3 now. A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2794	It's unacceptable. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2795	We're listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2796	By Council Directive No 3/2007/EC of 25 June 2001 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1088/2006 (OJ L 335, 30.12.2006, p. 1). This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. 112 it is prescribed that the reduced tax rate on additional value can be applied to the supply of water, and therefore we have introduced such an expression into the text of the law and it is in line with the EU Directive. Therefore, in the event of a regulation that the value added tax at a reduced rate of wages on the supply of water services to public water supply and disposal, we note that in this case the reduced rate would be applied only to the supply of water via public water supply, which would have a particularly negative impact on those areas that do not yet have public water supply, and these areas are mainly supplied by tankers. And that would be an inequality among the people of Rijeka. Some of this proposal will be incorporated into the rules concerning the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2797	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Let's go to the next one. The Committee on Legislatives shall be referred to in Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2798	The Committee on Legislatives shall be referred to in Article 1. It's unacceptable. The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Legislative Office have requested that the provisions of compliance be laid down in the final proposal for a law in Article 2 as it has been done. Where they adopt a proposal from the Committee to lay down compliance provisions in Article 1 and thus establish that the provisions are in accordance with Council Directive No. 2006/112 at that moment we would find inaccuracies for the reason that the Law on Value Added Tax does not fully comply with the European Directive, so that is why we cannot install the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2799	Thank you very much. Legislative Committee, chairman of the committee. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're going to Amendment 2 to Article 2. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2800	It shall not be accepted for reasons relating to proposal 1 of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2801	This is given the explanation and which you gave in writing, given when viewing the unique text that indeed this amendment seems immaterial.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2802	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe that the spirit of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament does not allow the President or President of the Committee to withdraw the amendment without a session of the Committee because the conclusion was reached at the session of the Committee and the chair of the Committee has no power and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament does not give power to the President or President to withdraw the amendment. So I ask that this remark be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2804	The standard I have enjoyed in this Parliament for 12 years says that the chairman of the Committee on Law and other committee presidents who have been authorised to do so. So that's the standard that's been 12 years in life. ... /The noise in the hall./... Thank you very much. We are going to Amendment 3 to Article 10 of the same Legislative Committee. Can you respect Ministers, Amendment No 3 of the Legislative Committee on Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2805	The number 3 in Article 10 shall not be accepted as Article 10. The proposal for an amending and supplementing law on value added tax refers to a transitional period. If, in Article 10(1) and (2), the word of this law is added in all three cases before the wording of the law, this would mean that the provisions of the law refer to the articles of this proposal which are not true because, for example, Article 22(1) of this Law does not apply to this law but to the original law. That is why we believe that we could not technically accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2806	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. President of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2807	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2808	Thank you very much. We are going to the amendments to the Club of Representatives of the Labour-Croatian Labour Labour Party. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2809	The government does not accept the proposed amendment, and when we talk about paragraph 3.f in the same model as that of the SDP club, since we have applied the expression used in the European Union directive, then we cannot use a different expression in our bill proposal, but I repeat, we will resolve this to the rules on the implementation of the law. When we talk about point 3rd point g, h and also referring to the provisions of the European Directive which does not provide for the possibility of introducing an interconnection for electricity and gas, we are not able to accept those proposals, given that they would not receive consent, and at the same time from next year, such interactions could not even be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2810	Thank you very much. Here you are, Your Honor, Agent Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2811	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, by the way, the directives you are calling on are translated into Croatian and published in "The People's Newspaper", they are not. As far as I know, the regulations of the European Union are binding, not to the end. Something that isn't foreseen doesn't mean it's forbidden. But let's let go of the outwitting now. Two reasons, two reasons we gave. Social, no new government decision on subsidising part of the cost of electricity and gas to households by social criteria has been extended or taken. I asked the government if it intended to make such a decision during the debate and for this year, no one answered that question. It wasn't you, your associates stayed.. And now you're not showing yourself. [[You don't understand.]] Will you continue for this calendar year the model of subsidizing part of the cost of electricity and gas according to social criteria? And second, you know that from 1.7 next year, we will have to introduce minimum European excise duties on electricity and gas, which will certainly result in an increase in prices. You did not convince me that it would be contrary to European rules of domestic and small consumers, and that is why we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-16-0.u2812	Thank you very much. I ask you to make a statement about an amendment that the government does not accept. Turn yourself in and vote. Thank you very much. We can see the result. I find that 10 votes for the amendment, 30 MPs have been abstentioned and 79 against the amendments. The amendment has not been accepted. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act in the proposed text. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. We can see the result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 79 for, 1 abstention and 40 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Thank you very much. Good morning, esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. We can start doing as we announced yesterday. The first is the debate on - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and other central bodies of the State Administration, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 37 On behalf of the motionary, this is Deputy Minister Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
