ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9000	We can start working. The council is in session. We continue to discuss the agenda, the agenda points. First, - Report on the work of the Ombudsman on Gender Equality for 2011 by the Advocate General for Gender Equality submitted the report on the basis of Article 22. Gender equality laws. You took the materials into the boxes. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received those reports at the session. Does the motionary want to further explain the proposal, the report? Yeah. Here you are, Proposer Višnja Ljubičić, Advocate for Gender Equality. Here's your esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9001	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. There's a 9 in front of you. Report on the work of the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality and also my first report on the work as a new lawyer for gender equality appointed to this duty on 28 October last year. The Advocate General’s Report on Gender Equality as well as all previous reports shall be based on the provision of Article 5. The labour law by which gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status, equal opportunities for the achievement of all rights and equal benefit from the results achieved. The report shall also be based on results, complaints, analysis and research of offices, statistics and the implementation of anti-discrimination legal policies and provisions. I would like to stress that the attorney-general's primary task is to work on complaints from citizens and citizens, and this pays special attention. The report analyses the subjects and activities that have been dealt with in the field of employment, family violence, partner violence, the protection of the rights of sexual and gender minorities, discrimination in the field of education and the use of natively sensitive languages. The presentation of women and men in the media, the use of sex stereotypes and sexisms is analysed, gender equality is analysed in political participation, and legislative initiatives by the lawyer as well as activities at national and international level are ultimately exposed. The report contains 4 independent research conducted by the Ombudsman and I stress that with the exclusive use of the professional potential of employees and employees of the office, from the field of employment and work, the media, domestic violence, social protection. One of the studies had a demanding coverage of 500 Croatian companies, and another survey related to the survey of 130 Roma and Roma women. The full report also described the most characteristic 50 cases handled by the Ombudsman so that you will have an extremely good insight into how the Ombudsman has taken action in certain complaints. During 2011 The D.A.'s office worked in total on 1391 cases, representing an increase of 87.5% compared to 2010. 308 cases have been opened following complaints from citizens and citizens and the prosecutor's initiative. In my term of office, a two-month term opened by 26% of the total number. Almost 64% of the cases were discriminated against by women while men were discriminated against in 23% of the cases. In 77% of cases, complaints were related exclusively to sexual discrimination while in a smaller percentage they were related to sexual orientation and 5.2%, marital and family status 3.6%, birth identity and expression 0.3%, while in 14.3%, the Advocate's Office found that there were no grounds for discrimination and treatment. Appeals about discrimination based on sexual orientation have a slight increase of 8.5% compared to 2010 when there was over 5.8%. Citizens and citizens from all over the Republic of Croatia complained, mostly from Zagreb 46.5%. Unfortunately from other parts of the county from 6% to 0%. Most complainants and complainants have a high professional capacity of 25% and are between 35 and 44 years of age. The analysis of complaints shows, as in previous years, that persons complain in a relatively small number of cases relating to indirect discrimination which continues to suggest that this guarantee has not been recognised and has not been brought to life in practice, i.e. that citizens and citizens have problems with its understanding. I must say that citizens and citizens complain in a number of cases about the conduct of state bodies, units of local, regional (regional) self-government and other legal persons, even in 57% of cases than they complain about private-owned legal entities, which is 8.8% or other natural legal persons. The Ombudsman’s office acted on complaints and acted on the Ombudsman’s initiative at all levels of state administration in the field of all units of local and regional self-government including other legal persons and media. In total, she sent 120 written warnings and 207 recommendations, which is three times more than compared to 2010. Using the possibilities for the provisions of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Ombudsman's institutions intervened in 6 court proceedings and we are considering further involvement in judicial proceedings as involved in the court proceedings. During 2011, the Ombudsman publicly came forward and warned about the occurrences of discrimination by visiting 7 counties, from which she visited in my 2-month term, participated and exhibited at 45 round tables, conferences, public debates, organised 6 public events, talked with the proteges of 4 women victims of violence from 4 different counties, participated and spoke at 7 international conferences, had five meetings at international level, co-operated with 26 different civil society organisations, and published in the 54th article a statement or a statement by the Ombudsman. Also, updated official websites visited about 90 thousand visitors. As regards the area of action and the arrival of the largest number of complaints, this is the area of employment of social care, pension rights and all benefits arising from, with a working relationship. In that case, we're talking about as much as 65% of the total number. The highest number of complaints about discrimination in this area is 94%, the highest number of complaints 56%, women complain while men complain in 13% of cases in this area. It also concerns a high number of complaints about sexual harassment in the field of employment, which accounts for 42% of all complaints in the field of employment and employment relations, which were submitted exclusively by women. Statistical indicators showed that the trend of the increase in the number of employees is continuing for a certain period of time from year to year, reaching 90.7% today. Of all the newly employed women in 2011 only 8.4% contracted indefinitely. Women continue to make up most of the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, which is 53.6%, work in the underpaid sectors and remains a visible pay gap. Women make up most of the employees for a certain time with a present horizontal, vertical discrimination against women on the labour market. According to the latest data from the State Department for Women Statistics on average, 80.9% of the average gross salary made monthly by men means that women earn 6588 kuna from men. Given the devastating data, it is necessary to carry out appropriate control of business organisations, employment policies and business development in the bulk of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. business entities in public power. In order to identify the sub-representation of women in management, management positions and to significantly increase the control of compliance with the obligation to adopt positive measures in order to achieve a balanced representation of women at all levels of management. I also have to mention here the number of complaints the D.A.'s office has received from pregnant women and women who have recently given birth to. For the sake of sexual discrimination regarding their working-law status, working conditions and this year is a very low number of individual complaints, and it is not surprising. The end of employment, the loss of a permanent source of economic income, has been particularly difficult for this group of women, given the increase in the cost of life incurred by the birth of a child. These persons are therefore significantly sensitive to the risk of possible victimisation of the current or future employer. To appeal to the Advocate General or to initiate any court proceedings. It is a devastating fact that pregnant women and women who have recently given birth to victims of sexual discrimination not only by the employer, but also by state institutions that have a special obligation to care for their health, economic situation, labour market position. As for the discriminatory practice of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which the Ombudsman warned of during the previous reporting periods. We suggest that an additional maternity leave up to the age of 6 months used only 0.47% of men, which is a stagnation compared to 2010 when that right was used by 0.4% of fathers. Parent leave from 181 to 900 days was used by 4.67 men, representing a slight increase of only 1% compared to 2010. From this, it can be concluded that the process of harmonising family, private and professional life still does not go firmly in the direction of removing inequalities in the social position of men and women. I have to say that the majority of complaints and presentations are instructions, and asked the guidance of the fathers' men 56% even of the fathers' parents' associations that related to preventing the maintenance of regular and uninterrupted meetings and association with underage children by mothers. Do not take measures by the Institute for Social Care, Obstity to the Mother by the Institute of Social Care, Imequate relationship to parental care, unfair treatment of fathers by the institution in carrying out parental care content, and not taking seriously reports by fathers regarding domestic violence towards children. It has also been seen as the complainants continue to claim that there are certain stereotypes and prejudices among individual employees and employees of competent institutions, which are manifested through discriminatory statements or views on men in the family. How the child’s father is, if the child’s father is employed, and the mother is not, then she has much more time to devote herself to the child, so the child should be entrusted to her. If the father doesn't work, he can't take care of the child, so the child needs to be entrusted to the mother, until the "Mother's a Mother". In view of this, it points to the need for education of the staff of the Department of Social Care on the implementation of the principle of gender equality, on the implementation of activities to promote equal distribution of household chores, and on equal distribution of parental responsibility for child care, including the promotion of parental care for fathers, as well as the use of parental leave of fathers. Analyzing a national employment promotion plan for 2011 - 2016 has been observed to be under-implemented in activities related to reducing the unemployment of women on the labour market. Therefore, not only the state but also the local and regional units, regional self-government should be more engaged in the implementation of that employment plan, in a way that develops additional incentives at local level. The D.A.'s office conducted a survey on women and men's representation at management and management positions in business entities on a sample as I said from 500 Croatian companies, for which 428 companies responded largely. It has shown that women are significant, and significant in a number of cases are highly sub-represented in the Croatian labour market at all levels of participation from regular jobs, through management positions to participation in administrative, supervisory bodies. Women make up only 19% of board members, only 9% of women are head of the board, only 20% of women are board members and 11% head of the board. This indicates the need to apply positive measures to create the possibility of harmonising family, professional obligations, including measures to achieve and more uniform distribution of domestic family business between men and women. The second part of the complaints of citizens and citizens concerns cases of domestic violence, and I must say that domestic violence affects us most at human level. Violence against women as well as domestic violence is considered a form of sexual discrimination. During 2011 The D.A.'s office followed the work of professional services, police, the Department of Social Care, Health, so the first team to act and work with victims of domestic violence. We have observed how a protocol on the conduct of domestic violence is implemented. I must say, according to the Home Office last year, there were about 20,000 cases of domestic violence. We were mostly complained about by women in 65% of cases. Women are the victims of all forms of violence from the most severe form of murder to the conditionality of the most infringing one. The data on crimes against sexual freedom and sexual disorder show that they were committed in 93.8% of cases against women and it can be concluded that unfortunately women continue to perceive themselves as a sexual object resulting in severe criminal acts such as rape. The number of police interventions due to domestic violence is on the decline, but the number of persons reported is 8% higher than in 2010. Unfortunately, 2011 did not go without the victims of the most severe form of violence in the family of murder, which accounts for 22.9% of the victims of all killings in the Republic of Croatia, which was made up of women. There has also been an increase in the number of proposed safeguard measures, an increase in the number of safeguard measures entrusted to police enforcement and an increase in the number of complaints made, with a reduction in the number of police interventions. I would like to stress that the police respect the warnings and recommendations issued by the Ombudsman, which is a contribution to the fight against domestic violence. One extremely good news is the application of Article 31. A law on gender equality that has proved to be a very effective instrument in countering partner violence as a form of sexual discrimination against women to whom victims without exception are exposed to harassment, follow-up, insult by men with whom they were in one of the relationships. The application of that article is proposed by the police. Infringement courts make a decision and can impose a fine of between 5 and 30000 kuna and may say that I received all the areas of the Republic of Croatia 8 of such infringements from the Police Directorate for the past year. And what pleases me not only from the Zagreb area but from the Slavonski Brod, Zadar, Rijeka and the like. I stress the need to ensure conditions for the continued implementation of psychosocial treatment, its financial support, given that the first research into the impact of the said treatment has shown that the same significant contribution has been made to reducing relapses, violent behavior in the family. We find that the legislative framework for curbing violent behaviour exists and that it is perfected and developed through application. What does not exist is a system of measures to help and support victims of domestic violence and their children at the time when the repressive apparatus does its part in the processing of the bully. It is particularly important to encourage the economic empowerment of victims of violence through further employment, in particular by resolving their housing issues, and in this respect it is necessary to strengthen activities in the planned and systematic implementation of the same measures at all levels of society. Given the importance of the existence and operation of shelters and counselling centres for victims of domestic violence, the Office conducted a study on ways of financing shelters for victims of domestic violence. The survey was conducted in all counties, conducted and received data on all 19 shelters and counselling centres. And it shows that there are still certain difficulties related to the financing of autonomous women's shelters, thus jeopardizing their smooth work. Although almost all units of local, regional, regional self-government according to the Social Care Act as well as the Protocol on the treatment of domestic violence set out certain means for the work of shelters. However, these funds in their overall budget are very small. It's only 0.01 to 0.16% of the total budget. The shelters cited the late payment of cash, the retroactive payment of these funds as the main problem of functioning, and the above definitely endangers their smooth work. It is therefore necessary to regulate the financing of the shelter without delay. The office also conducted research on Roma women as users of the right to free legal assistance as particularly vulnerable groups of citizens. Amendments to the Law on Free Legal Assistance entitled to free legal aid, unfortunately, have been abolished by victims of domestic violence. Victims of domestic violence used by the Institute of Free Legal Assistance are almost exclusively women seeking secondary legal assistance to represent the court in litigation and out of litigation proceedings, etc. It follows from the research carried out that the Institute of Free Legal Assistance continues to produce concrete results in practice. However, in order to make full sense, it is necessary to improve existing legislative solutions and practices so that the victims of domestic violence who need such assistance can be achieved in a simpler way. The survey has shown that Roma women are indeed vulnerable groups of women who have multiple discrimination over gender and ethnicities that are difficult to access even secondary education, employment, regular monetary incomes and as such have to take care of themselves, members and members of their family and, in that sense, fit the classic profile of the average female victims of violence. During the reporting period, we were involved in the development of the National Strategy for the Roma National Minority, and we also proposed measures to remove marginalisation and discrimination on an ethnic basis as they suffer discrimination by sex and on the other hand faced other forms of discrimination, the patriarchal system, etc. The social situation of sexual and birth minorities and LGBT populations did not significantly change compared to 2010. It remains unfavourable primarily because the victims of violent abuse are motivated by prejudice. The visibility of LGBT communities and their problems rose primarily in 2011, thanks to the activation of civil society organisations dealing with the protection and promotion of the equality of LGBT persons. The frequent violence and hate crime against LGBT persons testify to the existence of homophobia in Croatian society but there is still no clear progress in improving the protection of their fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the existing legislative framework, the Law on Isex Communities is not guaranteed an adequate level of social, economic, social protection but only a very narrow set of property rights. We therefore believe that such a situation requires the creation of a new legislative framework. In addition, the development of European Court of Human Rights practices described in the report will require a significant adjustment to Croatian legislation. Further awareness of the society's non-acceptability of these forms of discrimination as well as the promotion of tolerance in all areas of public life is necessary in order to ensure that LGBT persons have a fundamental right to freedom without fear of condemnation and adverse consequences of expression and live their personal identity. Further extremely sensitive and vulnerable social groups are asylum groups within which there are even more sensitive and vulnerable social groups such as women, children, persons with disabilities, LGBT populations, so persons exposed to multiple discrimination. In this respect, care should be taken of their needs and rights during reception and integration. This year's analysis of the Ombudsman's Office on women and men's representation in education as particularly worrying points out negative tendencies regarding the high sub-representation of male teachers in primary schools is 15.8% while the same problem at the level of secondary education is much less pronounced. At the level of secondary school education, female under-representation is still present among students and pupils in industrial and crafts high schools, male gender sub-representation in artistic secondary schools, while in high schools the number of pupils also decreases more and slowly stands out as a new area with significant sub-representation. Perhaps the biggest problem with gender imbalance is the area of higher education where, as in previous years, study areas are visibly divided into traditional male and traditional women, so that women's areas are the most prominent in the field of social care services, education, educators, teachers, sciences and education and biological science, and as male areas of engineering, engineering crafts, computer sciences and protection services.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9002	Excuse me, the time has passed, so please proceed towards the end of your exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9003	The office conducted an annual analysis of the web portal's press which continues to show that sexism, sex stereotypes, prevail in the media. And finally, I would like to point out that one of the preconditions for the construction of anti-discriminatory gender attitudes in society is the removal of stereotypes, the introduction of gender-aware education and education into the entire education system. It is therefore necessary to continue to integrate content related to the area of human rights in the teaching process. I would like to point out that strengthening existing institutional mechanisms including coordinators, the Committee on Gender Equality at local level but also the roles of the courts consider essential factors to ensure the implementation of the Law on Gender Equality as well as the necessary real and unconditional support of all state factors and units of local self-government in the implementation of that law. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9004	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. First of all, the representatives' clubs. The first word has on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives Mrs. Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9005	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed lawyers for gender equality, colleagues and colleagues. Gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of political, public and private life. It means they have equal status and equal opportunities to exercise all their rights. In other words, in front of the lawyer for gender equality, but in front of all of us, there's a huge job. Because we live in the country, and from the report of the Ombudsman for gender equality, it is visible in which women are paid less for the same job, in which less than a third of women sit in management places in companies, in which, for example, in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which is considered our most significant artistic and scientific institution, less than 10% of women sit. So we have a huge task ahead of us to change it, to change it faster. The report on the work of the lawyer, which will be accepted by the HNS club, shows the Ombudsman's great efforts to establish close cooperation with the county's Committee on Gender Equality, which we praise. All activities of the Advocate's Office as well as the results of important research on the proportion and position of women in various areas are detailed, and the report particularly highlights certain topics that are important for discussion in the HNS club. One of these is also violence against women who are completely unacceptable to civilization, but in Croatia, but also in the world, unfortunately, has been extended to all layers of society and is happening regardless of education or status. The lawyer's report states that during 2011, 11 women were killed by a male family member, and the total number of victims of domestic violence was 20 thousand 247. This number, and research everywhere in the world, shows that the family is the most violent social group of modern society except for the military in times of war truth and that women are threatened by more violence than their partner. More than 80% of cases of domestic violence, including the most serious crimes committed by men against women, and research shows that women's request for help depends on their economic independence, or on the material situation they are in, about emotional bonding with a violent partner, on the number of children, on whether they were victims of child abuse, but also on trust in the state institutions. There are colleagues and colleagues, the state and politics must play their part because violence against women is not a personal problem for the victim but a social problem and a fundamental cause, but also a consequence of women's inequality. It should be made clear that violence against women is a disgrace to the perpetrator, not to the victims, because in some of our environments, violence against the woman is often seen as actually a disgrace to the wife, or family. The intervention of state and society can therefore be done most in the development and protection of victims of violence, and this topic in the public needs to be given greater importance i.e. violence needs to be spoken publicly, and perpetrators are punished more quickly and more strongly, clearly and condemned, in order to encourage victims of violence to report violence. Because we know actually, I think that's what the D.A. said, that out of the 10 cases of violence, only one is actually reporting. We need to do this as soon as possible, and at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and work, we need to pass a law on the financing of a shelter for victims of domestic violence, and in our club, it is necessary to throw out the possibility of financial punishment for the perpetrator, because actually when we have that possibility of fine, the whole family is punished because that punishment is actually paid out of a let's say family budget or budget, as you will. So it's better for us to punish the perpetrators solely by punishing the prison, but we'll say more about it when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on protection against domestic violence. In the field of labour and employment as can be seen from the report, discrimination still exists and women are in a much worse position. When talking about a job, women are discriminated against on the basis of marital and family status, they are asked how many children have or are thinking about having a baby, wondering whether they want to get married or not to get married, how many, when, and so on. We consider it important that the lawyer and her co-workers from the office have devoted a great deal of attention to the protection of women from unwanted behaviour in the workplace. We consider, in particular, a major contribution in this protection to the production and printing of guides called "How to Recognize Sexual Discrimination in the workplace and how to protect itself from it" whose intention is to raise awareness of women and men about the problem of all forms of discrimination, but also to teach union commissioners and commissioners and lawyers i.e. lawyers how to act when dealing with such problems. It is precisely the exchange of information and cooperation between the Ombudsman and other state bodies or institutions, such as trade unions, that plays a key role in countering discrimination. Because we often see that, nor the union commissioners, i.e. Commissioners who first address workers in the event of violations of their rights also do not know well what discrimination is in all its forms, and when they recognize it, they are not sure what they should do and what mechanisms are available. Attorney General, excellent work. The Ombudsman's report also shows that the social situation of sexual and gender minorities has not changed significantly compared to 2010 and that their position remains unfavourable. There is a serious danger if we do not make it clear to our actions that discrimination on every basis is unacceptable, that the next lawyer's report will show that we live in a society where intolerance to others and different and tolerance to hate is too great. And that is why the HNS club is also joining, the esteemed Ombudsman, your condemnation of the discriminatory decision of the City of Split regarding the change of the previously agreed course of maintaining this year's parade of pride in Split, and we in the HNS this way warn of breach of the Law on Gender Equality. Since this law also prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation, we draw attention to the fact that that decision has led participants and participants of the Pride Parade to a more unfavourable position than other groups. The announcement of a change of route already established by the city's competent authorities is a violation of constitutional and convention provisions guaranteeing the right of free gathering, and cities and municipalities would now be. their representatives should provide i.e. to protect the rights of all citizens and citizens, not to make decisions at the expense of human rights, i.e. to make decisions that create a negative atmosphere in the public, raise tensions and encourages discrimination and violence again. And it is this great opportunity for the City of Split to show its other face because supporting gay arrivals has become a measure of tolerance in all developed countries of the world. We at the HNS club believe that our goal is to live in a society that does not discriminate against people by any standard and we believe that Croatia can become a fair society of equal citizens in which everyone will have the freedom to choose lifestyle and have the freedom to think differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9006	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, Ms. Nancei Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9007	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected attorneys with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here's a question at first, if someone told you that you had to work 62 days more than he did to finally get an equal average salary, I guess you'd all say it wasn't normal. This is exactly what happens to women, both in Croatia, and in Europe. A woman has to work 62 days more for the same average salary as a man. We in Croatia began dealing systematically with gender inequality problems in '96. the year by the establishment of the then Committee on the Issue of Equality. In 2001, a Committee on Gender Equality was established here in the Assembly, two years later the Advocate's Office and 2004. The government's Office for Gender Equality. We wrote the first national policy to promote equality back in '97, and now we're implementing a national policy that's been in effect since last year. Turns out, by reading this attorney's report now, that 20 years ago, we knew better what we wanted about gender equality and somehow saw more clearly what we had to do than we see today. We've written everything on paper as we should, but we're still slowly spelling letters and putting them in some kind of understandable sentences. The most important indicators of women's inequality are the unfavourable position on the labour market, sub-representation in the process of making political and public decisions, the frequency of different forms of violence with the continuity of gender stereotypes. In the total number of unemployed, the share of women decreased slightly and in 2010 was almost 55%, down 5% in 4 years. The male employment rate in 2010 was 47% and the woman was 35% and the female unemployment rate was 2.2% higher compared to men. Although among highly educated women there are more men than they are paid 10.6% less for wages. If we translate these percentages into understood language and ignore statistics as such then we can say that women are more slowly employed, there are more at employment offices and that they are much longer there and that they get far less paid for their work. The result of the pay gap is discrimination against women who thus have less purchasing power, their pensions will be far less, and they are in greater danger than men in terms of poverty. In February of last year, the government also adopted a National Employment Encouraging Plan for 2011 and 2012, among the key priorities of this national plan and increasing the level of employability and participation of women of the primary age group in the labour market, which has been in place since 2010, and the Strategy for the Development of Women's Entrepreneurship. The new National Gender Equality Policy in its programme area provides for equal opportunities on the labour market as the most important objectives of reducing unemployment and eliminating all forms of discrimination against women on the labour market, empowering women entrepreneurship, promoting measures that enable the harmonisation of private and professional obligations. It's all writing to us again, but we don't know or obviously don't want to, maybe we can't. Because our wishes and loose stories deny defeating data. The largest number of complaints last year came precisely from the field of employment and work and totals 65% of the total complaints, with 95% of them referring to sexual discrimination itself. As for employment, it is obvious that we cannot hire anyone in Croatia, let alone women, because we simply have no place to go. And by training strictness and by putting stamps on the living rooms of old women who guard the children of those lucky women who still managed to find a job, but they have no children where to leave them because they in these cities and municipalities not only forgot to read the national strategy but also the Units Act of Local and Regional Self-Government, so they didn't even bother to do anything. The area of political participation of women has been made progress as such, but they continue to constitute a sub-represented sex in the process of making public and political decisions, i.e. in restoring representative and executive powers except for that court at national and local level. However, the biggest shift was made in improving the normative framework and in the new Law on Gender Equality for the first time in the Croatian electoral legislation, quotas were introduced to include at least 40% of the sub-represented sex on election lists for all levels of the election and I think each of you knows which is and how many political parties in the previous parliamentary elections respected this letter of the law. And this same Law on political parties also determines that parliamentary parties are granted 10% higher financial compensation for the party's actions, so here we can at least be glad that there are very little of us in the Parliament, but that we are worth more. Violence against women is stronger than the story. Nine years ago, a law on protection against domestic violence was passed, eight years ago we brought the National Strategy against Family Violence, three years ago we passed a new Law on protection against domestic violence because we obviously realized at least one thing that the old one is not good for everything that happens in our daily life. The MIP data for 2010 are simply alarming. More than 18,000 requests were filed for police intervention, almost 8,000 people were imposed and a measure of detention was implemented in the area of the police, 16 564 people were reported for domestic violence, and 20 531 people were injured by 64% of the female. A total of 1118 people were injured by 78.6% of women. Eighteen crimes of murder between family members and 23 crimes of attempted murder among family members. We realized that these women and children of the victims of domestic violence must be put away from the violent ones, so we trained 19 shelters for them. Some autonomous, homes for adults and children victims of violence, family centres and church counselling centres with reception centers located in the 15 cities and counties. Yes, we've trained the centers, but on the way, we forgot to say how we're going to finance them, or how it's going to be financed, and if we have the resources we need for all of this. Homes and church counselors are still somehow funded, and we simply forgot about the autonomous women's shelters run by civil society organisations. And why it turns out we're thinking about them when they're civil anyway, so maybe we don't. In 2008, then, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity signed a financing agreement with them in a way that 30% finance the ministry, 30% of the county, 30% of the municipalities or the city in which the centre and counselling centre are located, with 10% of the funds needed to be financed on their own. The problem was, however, the moment the accounts started to arrive, and there was no money in the account, and yet those protected women and children in shelters every day must eat. Two years ago, in May 2010, the Parliament discussed the problem of systematic financing of autonomous women's houses and counselling centres for women and their children, victims of domestic violence. When 7 autonomous women's houses and consulates presented their draft funding bill, which was then supported by the ministry. Nothing after the support changed, so 12,358 signatures of support from citizens and citizens on the urgent adoption of the Law on the financing of these shelters were handed over to the government in the 10th month. However, the government responded to these signatures and to the problem by amending the existing law in such a way as to pay 90% of the originally agreed funds if there are funds for it, if it is. I wonder if we have any? Safe houses continue to report for tenders and beg for charity, each year 3 sign contracts for one and the same thing with the ministry, both with the municipality and with the county. There are more and more protégés in these houses, and the money is getting smaller and the enthusiasm of those people who work in these houses all those years. In this great desire to prevent violence, we forgot to sign the Council of Europe Convention. Almost a year ago, a Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence was adopted in Istanbul in May 2011. The Convention, which makes for a comprehensive legal and binding international agreement with provisions on the prevention, protection of victims and prosecution of perpetrators of violence, has been signed today by 17 Member States of the Council of Europe, but Croatia is unfortunately not among them. Turkey is the only signatories country that recently ratified this document. The Council of Europe calls on all other European governments to follow the Turkish example. Ministry of Social Policy and Youth 10. In February this year, it decided to establish a working group to prepare for the signing and harmonisation of translations of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence with a Croatian legal title. In the working group there are 19 representatives, i.e. representatives of competent state bodies, institutions and civil society organisations. Although in the working group there were such indications that Croatia would sign the convention very quickly, this unfortunately has not yet happened. The question arises why did Croatia not do this? One of the common arguments that can be heard informally is the need to analyse the harmonisation of the law, which is an argument falling into the water when it is taken into account that it has been accepted by the Committee of Ministers and that the prominent Croatian experts participated in its development. And as we thus translate and coordinate, while writing strategies and agreeing national policies, unfortunately a few more women have been beaten, some of them unfortunately to death. And there are many more hungry than enough because the promised money from the ministries, cities and municipalities has not yet reached their accounts, to the account of safe houses, regardless of what I am now taking the opportunity to thank all those women who sat here in the Parliament and who have made an effort to get to them anyway. But we wonder why money would come out when it's already said it'll come out if it's there, and it's gone. And I ask the final question what does that mean? Just one thing about sheltering their closure and returning to violence and violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9008	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Dunja Spoljar. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9009	Thank you, Mr. President, Attorney General, with an associate, respected colleague, and respected fellow MPs. The 21st century has brought about many civilization progress, 6 out of 10 of today's top paid jobs, 5 years ago they didn't even exist. Schools today prepare children for occupations that do not yet exist, to use technologies that are not yet invented to solve the problems that are yet to arise. Every eight marriages in the world are the consequences of getting to know each other online. Google daily answers 30 billion questions, the daily number of text messages sent exceeds the total number of inhabitants on earth, one daily edition of newspapers contains more information than the person born in the 18th century could collect throughout his life. It is predicted that there will be pre-conditions for the construction of an account that will exceed the human brain's ability next year. But a woman at 21. For centuries, unfortunately, the same as in the last century, and even the last century, still seeks: better wages, better working conditions, and living conditions. In addition, every 3 minutes 1 woman has been abused, every few minutes 1 woman has been raped, every day women die from the consequences of pregnancy and childbirth, in the highest numbers as a consequence of neglect and abuse. Women are still perceived exclusively through the role of mother and wife. Little girls are bought dolls, their obedience and humility are praised, games in which stereotypes are reproduced about women as housewives, ladies and weak emotional beings. Boys are bought guns and aggressive toys, their self-control, aggression, strength and determination are commended, the hero complex and life ambition, the impression of superiority, responsibility and domination. The Patriarchal family needs a clear separation of roles, rights and duties, a model of conduct and the virtues of men and women. On the one hand there are 240 pages of systematic, structurally arranged report, excellent methodologies and proposed solutions. But on the other hand, the content offered by this report is more than worrying. This Report offers categorical answers to questions whether women are equal in employment and labor, whether women are equal in the family, whether they are equal sex and gender minorities. Are women equal in the education system? Are women equally represented in the media? Do women decide independently about their reproductive health? Is gender equality sufficiently firmly implemented in national policy? Are women equal in politics? The answers to these questions in order are no, no, no, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not. The only area where women are properly represented is discrimination at work and according to working conditions, according to the possibility, i.e. the inability to carry out independent or non-performing activities, including the criteria for selection and conditions of employment and promotion, in access to all types of professional guidance, professional training and training, and requalification in terms of social security, including the area of social care, pension and health insurance, and insurance for the case of unemployment in education, in science and sport, in the judiciary and in the administration, in public information and media, in access to goods and services, in health care, in the membership and activities of trade unions, in civil society organisations, political parties or any other organisation. Even in cultural and artistic creation. Of the 30 ongoing procedures that determine discrimination, as many as 26% of the procedures are from the field of work. In the Croatian labour market, the share of women in the total unemployment rate is 53.6%. Women are less paid for equal work, are thrown out of constant harassment and shagging, economic inequality among employees is evident for a certain period of time most of them are women, and more than 85% of the work contracts are concluded for a certain period of time. It is a significant segregation of women and men according to their activities. We still have male and female occupations in Croatia. The main reasons for the unemployment of women are the possibility of becoming pregnant and being sick for a child, or one word of motherhood. During talks on women's work, particularly those young people are exposed to discrimination with questions about future life's plans. Employed women earn 12 and a half percent less than men's employees, and women hold only 5% of management functions. It is a very worrying fact found by this report that persons considered to be discriminated possess rather low levels of knowledge of their anti-discrimination rights. There is still a lack of judicial practice that would encourage victims of discrimination to pursue more actively to protect their rights. Women are neither equal, but unfortunately nor safe in their own families. In 2011, 11, 13127 women were exposed to domestic violence. A culturally traditional dogma of male power, privileges and control is present. The gender inequality was also presented by parliamentary elections in 2011. 2835 candidates and 1524 candidates were reported for the 2011 parliamentary elections or expressed in percentages 65.04% to 34.96%. But women were carriers only on 55 lists or only 17.6%. Almost half of the candidates were positioned behind 9 seats on the lists. This is why today in the House is the next birth picture: 77% of MPs and only 23% of MPs. I'm closing up. The Advocate General for Gender Equality acted on complaints and personal initiative at all levels of the state administration and on all units of local and regional self-government including other legal and natural persons, and media by sending numerous written warnings and recommendations. The report concluded and proposed measures. It is up to all of us to contribute to the proposed measures. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will definitely accept and support this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9010	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Igor Čeek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9011	The esteemed attorney, the esteemed president of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the HDSSB club support the 2011 Ombudsman's report on gender equality. But we note that the data in this report is devastating in terms of gender equality and to the harm of women. Statistics show that the Office of the Advocate General for Gender Equality in 2011 worked on 1359 cases of which 315 cases were received by complaints from citizens or citizens. 25 cases are open to the Advocate General's initiative to violate the principle of gender equality, and 1051 are open to the Ombudsman's initiative to monitor the application of the Law on Gender Equality. The data show that the number of complaints did not increase compared to 2010, but increased the number of cases in which the prosecutor claimed discrimination. 76 cases in 2011 and 60 in 2010 In 63.9% of cases, women were discriminated against and men were disciplined in 23.1% of cases. The complaints were mostly about sexual discrimination, and these percentages are real indicators of how much women are discriminated against in the Republic of Croatia. According to the Croatian Employment Service of December 2011, the share of women in the total number of unemployed is 53.6%. But what concerns the most is the fact that out of 87747 new employees, only 8.4% of them contracted indefinitely while in men the percentage is 19.5% which tells us enough how employers treat women. All existing rights both Croatian and European remain only a dead letter on paper if our wives, mothers who are fortunate to work unfortunately are very often exploited for minimum wage. There are many examples of such discrimination by employers, and most of them can be found in shops where women are forced to work on Sundays and holidays to preserve their and such an insecure job, and the employer keeps them in the hands of a contract. Of course, no woman can even think about pregnancy because, in such a case, the automatism of the contract ends at a certain time, the possibility of returning to the same workplace. There are many cases where a woman informs an employer of pregnancy to be called a traitor and other evil names. Not to mention cases that are currently up-to-date. It is done mostly to continental Croatia especially Slavonia and Baranja where our wives, mothers, daughters go to the Adriatic or Germany for seasonal jobs to participate in family nutrition. In particular, I know of a case where a woman who, by the way, a single mother lost her job, not by her own fault, but by the destruction of a large woodworking industry... Slatine and new jobs for her are not even in her funniest dreams, so by feeding, training, and schooling two underage children she had to go to work in Germany for seasonal jobs in agriculture, and such jobs she was doing can be compared with the work of slaves on cotton plantations in America. The question arises why in this case do her children not have the right to happily grow up with their mother? Why can competent institutions not enable that mother to work in her place so that she can be with her children and give them parental love? Anyone who's responsible for such fates is needed and has to answer because there's nothing harder than to watch children's tears when they break up with their mother. The research conducted by the Advocate's Office on a sample of 428 companies showed that women are significantly sub-represented in the Croatian labour market at all levels of participation and from regular jobs through management positions to participation in administrative supervisory bodies. Women make up only 19% of management members and only 9% of women are head of the administration. Only 20% of women are board members and 11% head of the board, although they make up most of the higher education population. The result of the survey shows a more significant sub-representation of women in the most responsible positions in entities that are mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia. While in private business entities women occupy 36% of the leading positions, state business entities occupy significantly less 27% of the leading positions and 19% of the leading positions at the highest level. This indicates the need to apply positive measures to create the possibility of harmonising family and professional obligations. It is necessary to work to raise awareness of the proper schedule of family tasks between women and men in order to stop such discrimination against women on the labour market. However, we can read from the data published in the register of public sector employees that out of 28 thousand 880 civil servants and public sector residents, 18 thousand 628 or 64.5% are women. The government, which should be the driver of economic development of the Republic of Croatia, must act in a strengthened way in the form of support for the self-employment of women and for the activation of women to participate in entrepreneurship with a greater share. There are examples of good practice in Europe. Germany has adopted a national agency to encourage women's entrepreneurship. In Finland, there is a system where successful women entrepreneurs give free advice to women entrepreneurs who are beginners. As a result of the severe economic crisis, the high unemployment rate makes citizens depressed and unhappy with their lives, resulting in domestic violence where women are mostly victims. As a serious violation of human rights, violence against women is penetrating through all cultural, socio-economic and educational boundaries. Violence against women is the most common form of human rights violations in Europe. The data suggests that one in five women in EU countries subjected to violence by her partner. In the Republic of 2011 11 women were killed by a male family member. ...means that women represent 57% of the victims of a murder inside the family. Women are victims of all forms of violence from his most severe form of murder to the conditionality of the most easy criminal punishment. It was thus recorded that the total number of victims of domestic violence was 20 thousand 247 in 2011 and of which 13 thousand 127 or 64.8% were female. However, an analysis of the data available so far concluded that the courts did not adopt 50% of the proposed safeguard measures recommended by the Ombudsman to the courts. Domestic violence is not a private matter between partners because it has long - term adverse consequences especially on children. Fortunately, the world of domestic violence has grown in recent years, but it is still not enough because many women do not want to admit abuse because of the shame of the public or the environment in which they live. Many ways of discrimination against women can also be found in the media through various radios and TV ads where it is very common to advertise a product and increase the ratings of the advertising itself, therefore the product uses so-called. female attributes that refer only physically to a woman, not to her being as a whole. In the end, we can conclude no matter how much gender equality is represented, no matter how active women's rights associations are, there is still a great discrimination against women, and in order to stop this discrimination we must constantly work on changes to the system of values that depends on strengthening the role of women in all segments of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9012	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the representative of Suncana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9013	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The esteemed attorneys, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since the adoption of the National Gender Equality Policy, to date we can say that stronger fundamental institutional mechanisms are at national and local level and are introduced as we know how to call them important legislative changes with a view to combating women's discrimination and improving the implementation of equal opportunities policies for both sexes. Legislative and institutional changes as well as numerous actions and campaigns carried out over the past period have led to some progress but have not led to what we are seeking, and this is a complete removal of the different forms of discrimination between women and the establishment of a society of opportunities equal for both sexes. I am surprised, therefore, by the fact that there is virtually no data on the work of the Gender Equality Office relating to the implementation of national policy in 2011 at all. - 2015, so as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we may not get a full picture of the implementation of national policy. It is also to ensure the implementation of the National Gender Equality Policy and the Action Plan which contains key activities and measures towards priority thematic areas of action such as the promotion of women's human rights and gender equality, equal opportunities in the labour market, gender sensitive education, equality in the decision-making process in political and public life, the removal of violence against women, international policy and cooperation and institutional mechanisms and methods of implementation. It also states that citizens will be informed about the obligations to introduce gender-sensitive policies in all areas of social life, and in line with national legislation and EU standards. They are, as stated or as should be implemented by the holders of HRT, the media, the Office for Gender Equality, the Committee for Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, the County Committee for Gender Equality, the competent authorities of the state administration in accordance with their legal work cycle in cooperation with civil society organisations. According to it, education on the gender equality of media workers and workers who create media content should begin, which is unfortunately only partially done so far. We know for ourselves, unless there's a wider media positive picture, and if it's not talked about it, it's gonna be hard to get to every man, to anyone who's meant to. Among other things, the report provided seeks to sensitize the public about the problem of pay gaps between men and women, which my predecessors have spoken of, for the work of equal value in direct discrimination, the most hard-line form of inequality of women in Croatian society which we can say is already established and generally accepted practice of behaviour, which we would like to avoid right now. Out of the total number of unemployed in December 2011, and this has already been the case, unemployed women were slightly less than in December 2010, although the proportion of women in registered unemployment in the observed period decreased, but only slightly, by 1%. According to the Croatian Employment Service, a little more than 52% of women are employed, but when employed women are employed mostly for a certain time. Of course, it causes a whole series of other obstacles: reduced family-based opportunities, so if you want the basic one, getting credit, housing care, and everything that brings permanent work, not work for a certain time. Women are still less paid when employed in Croatia. This also shows all the state statistics we have and research by the Ombudsman shown in this report that this difference is mainly not the fault of employers. Although we like to put our finger on employers immediately, this is not the case, but rather the obstacles that women experience, which gives them society as a whole, and in principle is subordinated to the interests and needs of men. One part of the cause of less employment and less wages than women lies in their education. In fact, young women represent a more educated part of Croatian society. Out of the total number of graduates at our universities almost 50% is women, of the total number of magistrates is almost 59%, of the total number of doctors in science are almost 50% women. So we can't say that women are less educated than men, but quite the opposite. However, they are traditionally focused on activities that are less paid in society through humanistic, social, educational sciences, and too little on those who bring money. It is generally business, management, or the field of information, which is essentially a problem that is present in the education system. My colleagues said something about it before. So we don't have policies that will sort of direct both girls and boys to choose because at that age they have to choose, but also to raise, to educate and to choose occupations that are not recognized as a typical female or as a typical male. All of this is later, of course, reflected on the pension system, causing fewer pensions for women, so let's say the average age pension of women is 508 kuna, approximately as calculated, smaller than the male pension, or the average disability pension of women is less than 1013 kuna compared to the pension of men. Certain moves have been made to improve the regulatory framework in the field of political women participation and the new Law on Gender Equality have been introduced for the first time in the Croatian electoral legislation, so that the definition of the Council of Europe on the sensitive imbalance of one sex in public and political decision-making bodies and the required obligation for political parties, we all know this, and other authorised proposings to include at least 40% of the sub-represented sex on election lists for all levels of the elections. At this point, that sex is a woman's sex. This, of course, is an additionally updated and constructive previous legislative framework which, by law on the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, obliges political parties to take care of gender equality as proposings. It has already been said, even obtaining 10% more financial compensation for women's activities in the parties. I'll look back on the media for a little while. So today, electronic and printed media in the Republic of Croatia play a significant role in shaping public opinion and significantly affecting the country's social and political processes. But if we take any daily newspapers, if we look at and listen to any informational, cultural show on television and radio, we can understand that women are slightly represented and are given less space in our media. If we engage in a slightly deeper analysis of media texts and content, we often encounter confirmation of discriminatory practice, stereotypes and objectification of women. It is important here to stress that if women are getting married and that the media space is mostly sensational. Take a few papers and check it out. The difference in the way in which women are shown in relation to men in any position is an indicator of discriminatory attitude towards women in politics. Women, however, are much easier to label, contrary to female shortcomings, there are determination, strength, ability, professionalism and expertise called being a man, and being a woman is usually associated with weaknesses. Given the current state of play of women's participation in political and public life in our community, it is necessary to make progress in promoting the balanced share of women and men and in making political and public decisions for the functioning of democratic society, full respect for human rights, social justice and what we call progress in general. Women also need to be provided with support measures. In fact, too much of the obligation of family and professional and expectations from women when deciding on political public action leads to the inability to align the entire obligations and content, kindergartens, schools and therefore it is necessary to encourage the sharing of responsibilities and jobs between women and men in the private sphere. There are data as to how many men, and the law allows them, decided to use maternity leave. It's one of the mildest examples. It is also necessary to demystify political action as too demanding, overloading especially at local community level. It does not assume a significant additional effort other than a desirable commitment to improve living conditions and address problems in the community, the local one at the lowest level. These days, we heard, more specifically yesterday, that the EU is looking for decisive reforms to boost the competitiveness of the investment climate. Why am I saying that? In this context, I'm just going to do a depression when we're talking about women, for example. Last year, 11 million kunas or 1203 support were allocated to the project directly related to the economy and its promotion by women entrepreneurs, and this year it was reduced by 3 million kuna. So I ask you to act equally proactively in that sense, not retroactively. To be actively involved when deciding on those issues where women can achieve their existence, for example in this project intended exclusively for women that they can act economically and be independent in this regard. You said the same way that we should work on the economic empowerment of women victims of domestic violence, so I think this is also very important in this context. And I'll just look back at something you said, and it's about the Roma woman's problem. Therefore, it is not true that Roma women do not have the opportunity to educate themselves, but it is true that Roma women have the opportunity, however, unfortunately they do not participate in the process of education, i.e. they are small indicators, and we as a society must try to make it more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9014	Thank you very much to my colleague Glavak. We've completed the debate on behalf of the clubs, and now we're moving on to an individual debate. I'd like to invite Mr. Representative Damir Rimco, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9015	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys with co-workers. I'll try to focus more on my discussion, but also on a few questions. But before that, allow me to express my personal compliments for the excellent lecture of graduates at the Faculty of Law in Osijek that you held recently where you were with your associates, and the feedback I received that such a lecture was for the first time accessible to students and that they were very actively involved in their discussions. One more compliment for that activity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In fact, the law on gender equality would mean that women and men are equally present in all areas of public, social and private life, which unfortunately we have heard from previous exhibitors that is not the case, and that they have equal status, equal opportunities for achieving their rights and equal benefit from the results achieved which, unfortunately, is not so judging by these devastating results that you published in your report. In fact, if we compare 2010 and 2011 in 2011 there were about 1400 items from which only 32 cases were transferred from last 2010 which means that the new items are 1359 and if we compare this to the previous year we see an increase of almost 84%. Which means that the prosecutor for gender equality has been imposed as an independent body and that citizens are actually being released and that they are referring to their complaints in an ever-increasing form. Of the 308 cases analysed on the basis of discrimination in accordance with Article 6. Gender equality laws were found in 77%, without a basis of some 14%, sexual discrimination 5%, and marital and family status 4%, which is not negligible in any case. What is important to note is that the number of complaints did not increase compared to 2010 if we are talking about some statistically significant value and that it was 308 compared to 323, but there was an increase in the number of cases in which you have found discrimination as a defender by as much as 27%, which can already be interpreted as some kind of positive trend and will likely be significantly higher in 2012. What intrigued me personally in some way was the knowledge that, during 2011, you received complaints from all over the Republic of Croatia, but that the most complaints were actually from the City of Zagreb. Now, as Slavonac, I'm interested in whether there is no sexual discrimination in Slavonia, or if people don't dare report any complaints to you at all, because it turns out from statistical indicators if we ignore the City of Zagreb with almost 50% that in Split-Dalmatia County and Zagreb County, the Primorje-Gorski and Istrian County, means mainly the western counties of the complaints are about 5% to 6%. If you look to the east of Croatia, the complaints are reduced to 2%. If we interpret dry statistics it turns out that there is no complaint in eastern Croatia, that the situation there is ideal, but according to police administrations, it is not so. During 2011, there have been no procedures in place with the possibility of a non-judicial settlement, as well as cases of filing joint actions by the Advocate and your office. Now, about the centers, or the new Social Services, they almost always acted on the instructions that you provided them in the event of some conditioned failure or irregularities in their work. I'm saying, they mostly worked in accordance with your demands, but am I curious to know if the warnings and recommendations that you and your office send to the institutions are only for this particular center or for the office, or if, with respect for the confidentiality of the identity of persons in a specific case, the memo is sent to other centres as help in working in, say, similar situations? If that's not the case, I suggest that we think about some sort of modality and method of how to do it because I think it would certainly contribute to development because we would actually have one matrix on which other institutions, or centres, might work. A few words I want to say are also about the area where you get involved in certain disputes. The fact is that during 2010, you were involved in only 6 disputes, i.e. in 4 disputes over discrimination charges based on sexual orientation. On the other hand, about legal persons and discrimination, I wonder whether they will ever start with the initiative to publish legal persons who have found sexual discrimination in the workplace because I believe that in this way they would be forced and employers to change the policy of relations with women and which, of course, would be available to the public as well. What you have in your report on page 114 highlighted is, I quote, "How many counties are still in place in whose territory there is no shelter intended for victims of domestic violence." Let me remind you, this is about Krapina-Zagorska, Lika-Senjska, Virovitica-Podravska and Požega-Slavon County, so I'm curious about whether something was done? And what simply at the end of my presentation, I feel the need and as a representative but also as a man, to comment on it is the issue of sexual orientation and the fact that complaints based on it have a constant trend of growth. I am referring to my own question and, of course, to all MPs, are we really homophobic society or are we not? Because if you look at the trends since 2009, 2010 and 2011 the trend is positive. In 2009 4.4% of complaints, almost 9% in 2011. According to some knowledge, information in 2012 will be more than 12%. Where does that lead, and are we going back to the Inquisition age? Because on the basis of prejudice, we're willing to evaluate, judge and determine ourselves to someone just because of his sexual orientation. Or we simply stick our heads in the sand in front of problems that are increasingly evident, increasingly present. The social position of sexual and birth minorities, i.e. LGBT citizens in the Republic of Croatia, has not changed significantly since 2010 and remains very unfavourable, primarily because they are victims of violent abuses, as I have already said motivated by prejudice. What is important is to point out that the visibility of LGBT communities and their problems increased in 2011 primarily thanks to the activities of NGOs, or NGOs, which is also mentioned and commended by counterpart Roksandić in yesterday's debate on the work of the NGO sector in the report by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. Because NGOs are actually the bearers of the development of all democratic societies, so this should also be the case in the Republic of Croatia. The trend of increasing legal protection, gender and gender minorities within the international human rights protection system is particularly important. As regards primarily the scope of the rights enjoyed by these persons under the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Often violence and hate crimes against native communities and different sexual orientations testify in the Republic of Croatia about the existence of homophobia in the Republic of Croatia. And I suggest that you present a request in front of your office for analysis and sociobiologists, but also for scientists who deal with socio-evolution because this is definitely not good what happens in a young democracy like Croatia. We express this path and concern for the recent research that has been carried out, which you mentioned in your report on political literacy in the Republic of Croatia and attitudes towards the European Union, where almost 50% of respondents have shown that homosexuality is considered a type of disease, and over 60% estimates that homosexuals should be banned from public appearances. So the recommendation is to get these people, which is not, in any case, not the custom of developed democracy and Western Europe, both the United States and Canada, which are actually the most developed liquids of civilization today. Violence may be the most dramatic, but it is not the only example of discrimination faced by LGBT persons in Croatian society, because there is in fact a whole series of discriminatory obstacles, so it is also a significant number of employers who are prone to discrimination against such persons. From what you mentioned earlier in 2011, it became clear how an existing legislative framework currently based on the Law on the same sex communities. Such persons shall not be guaranteed a certain level of protection on which they are entitled under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the legal property of the European Union, which we have adopted as a state. The main reason for this claim lies primarily in the development of judicial practice, the European Court of Human Rights as the most judicial authority in the European Union and at the end of its address to the Croatian Parliament is a democratic rule to show whether or not I will support this report. I am taking the opportunity to say that I will support this report and as a person, it is acceptable and a suggestion of the conclusion that my colleague Ruža Tomasic has made, which you received on the benches, and once again I am using the opportunity to say this report I will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9016	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. I've been informing you that the time has elapsed to report a debate, individual debates over 10 minutes, and at the presentation of a fellow Roman, we have two corrections to an incorrect quote, and two replicas. First correction by Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9017	Thank you very much, sir, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow Roman, here I am yesterday in the D.A.'s report on people with disabilities. I said I'd keep repeating it. Yours is a completely incorrect allegation that this is about the D.A.'s D.A.'s office. In translation, disabled means incompetent, interrupted or invalid. So it's about the D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities, and that's true, and please remember that termology. People with disabilities, not disabled. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9018	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Mr. Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9019	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. He would like to correct a similar linguisticly false quote by his colleagues, which used the term LGBT citizens, NGOs etc. I want to correct them because the Croatian Parliament needs to be spoken in Croatian, and if we want to bring in more and more foreigners from any language, we will end up in such a way that we will not know in the end what kind of Parliament we are in, or what country we are in. So I want to draw attention to the need to speak Croatian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9020	Thank you very much. Replica, MP Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9021	Thank you. Here's exactly what I want to speak in Croatian. Lega, fellow Roman is about these relationships, same-sex relationships. So I'm going to say, "At first there was a word," and even in the Bible it's written, and in nature, that if the males and the males mated or the females with the females, I wouldn't be sitting here either. As far as this part of the analysis of the textbooks of science and the attorney's initiative for dialogue is concerned, I personally think it's about kinkyness, disease, that I don't want to use the word gay in the Croatian Parliament, that it's harder to be gay in the soul, but it's certainly not easy to be gay in this normal life. We don't have a Croatian expression for a lesbian yet. And if I were mayor of Split, I would also ban that parade, because first of all, if they like it that way, they can do it in their four walls and they don't have to drive 99.9% of Croatian citizens to anti-protests. As Mayor of Đakova, I would certainly not approve such a gathering, and I would certainly not help Mr Rajko Ostojić and, above all, the promotion of that kinkyness in the Republic of Croatia. We better watch how we're going to hire 350,000 unemployed than promote something that's a disease and it's kinky, because this is about gender equality and it's not about the same sex communities. And that's what makes us different, because this is primarily a Catholic country, a normal country, and it's not a country of gays and same-sex communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9022	My colleagues and colleagues, I remind you of the fact that this Croatian Parliament has passed the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and that, under the foundations of this law, discrimination is prohibited on any basis, especially in the Croatian Parliament. Replication response, fellow Roman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9023	I thank the esteemed vice president. Namely, I have no intention of a linguistic expression to look back, because in any case it's degutant. But I would remind the scientific facts by quoting an article published in the 2001 American Journal of Public Health magazine where it was found that between 1% and 3% of the population is homosexual, in every population, in every country, in every region. That it's 2.1% male, 1.5% female. That between 2 and 10% of subjects in one part of life had a homosexual relationship, that 20% of the respondents said they were growing and enjoying homosexual feelings. If we go to this analogy 10% of the population in the Republic of Croatia has homosexual tendencies. I don't see why my colleague Vinkovic felt called here. But if we use analogy, then there's also a particular population in this House or at least a sample of people who cultivate homosexual tendencies. And on the other hand, it is absolutely incorrect your claim that in the animal world there is no... sexual relations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has been concluded and proven scientifically, and I quote the scientific fact that homosexual behavior is widespread in animals, so I absolutely would not want to refer to your ethics anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9024	Thank you very much. Replica, representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9025	Thank you. I also wanted to refer to this use of these shortcuts. We otherwise used in some way the actual debate on the Ombudsman's report on gender equality to open some of his world-class topics that were not really the subject of this debate and to promote some of his world-class views, using TLGBT and gay concepts. I don't think the use of the idea of homosexuality offends anyone in any way. So, I don't think that's the sayings that I've been dealing with medicine, so I have no idea what they mean, and I don't think most citizens have any idea what they mean or don't need to know. I also didn't like it at all, it's one topic that often goes on about it, certain groups promote the thesis about the growth of violence and hate crimes and that it's actually the existence of homophobia, the growth of homophobia. They did well in some debates not here in the Parliament, and some referred before. There is no growth of homophobia in Croatia. I mean, at a time of Communism, these people were being shut down, so we can't say today if someone turns their back on someone to grow homophobia or to grow violence. I mean, certain delinquents do violence against any group or anyone regardless of whether it's anything. Therefore, I don't think there are any indications in Croatia that violence is growing aimed at any group or homosexuals. But on the other hand, the fact is that these marginal groups, in a way, actually, they're constantly trying to potentiate the problem, they're constantly creating it, they're constantly promoting it, and they're not really causing it, but they're actually deliberately creating tension where there's no tension in this society. This society has no problem with homosexualism, but there is no need for certain groups to create it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9026	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Agent Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9027	My dear colleague, I am saddened by the fact that you haven't actually understood my debate. It's your right not to know, it's every single person's democratic right to understand or not to understand certain things. This was not a question of worldview, but I wanted to point primarily to a homophobia that is all around the Republic of Croatia and the fact that hate crimes occur. Hate crimes were to be forgotten in the early 20th century. But judging by some of the parliamentary deputies' statements, it is obvious that hate speech is still present in our society. On the other hand, in my debate, I ended up believing that the vast majority of MPs and I realized that the existing legislative framework no longer corresponds to neither the European rules nor the European acquis that we signed and accepted as the Republic of Croatia when entering, or ratification of this part of the European Union. It is not my fault that we signed it, it is not my fault that we have adopted the law of the European Union and the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, but that is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9028	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. I call on Representative Boris Blazekovic, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9029	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This is another one of the reports that we all accept in principle, but I do not accept, most of us do not accept the state of the report, and therefore more or less we all refer to ourselves in the state of the report, and less to the report itself. Looking at statistical data, one would say that the situation is relatively good in Croatia, because only about 0.1% of people reported to the prosecutor for gender equality that their rights were at risk, which would not be a large number, although it is a large number. And that 0.01% is a large number when one human right is compromised is a large number. But I think it is still important to inform the public of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens that there are places where they can turn if they feel and if they really are or if they feel that they are at risk of human rights, so I am pleading on the increased truly speaking marketing activity around the work of all defenders and so are the lawyers for gender equality. I'd refer here to three, I thought of two, and now I'm going on three subjects. The first topic would be research conducted by the Advocate's Office on Women's and Men's representation of management and management positions in business entities of the Republic of Croatia where it has shown that women are significantly under-represented in a large number of cases in the Croatian labour market and at all levels of participation from regular jobs through management positions to participation in administrative and supervisory bodies. Women make up only 19% of management members and only 9% of women are head of the administration. Only 20% of women are board members, 11% head of the board, although women in the Republic of Croatia make up most of the highly educated population. In the case of entities that are mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia or legal persons with public affairs, this includes those data. While in the private business entities participating in the study, women occupy 36% of the leading positions, and 20% of the top-level management positions to state public business entities, women occupy significantly less than 27% of the leading positions and 19% of top-level managers. This also points to the need to apply positive measures to create the possibility of harmonising family and professional obligations, including measures to achieve a more uniform distribution of domestic, family affairs between men and women. I think this last sentence is best understood by women. The other thing I'd like to say about is domestic violence. It is amazing that today in Croatia, during the second decade of the 21st century, we are still discussing problems of domestic violence. It seems to me that there is much more violence in families than in this report at all, and that is something special research should be devoted to. I think that there is also the report, but also the knowledge that a man can collect on the ground that Roma women are particularly at risk and that this is one special topic that we all need together with the National Strategy for Roma that particular attention should be paid to status and education and education and further education of women romantic women in order to make violence against women romances any less. And now we come to this third story that I didn't mean to speak at all, but the language we just heard in this House is something that is absolutely by my deep conviction unacceptable. It is said in my family in my society that it is unmanned, rude, thus not communicating with anyone or anywhere, let alone in the Parliament. A certain number of people out of ignorance, uninformedness, a complete lack of understanding of the problem of stupidity really thinks that the homosexual population is jeopardizing anyone and endangering anything. Some groups even think it's good that it's popular, that it's in to kick especially men's same-sexed people and that it's something to do. This expression, as we heard today in the House, encourages this very way of expression. Violence against these people. That's inadmissible, that's what we, as Parliamentarians, represent all the citizens, who represent the state simply cannot allow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9030	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First of all, Mr. Representative Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9031	Thank you... So, a colleague was talking about domestic violence. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] I agree, and I'd still be replicating myself, and I think there's plenty of room for Croatian society and a repressive apparatus if you want to be significantly effective in preventing domestic violence. Violence in the family is a lot, a good part of these incidents and unfortunate situations are not even recorded, and very often it happens and is still happening that inadequacy and under-effective sanctions are being sanctioned by domestic violence. Otherwise, we have a problem in effective sanctioning general violence and domestic violence. And in this country, the fact is that violence is easily tolerated, so it's easily tolerated when someone slaps someone on the street, so that's what happened. And these events are easily accepted, and surely there is plenty of room in society to be significantly stricter and more effective in sanctioning this violence. And it happens that bullies apply to the family once, twice, three times eventually because... And you end up beating up a woman. [[The speaker talks fast, he doesn't understand.]] And it's really inadmissible. And now to refer to violence against homosexuals. No matter how many fans you beat up in the stadium, whether you beat up heterosexuals, homosexuals or vice versa. So don't constantly promote and potentiate violence in the direction of certain groups, and this is systematically done in this society. You guys who keep potential, you're actually kind of calling it. So don't keep up with each other, young people get together, we have a lot of violence today among young people, we have family, so they're delinquents, delinquents are delinquents, they beat whoever they catch up with. And don't create climates in this society that there's something that's not there, and some people would like there to be something that's not there. And why keep creating the climate negative in this society about the existence of something Here, thank you. I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9032	Thank you very much. The answer of my colleague Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9033	Thank you very much. I recommend that my colleague take a look at the footage from last gay arrival in Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9034	Thank you very much. Another replica, Zoran Vinkovic, representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9035	Democracy is also in the Croatian Parliament by expressing its own opinion, not party opinion. So gay in English means cheerful, happy. I don't know how different if in Croatian gay, I don't know how to translate it, I'm sure such a member and I don't think you've ever said that someone is gay, but in any case my speech wasn't a hate speech. I apologize to my colleague, it was my lapus that Croatia is a Catholic country, Croatia is a country of all citizens and citizens, regardless of nationality, but most Croatian citizens are Catholics. Most citizens. I said about the same-sex communities that I don't mind doing it in my own four walls, in a rented apartment, I don't know where, but I think the place of such parades isn't on the street because it's a provocation of almost 99% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what I can't accept as a man, not as a Catholic, not as a politician, and in any case I wouldn't accept as the mayor of one city, and I wouldn't give permission to have such a parade organised in the heart of Slavonia in Djakov, in the archdiocese Đakov. And if it comes to anyone, I also said that neither the political conflict that is happening in Split would surely help that one such parade, regardless of what the Minister of Police would say, to make such a parade in Djakova. I also believe that this parade is not the place in Split because it is the provocation of 90% of Split. I don't know if my speech was a hate speech or a speech of what's called democracy in the Croatian Parliament, and I assure you that 90% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9036	Time's up! A colleague of Vinkovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9037	And even 90% of the citizens of the Kukuriku coalition, you just can't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9038	Thank you very much. I would normally ask you to stick to the time provided for the replica or correction of the incorrect quote. Replica response, Agent Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9039	In my deep conviction, the replica of an esteemed colleague was a complete misunderstanding of that subject at all. It would be good to read a little bit about what's going on, to read about the history of movements, homosexual movements in the world, and then they'll probably understand why it promotes this kind of human tendency everywhere in the world. Because historically, and even today, as you prove, those 10% that you don't think have certain rights, they almost don't have the right to publicize their views, these 10% of people are at risk both in the world and in ours. In the modern world, modern democracies are much less, somewhere in general, and we are greatly threatened by the behaviour of communities. One is, for example, the mayor of the city of Djakov who would simply not allow such people to walk on the road and to rejoice and promote a certain kind of love. I'd ask that these things be spoken of if they were to take some books, to read something, and then they'd understand what it was about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9040	Thank you very much. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9041	On behalf of the HNS club, the Liberal Democrats are looking for a brief break. We want to show ourselves about these homophobic outbursts of colleagues in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9042	Okay, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9043	The HDSSB Club is looking for a break from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9044	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9045	The Croatian Labour Club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9046	Okay, thanks. So, here you go. National minorities, okay. Thank you very much. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Now I'm going to give my word to the representatives of the clubs who asked for a break. In the name of the CNS, first of all, Mr. Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9048	... And who should be ashamed of us all! [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] We heard the homophobia, we heard the prosaclouse, we heard the simplest, we heard the leprosy expressions of the people, we heard something that is not worthy of the worst beer, let alone institutions such as the Croatian Parliament or any other public institution in this country. What we heard today in the Croatian Parliament is contrary to all laws, primarily common sense and decency, but it is also contrary to the Croatian Constitution, with Croatian laws and with all international conventions and declarations signed by the Republic of Croatia, which at least pretend to stick to. We heard another scandalous thing today in the Croatian Parliament, we heard the mayor of one city calling in advance for a ban on public gathering of citizens seeking their political rights. Shall we ban unions? We want teachers, shipbuilding people, Kamensky workers? Whom will we ban all public gatherings because we don't like what they have to say? Who are we going to let our colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament? The question we are discussing is not a question of likeness or dissatisfaction. We all get into our four walls, that's what you like to tell people, in our four walls we have the right to like or not to like whatever we want. But we are representatives of Croatian citizens here, we are representatives of the Croatian state based on international human and civil rights, on laws, regulations, common sense and respect for individuals, respect for each other. And these turns out we really can't afford. What we are discussing right now is the question of our fundamental humanity, our ability to even disagree, that even if we don't like being able to humanely enable our fellow citizens and fellow citizens to have rights, allow them to organise their lives in the way they want or only how they can in situations where they have no choice to organise their lives differently to enable them in accordance with all the rules of humanity and common sense. This is not a question of our personal opinion, this is a question of our humanity and our ability to be human. And that is why colleagues and colleagues I am asking you to strongly condemn these truly leprosy outbursts that we witnessed today in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9049	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you all, especially those of you who will now step forward in the name of the clubs you asked for a break, to calm down our passions. There is no need for us to yell at each other, there is, of course, the need to always say our views, and we will make it possible, but to yell at each other, to raise a tone, really, it doesn't really make any sense. On behalf of HDSSB colleague Vinkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9050	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, but also Croatian citizens and citizens. This isn't about any dirty outbursts, homophobia, condemnation of political thinking. Because my colleague Coleman, I'm not a commoner, I'm not a homophobe, unlike this speech of yours, which is hate speech, violence against all those who think differently of you. It speaks more of you than of me. I've brought only one political thought here. Thinking about which we don't all have to agree. Yes, as mayor of a city called Djakov, which is an archbishop city, I would forbid one such procession. A procession to be followed by the police, a procession to be followed by intervention forces from whom? Not from the mayors of Split, Djakova, but from citizens whom I did not invite or to be in the process of provocation surrounded by barricades, surrounded by intervention police, or invited others to watch, participate, beat, stone or do not know what. If you like it, go to the procession, I don't like it. I'm asking what would happen if the Bad Blue Boys in Split organized a similar procession? Or Torceid in Zagreb? Before the big derby. What would happen? Well, I think anyone would have a reasonable man to ban these kinds of processions. Because there would be violence. One group of people cannot influence and provoke another by their provocation, in this case a far larger group and population structure. You mention the Croatian Constitution, the European laws, the EU, the rights – I support absolutely every right not in four walls, but I note that at least I am not so raised, and I was raised Christian that it is unnaturally and nowhere in nature, there are certain surveys, but in a very small percentage they have shown among hyenas whether it will be this and use it and say that I am trying to call members of the same sex communities hyenas I do not think so, but very little. But no little hyena was born from that relationship nor was any child born from the relationship between a man and a man, except in the film "Twins" or born from the relationship between a woman and a woman. As a political party, we oppose same-sex communities, the adoption of children in same-sex communities because we believe that it is not in the spirit, nor in the Croatian people, but also in the spirit of the Croatian Constitution. No matter what you think. And allow the ladies and gentlemen to both democracy and expressing their own opinion, that your own opinion is not to call on the lynch, armed conflict, to throw stones, bombs, and I don't know what, be assured of that. Nor will I go to any parade, and as far as the world's parade is concerned, they certainly don't keep themselves this way, they certainly don't keep themselves as they are. By deliberately provoking a smaller group of people, and as for others, would you forbid a gathering? No, I didn't ban the assembly of workers of Đakovština, but you sent the intervention police to the workers of the Adriatic Stone. That's enough talking about what I'm talking about and what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9051	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9052	Final sentence. In Croatian there are no other substitutes for gay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9053	Time, buddy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9054	Happy, happy if you prefer it I can call members of such communities happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9055	Thank you very much, colleague Buric. Thank you very much. The correction came through, the correction of Mr. Representative Lucin's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9056	Thank you very much. So I correct the incorrect assumption that the right to express my personality and to demand certain rights and when it comes to the gay population is not in the spirit of the Croatian Constitution. It is actually in the spirit of the Croatian Constitution because the Croatian Constitution says: "That all citizens of this country, regardless of sex, and sexual orientation, faith, the nation have the same rights, and then have the same rights"... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You see, in fact, in short, I think the protests and that gay parades will be more and more needed, because actually this debate in the Croatian Parliament is evidence, that there is still a lot of homophobia in Croatian society and that we actually have to fight this homophobia. Now, if someone's afraid that a minority, even if it's related to sexual orientation, is expressing its position, then it's not the minority's problem but those who fear that statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9057	Thank you very much. During the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vinkovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9058	Thank you. Well, this isn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about your own opinion of a fellow Lucin who obviously likes the gay parade.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9059	Okay. Comrade Lucin, please. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Turn yourself in, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9060	... In 209 or I don't know which other article, but I quote my colleague, he said, "That's not in the spirit of the Croatian Constitution," and he added another thing that I didn't want to mention, which is, "That's not even in the spirit of the Croatian people." [[Specially enabled.]] Well, would you like to define to me what the spirit of the Croatian people is?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9061	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Grubisic volunteered for the replica, but you do not have the right, you do not have the right to the Rules of Procedure, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Vinkovic has exhibited on behalf of the club. Here, thank you very much. And we still have the correction of incorrect allegations, so counsel Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9062	The incorrect quote of counterparts Vinkovic is that the gay procession in Split, which will take place in Split, is provoking anyone. Because he said it was a provocation, no. Prognoctors are those who will eventually try to prevent them from, in a peaceful way, civilised manner according to what they say, not to repeat, what is common in civilized and democratic countries, to present their opinion. Okay, o right to diversity and nothing else. In all normal countries, according to such statements of their position, as it may be, reacts normally, civilizedly, and not in any other way. So, no one is provoked, it's the provokers who don't let them express their opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9063	Thank you very much. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, Agent Zeljko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9064	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Vinkovic, who stated that we sent the police to the workers of the Adriatic Stone, it is simply not true, and his colleague Vinkovic knows that the intervention police intervened according to the order of the court, even though you advocate the right to speak, then you must also advocate that the institutions are doing their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9065	Thank you very much. I once again appeal to my colleagues and colleagues for a dignified debate on this report. I'm afraid we're slowly moving away from the essence of what the report says. I appeal to a toleranceal debate, of course, that it is the essence of democracy, that everyone in Parliament has the right to express their opinion, to say their opinion, but I ask that it really be in one democratic atmosphere. I now ask representatives of the Croatian Labour Club, party of work, Mr Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9066	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. I have so many rights and so many rights go to me until I endanger your rights, that's basic human right. A hundred years ago, women began to fight the oppression of men, hundreds of years ago, women organized themselves and set off on the streets. And a hundred years ago, men used to say the same thing as we say in the Parliament today, that it was a group that threatened someone's rights. First of all, every right, every community, every minority, every right to gather, the right to protest, and the right to parades. When I spoke to opposers of gay parades, I asked those who spoke loudly to irritate them, which irritated you by someone's protest, which is why you generally pay attention to those people you don't share your opinion with. I never got an answer except for those answers that weren't addressed to this pay phone. First of all, we advocate the Croatian Labour Party for Full Freedom, for freedom of expression of thought, and also for freedom of expression of the thoughts of those who are against gay parades by being against expressing thoughts that motivate or brave people to cause hatred or brave people to cause violence. They also have the right to protest those who are against the gay parade but also without hatred and without violence. That's why we can be different worlds, but we have to tolerate each other, and it's not meant for this speaker to say that something should be banned just because it's different. Now one of the wings that I was in the '68s, '60s popular, but I don't think it's a waste to keep in mind, which is "We're making love, not war."
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9067	Thank you very much. And yet on behalf of the National Minority Club, MP Nexhat Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9068	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So we felt the need to join the invitation to interrupt today's session of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia precisely because of the course that today's debates have taken place. We join the condemnations of those who slowly turn this into something unserious and the integrity of this House should be preserved and there are already initiatives that we will vote and make some rules about how we will behave here at all. But I wouldn't go back to these things we were already talking about. I'd like to remind you that today we've heard two things that have not particularly disturbed me but simply that don't stand. Croatia is not a Catholic country, Croatia is a country of religious freedom. So that's what it says in our Constitution, that's what our law says. Of course, most of the population is Catholic religion. This is not slow, but you will allow me to say that this country has contracts with many religious communities, and I would ask that we do and contribute to the fact that even with those smaller religious communities, this country has a contract and that the chance for those who have even more different thoughts and an even different membership as far as religion is concerned. So we have full freedom of religion and we cannot say in this House something that does not say that Croatia is a Catholic country. Finally, the president of this country, as far as I know, is declared agnostic. So we have a Catholic country in which the president of the state is not Catholic. The second thing, discussions related to Croatian language. Of course, we would all like to speak not only Croatian but to speak a lot of languages to speak them correctly according to grammar rules, but you will also allow me to conclude that in the Croatian Parliament and that many national minorities whose mother tongue is not Croatian live in Croatia. If we respond to every word that comes from someone who will judge other than the profession, say Serbian or Bosnian, or from Roma or Italian, what will we interrupt the sessions that we all need to learn to speak Croatian literary language. What about a colleague of Furia Radin who speaks Italian as a mother tongue? Most of you debaters speak or use or paraphrasize Latin words very often, shall we forbid it? These Latin languages are not often translated, so they are thought to know them. So, to finish, let's go back to the serious problems this country has, let's not waste any time on any outsmarting and bickering that are absolutely irrelevant. This society has much bigger problems than things have been said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9069	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Correction of an incorrect allegation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you very much. I suggest we move on to the debate. I give my word to the representatives of the Dunji Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9070	Thank you very much, Vice President. Advocacy, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll try to get things back to square one. The beginnings are family and school. And the school of distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs teaches us stereotypes. Analysis in Croatian schools has shown that men are brave, strong, wise and working, and women young, beautiful, gentle, valuable, caring, compassionate and solidarity. In the roles of the victims are more frequently shown, more often than men appear in combination with children. Certain behaviors or occupations are only suitable for girls or boys only. Girls should always be teachers, and boys should always be pilots or astronauts. Compared to men, the frequency of their appearance is significantly smaller, far more rarely appear as authors of texts or authors of texts, even thematically marginalized. First of all, mothers and then grandmothers are more often placed in the traditional middle of rural settlements. The role model of a woman is the role of a mother. It is located in a family where privacy, where it functions primarily as a parent and a parent, as a child care provider, who serves the family, who cooks, prepares the winter and processes the garden and primarily protects his family. Women appear extremely rarely in professional roles, and when they do, they are teachers, salesgirls, or housekeepers. Women are necessarily sensitive, godly, timid, contentious, and persistent in preserving love, friendship, patriotism, patriotism, and faith. Light and reckless is exclusively a woman, not a man who is determined, courageous, and shows leadership traits. The primary school readings support and promote gender stereotypes. Women are authors of lower-class readings, while men are authors of texts in higher-class readings. This example points to a stereotype view that women are more associated with younger children than men. Women are marginalized and as subjects in readers, i.e. readers speak significantly less of them than men. For example, in readers male characters appear as doctors, and women as nurses, sending a message to students and students about the higher position of men in professional life. In promoting values, gender inequality is also seen. Namely, the values most often associated with female characters are children and family, while male characters are most often reunited with patriotism, education, but also with knowledge. This data suggests that the values of female characters are aimed at private spheres, children and family while men are left with public spheres and professional life. More attention is given to male characters while women are most often portrayed as mothers, which indicates a very stereotyped view of women who do not take into account their specific interests and abilities, but lowers them solely and exclusively to the role of mother. More importance is given to marriage than to other forms of family life, so the extramarital community or divorced families are rarely mentioned. Even students and students according to the study perceive that women are most often depicted as beautiful, gentle, hardworking, obedient, sensitive, sacrificial, and humble, and their main characteristics are passivity and focus on pleasing others. In the opinion of students and students, male characters are portrayed as courageous leaders, strong, hardworking, and smart. So the traditional lifestyle that includes family with children is promoted and is offered to young people as a desirable model of behavior. Let's simplify, woman equals family man equals job. How do you change a picture like this? It should promote equal representation of women and men in school textbooks, avoid traditional ways of showing men and women, use native sensitive language in textbooks, address in male and female gender. Teachers and teachers should be educated on gender equality and critical attitude towards birth, stereotype content in continued use. Teachers should avoid applying double standards for girls and boys. We need to educate students and pupils about gender equality, or we need to return to civic education. Already in kindergartens and elementary schools should work to establish the principle of gender equality. It is necessary to promote the principles of gender equality and through higher education for persons who are trained for the profession of teachers, i.e. teachers, professors, teachers, or teachers, or raisers, so that they continue to promote those principles in their further work and education system. In one word, it is necessary to systematically educate workers, i.e. workers in educational institutions, in order to further promote gender equality principles, and to include the methods and results of such trainings in the Attorney General's Office's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9071	Thank you very much. A colleague of mine has requested a correction of the incorrect allegations to this exhibit by Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9072	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to correct an incorrect allegation of distinguished MPs where she said in her, listing an argument for her thesis, showing women as sisters, and men as doctors who imply higher, quoting the position in professional life. It's totally wrong to say something like that, because first it's true that most doctors and fewer doctors. And other than that, in no case is a higher position in a professional life. Sisters and doctors are co-workers. Today, nurses also have a degree study, which is also a formal education similar to that of a doctor. So something just happened, and it's showing one prejudice against one whole profession, and it's nurses, so I want to make it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9073	Thank you very much. We have three more replicas. Replica was first reported by representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9074	Thank you very much. I would just like to say one thing about stereotypes that may be indicative in some sense. I've recently been to the Criminal Court, and I've been waiting for a debate and I've been walking down the hall and I've seen, I've read the name tags on the door, and I've only read them as one curiosity. I was directed to see this, and I was interested in the official request of the court to answer me, and they say, "We are delivering data on the employees of judges and court recordsmen of the Criminal Court in Zagreb." In the Criminal Court in Zagreb, a total of 84 judges of which 9 or 10% are men and 90% are women are judges. In court there are 112 court records of which all women are just like one curiosity.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9075	Okay. You should get more information for the other courts. That's also interesting. Thank you. Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. No response to the replica? There isn't. The replica was reported by Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9076	Thank you. Well, here's what you've been talking to the MPs about birth stereotypes and gender equality. You've actually discovered the biological differences between men and women, genetic differences, and for you it's a birth stereotype. Well, it's not a birth stereotype between you and me that I'm taller and I can carry 30 kilos of bag and you can't and you can't do 50 push-ups and you can do 5. It's our biological differences. We're simply biologically different. Why would that be a birth stereotype? Why would a child stereotype be that a girl or a woman is young, gentle, caring and compassionate? Well, I'm neither gentle nor compassionate, I'm bald. So they're not stereotypes. Well, those are the biological differences between men and women. Why is that a problem? Is the difference between men and women a problem? Men and women are not the same; they are different. Why are the nurses' wives, here's a colleague... He mentioned to you, so because I can, God has given them that as women they can nurse sick people, and men are unsuccessful in that. [[You don't understand.]] And that is why there are no men, not because Croatian society is unfair to men but men are not biologically established to do these jobs. (Laughter) So don't mix biological diversity and the diversity of men and women with any discrimination. Well, this society isn't discriminatory in that respect, but we're just different. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9077	Thank you very much. I will now as chairman be put in the defense of men. I know a lot of men who are sensitive and gentle and caring. /The noise in the hall./... [[Applause.]] Here we have a reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9078	Thank you very much. Here's my esteemed colleague tried to follow your instructions to bring this debate down to one, but he went a little too far, so he came to a comical level. In fact, being gentle is really not the place to call it. However, I would warn you to listen carefully when your colleagues and colleagues speak in the Parliament. I was talking about the analysis of textbooks and the reading book in the lower and upper classes of elementary school, and the situation is, in fact, the way I cited it in the analysis. Well, then, refer to the analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9079	Thank you very much. We have another replica, Agent Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9080	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here I am, my colleague Spoljar noticed, you were talking about stereotypes, and of course you were also talking about that educational part of the school that you wouldn't get involved in, but I'm glad you mentioned the first time today in this country lady's meeting, and that's why I'm particularly glad to see these mothers and grandmothers that I welcome. I'm particularly glad because there's no mention of a village woman, and you've talked about traditional values, and in some ways I've seen it as something traditional, I understand somehow from your exposure that it's not good. [[Applause.]] Well, I think we should respect these differences anyway. We, for example. We have a choice in our Koprivnica and Križevci County for a model village woman, and that shows values that are respected, which are important, which are important. But I also want to tell you, if you're in favour of equality, I want to say that rural women today are in a very difficult situation when the situation in agriculture is as created as, when the support is reduced, when they can no longer produce because they are many and economies, holders of family farms. In this way, rural women are also in a very difficult situation today, and in that sense, I ask that you advocate equality and that part of the female population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9081	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9082	Well, I wouldn't even want to get a hold of it, but diversity, diversity and stereotypes really aren't the same concepts. And with regard to rural women and gender equality, last month in front of the Committee on Gender Equality, we had a lecture, a tribune, a meeting I don't remember seeing you representing the rights of women from the village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9083	It would certainly be good to see a choice for a model country man, for example, that's what I stand for. Let's move on with the debate. Representative Gordana Sobol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9084	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Attorney-General, Deputy Attorney-General and Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So we're actually having one of those lively discussions here in the Croatian Parliament today, and on the lawyer's report for the past year. Maybe it's also because after a long time we've been discussing this report in the morning hours, we usually discussed it somewhere in the afternoon, so it didn't seem so much of an interest. But let me put it this way for a few sentences, given that I have spent the past 12 years in this House and, somewhere since 2000, we have been witnesses here, some of us who are here in the Assembly, but also colleagues together with us, but those who have come to this House later, that the last 12 years, in fact, I would say, we are working or we have been making big changes, primarily in our legislation when it comes to gender equality. And since it wasn't easy at these beginnings, I dare say that in the end of that story, it won't be easy for us, and I would say that even today after so many years we're still far from ending such a story, or I'd say from what we've written down by colleagues and colleagues, by raising hands, so I'd say I dare show up in most things when it comes to gender equality by consensus in this House. The last Law on Gender Equality in the Croatian Parliament was passed by consensus, so in 2008. But I've always asked myself why and what's actually happening or doesn't work out in Croatian society, why, in fact, all previous reports by the lawyer for gender equality have ended up with similar examples, with similar remarks, with similar types of discrimination, with similar recommendations. To go now to take the reports of the last eight, that is, this is what I think the ninth report by the attorney for gender equality, you can find about the same suggestions, same comments, same recommendations, similar research results across different areas. It's just saying that what we brought here ourselves, what we've drawn ourselves, what we've raised our own hands for, we're not doing in real life. We speak one thing and more or less all of us stand for it, and on the other hand what statistics say, we don't find all these years of ways to change that picture, to change those defeated statistics. I say this because next year we have local elections and I will dedicate a few sentences to the participation of women, as we know to say, the political participation of women, i.e. the participation and participation of women in the sphere of public decision-making. Since 2003 there have been fewer and fewer MPs here in the Croatian Parliament. At the very least, we can say this, or the least said is the number of deputies stagniating. I remind you of the last parliamentary elections in the Croatian Parliament was directly selected by less than 20% of women, less than 20%. Today there are about 23% of us in the Croatian Parliament thanks to the replacements that a good part of our colleagues came in as replacements. What we will do together as Parliamentarians and MPs together with the Ombudsman, together with the competent government office, coordinators and coordinators that we have in our ministries, together with local committees, will do next year, and should, if I am not mistaken, start applying those provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, which speaks of a minimum 40% of both sexes, one sex or another on the lists for local elections. For our municipal councils, city councils and county councils. Because next year is the third election cycle and when the provisions of the Gender Equality Act start to apply. That's one thing. And secondly, how are we all going to ensure together that these 40%, and it will mainly be women because women are, in this case, sub-represented sex, how are we going to ensure that these 40% are not decorations on the lists in terms of being in the last rows, that the law is formally satisfied and that the list is then valid, or that the political party avoids paying the fine? When I say this after all these years, I'm saying this as a parliamentary representative to all of us and all of our political options. We have been content with one fact for years, which is unfortunately true that even as far as the number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament are concerned, we are a little bit more or at least at the level of the EU's average. Because in some ways today, when I look for an example at EU level, I can only talk about possibly Scandinavian countries, but all other countries are even worse than us. And what I sincerely hope next year Croatia will become a member of the EU, perhaps it will be an opportunity for our representatives and advocates in the European Parliament to fight for all those recommendations that go from EU level to national parliaments, and they are related to the participation of women in political life to stop being recommended already. The obligation to political parties is because they are the ones who make decisions on lists and people who will go to elections tomorrow. So to be mandatory according to, here we have this Law on Gender Equality, so to be obliged on their lists to have gender representation that will at least go according to what the Law on Gender Equality says. And our law speaks of something that one day should achieve the actual participation of women, or men in Croatian society. I believe that greater participation of women is at all levels, and especially when it comes to local levels where they are made, I would say the most important day-to-day decisions for the life and work of a community is an inevitable part of a society, a democracy of someone who wants to call themselves a democratic society or a civilized society. So this debate of mine is going in that direction because it would be kind of my call and my lawyer for gender equality and her associates that in the next period maybe, I'd say the biggest of my activities, dedicate it to these tomorrow's and next year's local elections because otherwise I'm afraid if we don't start, I'd say all possible machinery, if I can call it that in Croatia right now, and with all the shortcomings that this same machine has, so if we don't start that story now, I'm afraid that we're going to end up in a situation that a month before the election suddenly shows up and we come to such an excuse, so you know we really appreciate women, they're wonderful, they're beautiful. Then our fellow MPs will consider us fellow MPs to be completely equal, that we are good, etc., capable and all, but when it comes to saying and why aren't you on the lists of women? Well, you know, there's no women they don't want, we can't find them, etc., and especially when they say, you know, they're not enough, we need to find capable women, smart women, those who know how to do that job being a councilwoman in some community or some town. And then it happens to us that these women over the past month can't be found, and then a list of complete men for whom no one asks the same questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9085	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Sunhead, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9086	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Sobol, we've often heard here not only from you, but in the last session, of course, you've debated a lot about how good women are, how nice they are. So says one proverb: "May God protect you from evil women, but keep yourselves safe from the good. That's what we can talk about... That's right, there's a colleague who recognized it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And as for the political participation of women, so I talked about it and something on behalf of the club not only at this highest level. I'll give you an example of my city, so the town of Čakovec within the party election where I've been elected president of the city board, we've got five wheels and four wheels of water for a woman. So here's something we've started about it and I think it's something about this progress in political life. However, I will return to that thesis that women should have more executive functions. We always like to compare with Scandinavian countries. One car company, for example, very famous that now I don't advertise anyone, has, for example, 30% of women in management functions, and we're kind of a small step away from the D.A. will know what I'm talking about, so some actions. I think it should have been said here in the Croatian Parliament that some companies feel the need in Croatia in the same way to participate in the participation of women or in this sexual equality. And as for men and women, we're not going back to some of the topics that were used here and they've taken away our valuable time. The fact is, when a man comes to the phone booth, or when a man speaks, when he gets up, people listen to him first and then they look at him, and when a woman starts to talk to them differently, they look at them first, so if they like what they see, then maybe they'll listen to them. So let's do something so it doesn't happen anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9087	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9088	... So, what I can do now is just repeat it once again, and that is that the pain of all, the pain of our city or what is happening in Croatia, and it is now related to this report, which is for the past year. [[Specially enabled.]] And what I feel is that the past period has not been given enough attention or has not been devoted at all to what the reports say. The recommendations, remarks, or I would say so, basically in the report, since the Ombudsman has the opportunity to propose certain legal changes and changes related to the Law on Gender Equality. So far, there's been no hearing about it. I sincerely hope that we will take a slightly different path, so that what is in this report, and yesterday or the day before yesterday, she 2, or 3 reports from the other defenders, that she will find a way to which she should, and that is why we are all obliged to respect the law. The Law on Gender Equality is not perfect, but this law plus the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination as a roof law provides exceptional grounds and opportunities for all those remarks that each of the Advocates makes this time the Advocate for Gender Equality. So I can fix myself in the year behind that report. I am therefore pleased that the Government has announced in its opinion that, therefore, it will seriously consider all the objections made and announced and individual meetings at the level of certain bodies, to see what is what it says in this report and how and how it can be corrected. So I'm going to take the opportunity to say that I feel that this respects the wish of my colleague, Ruza Tomasic, with her conclusion, but I think that since the government has already announced such a thing, there will be an opportunity for the next report to be something different.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9089	Thank you very much. Another replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9090	Well, here's a big deal you'd agree with your colleague Sobol if it weren't for a woman who didn't really have that much politics, in the leading places, in the economy. But the most devastating thing will be if the number of women we have to solve exclusively by law and if these women just because women have to come to certain places. And so will the young, it will be the most devastating. Here's my proposal, first of all, to throw out the basis introduced by the National Committee on Gender Equality, is that women are a sub-represented sex. So, I think women are not sub-represented sex but are just equal. You mentioned local elections, so let's get out of that reward practically the 10% payments, the payments that political parties get by the person who's female and who enters the City Council. Here's what I think most of all, in the extreme line of insults and insults the very women who want to deal with politics. I really don't know, I listen to the speaker first, I hope women don't get mad at me for not looking at them first. But I don't know if our men's wives listen to us first and only then watch or vice versa? But I would like this report to address an important subject that is related to gender equality, which is primarily male and then female prostitution. Especially through some fashion agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9091	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of fellow Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9092	I'm guessing that the domination of men in politics isn't just because men are on lists just because they're men. Because here's the thing, I'd say one of those birth stereotypes that is created with age and in Croatian society, that it's a man to lead, to run, and then to be on lists and to make decisions. And that's what's normal and what's meant. We get sex by birth, but home society creates certain roles in terms of what is expected to one day a man will have to work, or what a woman will have to do. Our mission is to fight it and not to think and create such a climate in society and political parties, but now we have to put women on it just because they are women. Well, the legislator has given enough time, 3 election cycles as a kind of adjustment to political parties, that if you want to say through your political programme and what they are doing, what they are doing in Parliament or in the local community, and in their membership, a larger number of women. And then through that cycle, or through 3 election cycles, we come to the next year that within political parties and in membership within political parties we have a sufficient number of women, of which I am sure I can certainly fill out the lists. Therefore, in that sense, the legislator, as much as we liked it or didn't like it, how much we wanted to do things overnight, made it possible and now the question is how it will be implemented. That's why for about a year or less until the next election, I'd say to all of us in the best way to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9093	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. I give my word to Lidija Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9094	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed lawyers for gender equality with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, at first I want to commend the work of the office, primarily in the work that is related to research that is interesting. Although the report concerns the work of the attorney-general from last term, I believe we will be able to discuss more next year. I find it important to take this opportunity to discuss more in the Assembly the need to respect the Law on Gender Equality. In particular, as fellow Sobol said earlier, this law has been effective since the next local elections. We've been preparing and adapting for a long time, but I'm afraid we'll never be ready enough, and so is promoting that law ever enough. We can read from the lawyer's report that the most complaints refer to the achievement of labour and social rights, while citizens and citizens in a larger number complain about the conduct of state and public bodies with 57.1% compared to private-owned legal persons with 8.8%. It could be concluded from the above that there are several violations of the law in state and public services, however, I believe that the reasons are different in nature. In state and public services, employees feel safer and more protected, hence the courage to apply. In the private sector, unfortunately, the uncertainty and likelihood of getting fired is greater, so the violation of the law is less and less reported. However, this is not an excuse, since public institutions should be an example of respect for the law, so the number of applications should be expected to be negligible. Although women make up the majority in the highly educated part of the report's population, we see that they are still sub-represented in management positions both in private companies and in public, indicating discrimination in career advancement. Studies have shown significant sub-representation of women in the most responsible positions while in private business entities women occupy 23% of top-level management positions. In state or public business entities, women are represented with significantly smaller 19%. On the other hand, the share of women in entrepreneurship is about 30% and its growth trend is noticeable, while women-owned businesses have been better equipped with the crisis and recession. The data on the pay gap which is at the expense of women, of course, of which previous colleagues and colleagues have already spoken, but I think it is particularly important to point out, and according to the latest data from the State Department for Women's Statistics, on average, there are about 10% lower average net earnings on the labour market compared to men, and on average there are about 6 and a half thousand kuna on average. The notion of our society, which has also been spoken of today, can also be said: in the business world, a man who has a family is considered serious and responsible, while on the other hand a woman who also has a family and children is considered unreliable, it is expected to have a bigger break from work because children could get sick on the road, and it is known who in such cases is going to get sick. For this reason, a woman is considered less desirable as an employee without talking about the threat if a woman wants to become pregnant. So we can conclude that as a society, we are still far from real understanding of equality despite the law and strategies. So we have to keep talking, we have to warn, at the same time insisting on law-abiding so that our society gradually resolves prejudice and stereotypes. And with homophobic outbursts like we just had the opportunity to hear here, I don't think there's room in the House, so this way I call for more tolerance and understanding, and I hope that these same homophobic outbursts won't be the only topic in media transmission and the only message from today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9095	Thank you very much. On your exhibit we have one replica, representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9096	Homophobia could mean something else to a man. Because the homo homos of lupus est, but I, as a man, fear first and foremost the bad people of those who don't think for themselves. So those are the ones I'm afraid of exclusively. Dear colleagues, you mentioned violence, so don't continue to commit violence on me. But so far, no one in the assembly has talked about one of the violence that happened, and I'm going to turn that over to the attorney general who happened during the Homeland War in Vukovar. So I'll just read what it says in a particular court file, where a member of the Chetnik volunteer organisation S.H.I.E.L.D. said in a statement. He says it was 6.4.91. I saw a number of men among them who were on six buses, so when I heard from them that they all volunteered as volunteers who wanted to participate in the fight against Ustasha, I joined them. When I was in Vukovar, I raped about 30 women. It was about 40, 45 to 50 years old. Only one of them was 16 years old. We used to rape in a small store near a park near a hospital in Vukovar. Women's persons were brought to the pai store. The women were moving towards the store in front of him, and he followed them with a gun in his hand. He never brought them tied up, some cried, some didn't. Some resisted, and during the rape, two held hands one by the feet. In all these cases, rapes were involved by our group of about 9 to 10 men. After that, I'd kill some women from a gun, and some I wouldn't kill, but I'd keep them in my room. These women have been looking for justice for 20 years, and you say I cut it short. [[/Upadica Batinić: Time for a colleague Vinkovic. Cut it out.]] Here's the short one. I'll hand that over there. I hope this isn't a homophobia either, and I'm not going to be declared by a certain club as a lowlife and a homophobia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9097	We have a reply to the replica of MP Lidija Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9098	Thank you. Dear colleague Vinkovic, if you have listened well to my debate, I have not mentioned in one word the word violence, and this second part of your replica is essentially not about my presentation, so I would not like to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9099	Thank you very much. Further to the debate of MPs, Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9100	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Attorney General with his associates. I've decided I don't know how many times to discuss this. For a time, I was not a representative, I was in executive power, and I tried to do better to discuss this problem, which we are discussing today by reading this report here and in the second pillar of the government, to contribute to the adoption or writing of the Law on Gender Equality, Discussing Discrimination, and others. At the beginning of his political career, so after the '95 elections. in the Croatian Parliament we were also in this mandate, and then in the next discussion on the problems of discriminating discrimination or all the problems that we are discussing today, we can say that through all those years, at least as far as the debate in the Croatian Parliament is concerned, we have moved significantly. But I think, in society, what's real is that we didn't get away with much, that we didn't take big steps. What is the fact that today, in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, little one dares to speak in such a way that he discriminates against others, especially when we speak of the sub-represented sex, then we always talk about women because it is especially the fact that men in political life discriminate against women. But the big question is, and I put it in front of all of us first of all, how full and real candor is it? So, because we're talking about involving life in the world of work, the equality of women in the labour market, we're talking about equal salaries for the same work, equal pensions for the same time spent on work with the same successes, with the same education, often times with greater education, and these are facts. We are talking about the equality of men, or fathers, husbands in family life and certainly the participation of women in political life. But what I find particularly important in the media treatment of men and women in every area of life, especially in politics. That's why I'm going to talk about it, but first of all, I'd like to commend the research conducted by the Attorney's Office. They are extremely important for all decisions that we will first of all make in the Croatian Parliament, which will be made by the Croatian Government and I believe a very clear way to continue the work of the Advocate's Office or one day by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. I'm glad there are a lot of MPs involved in this debate today. That's not how it was in some past days. Women used to argue mostly. Ladies and gentlemen, what I particularly want to warn you about is about the Attorney General's report is violence, domestic violence and violence against women. Why am I just warning at this hour? It is time for the crisis, Croatia is again in recession as we all hear, an industrial decline of 9.4% is recorded, a decline in the first quarter to 2%, etc. People are hard to live in, and there is always a situation where a new area is hard to live in, and unfortunately, good and suitable ground for the awakening of domestic violence. What is also a great danger for media and politics not to pay enough attention because we always have better things to do, we always have more important things to do. And for domestic violence and that's the fact that violence against women and children still many in political life think it's something that happens behind four walls behind closed doors, that it's something that a family thing that the state and politics shouldn't particularly deal with. I think exactly the opposite. This is very much the subject of policies that the Croatian Parliament and the Government must deal with, and in particular the ministries that are responsible for the implementation of the Protocol on the control of violence but also of all national documents. I think we need to do more to condemn every violence, every violence against women. I have repeated a thousand times, especially on appropriate days such as the 22nd National Day of Combating Violence against Women, but also many other days, that no man who wants to be something in political, social so in any area of life in Croatia can be anything and is nothing and is nothing at all if he beats his wife or if he is a family bully at home. Because, of course, violence must be projected not only to slap a woman if she oversteps the measure, but also to economic violence that is very pronounced especially at a time when hard to live. I'm going to mention something that may naturally make me laugh, but I'm used to it as a woman in politics. It's time for a big football party. Yesterday I listened to a radio so teasing, the jumpers, the leaders who are considering what women in Croatia are going to do, since of course, logically all the men will be in front of TVs and now there were suggestions for women to shut themselves in the bathroom, there were suggestions for women to put on a patch that we had already had a chance to hear. And I warn of one fact that is certainly part of the statistics on violence against women, that we have had examples during some other past football championships of various kinds, that we have certainly recorded violence against women, and that in one case we have observed it in fact, that the husband threw the woman out the window because he spoke too much while he was watching an important game. Ladies and gentlemen, that's something Parliament should be very concerned with. So by finishing this part of the debate, I say once again, without the figurines in our pocket, we talk about violence, about men who harass their wives, their partners, their children and their families. As far as stereotypes are concerned, especially stereotypes in the media have been here over the past few years since that famous debate when our colleague was offended by those mattresses and wise men so far has not changed much. So we're talking about stereotypes, when our colleague insulted our representative, colleague Vesna Pusic. I was also among those who responded. And so a fellow man told me anyway, I said this happened to her today, tomorrow it's going to happen to me. My colleague said no if you behave properly. And that's something that I just remembered today because, even as the Croatian prime minister, I have had the opportunity to testify many times about what you're writing about in your report. So about stereotypes in public life about stereotypes in the media. I will mention, I think that this is allowed in this debate and that no one will take me for harm, since the Ombudsman also lists some examples from the daily papers, or from electronic media, that when I negotiated with my colleague, Pahor, to resolve an extremely difficult, important issue, the border issue that was standing on the table or in the drawer unsettled for 18 years, so the question of the border that was the key to the continuation of the negotiations and to the conclusion of Croatia's entry into the EU was constantly bombed by frightening stereotypes. So all the media that would follow our meetings, our meetings, focused first and foremost on the outside, did we kiss when we met, did we shake hands, who stood on which side, how we looked at each other, etc. I noticed in political life, not only in Croatia but also in the world, that men politicians, prime ministers, when they meet kiss, hug, tap their shoulders and that no one or almost nobody comments on it in this way, commenting on the meeting of the two prime ministers of which is one of the wonders of women. And that's what I'm saying because I think and that in this debate we have to warn if we want to, and I agree here with my colleague Sobol and all the others who have warned about the provisions of the Gender Equality Act in this election cycle that is ahead of us where we have to reach 40% of the sub-represented sex, so women. How and how we will come to this at all if we do not react sharply and together always to this type of stereotype that restricts women's political life or greater representation, greater women's participation. Unfortunately, my time is up, I'd have so much to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9101	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Representative Zoran Vinkovic first called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9102	Dear Representative Kosor, I agree with you that any kind of violence against women should be condemned, but I also believe that in this report we really should have talked about a taboo topicary report, which is rapes in the Homeland War. And I hope I don't interrupt this minute and 35 seconds as long as I have because this is a testimony, and there are such testimonies on this paper for a few women who have been seeking justice for almost 20 years. I was extremely embarrassed, not as a homophobe under quotes, as some want to cross me here, but simply as a man, and the same mayor who would forbid a process of pride, but I don't know what else to call it, it's really embarrassing when one of these women is, it's the Association of Women of the Homeland War said at one event that she never forgets in Djakov that neither the Croatian government nor the state's attorney, the Croatian Parliament and that for them all MPs are the same, that no one has done anything to shed light on this issue and consider that ultimately all those who committed this serious crime against women, but also because there were rapes and men in the Homeland War, in the strictest way of convictions. I felt extremely uncomfortable, and I didn't feel like a member of a political party, but I felt simple as a man, a representative who was elected by the citizens, who, and all of you, these women absolutely don't trust because we didn't do anything to move this issue and eventually bring the guilty to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9103	Thank you very much. My colleague, Iron Flego, has announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9104	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I'll read you article 210. Rules of Procedure. The speaker can only speak...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9105	Comrade Flego, you must first state what hurt your colleague, which article.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9106	Article 210, I read 210. Article 210 was injured, which is why I'm reading it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9108	The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. Mr. Chairman, here we are attending discussions on 2005, '95, '97, discussing the 2011 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9109	Col. Flego, my colleague Vinkovic did not hurt his Rules of Procedure, item 210. Col. Vinkovic talked about what he has today, he's back in history, that's facts. I am convinced and I hope that the prosecutor for gender equality will do the same, but I also trust in the rule of law of Croatia. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... We have a reply to the replica, Vice President Kosor. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree, colleague Vinkovic, this is the topic we should discuss today. It is regrettable that this has not been discussed before, it is unfortunate that all those who should have done something have not done it because I think we should discuss it more, and also in this report on the problem of raped women in general, especially those who were the most severe victims of the most severe violence and actually the most cruel criminals. So I believe that, above all, Ms. Attorney General will take this debate into account. What my colleague Vinkovic points out is something to talk about and work about and try to run something through the office, but I also expect the state's attorney's office to come forward. I have information from the media, like all of you, that that was the case, that was the case, but I'm advocating the same way that we're all faster and more effective because these victims are very much crying out for the truth, and then for justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9111	Thank you very much. We have another replica, attorney Gordana Sobol. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9112	Thank you. So here's to a little bit of support for this part of the discussion about the media and how our media sees women, the role of women, the position of women in Croatian society. The latest example gives us the main office of HTV Bruno Kovacevic, so television, so the public media, a public service that is all satisfied and overjoyed by the public, especially the women's part and the public, says: as far as the football championship programme is concerned, we booked the entire afternoon and evening for the European Championship from June 8th to July 1st, and the second programme from July 27th to August 12th is dedicated to the Olympic Games. The first programme, at least I predict, will be more pursued by the female population during the summer. Every night all summer girls, women, mothers still missing only queens have the opportunity to watch a movie and it's great at 21 o'clock, and then there goes Dnevnik and after what women love watching Sex and the City, and then another love movie. The main editor-in-chief of our Public Television programme Bruno Kovacevic made a nice public statement in an interview with his head and beard. I also saw that the lawyer in her statement had responded. So, the public television which is one of the other and the task of removing these stereotypes that we're talking about today is just women, mothers, sisters, daughters you're too stupid to watch football, to participate in cheerleading, not to give God and comment on some football games it's reserved for your husbands and here you have the opportunity to deal with what's most, i.e. watching pets, sex and the city, consumer society, ironing cards and similar things. I believe that this year we will have an HTV report between us and the part that concerns gender equality issues, and that this will also be an opportunity to talk about such stereotypes that are going public for the past year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9113	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. Vice President Kosor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9114	Of course because those men who were able to throw women out the window if they were bothered or, there was one commercial a few years ago if, perhaps, someone would remember, a commercial that I personally intervened on, and then after a relatively short period of time and was removed from the ad just for a football championship where the woman was, you remember the colleague, the woman was, I guess it was supposed to be a good joke, the woman was tied to the toilet and they were taped shut. And that's how one football championship was advertised. It was, of course, something that we could really call the bottom of every bottom. However, when we talk about stereotypes here and football it is amazing that rarely anyone in public life, especially in the media can even imagine that women love watching football games, that women are very much watching football, that women know a lot about the Croatian team, but also about Spain, about who is the best and best football player in the world, who is the best coach, etc. After all, football is so interesting, I can say that since I was also the president of a women's football club, that women are really not behind in anything, so they're both great football players and I believe that HRT's editor-in-chief will respond to this and maybe prepare us some more part of the program that we might be able to deal with. Let's say some of the shows that are involved in cooking, or making meals. That's the same thing that would be quite good for women viewers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9115	Thank you very much. We have another replica, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Kosor here I must admit you've made a little bit of an argument now with this last reply to the replica, what I wanted to point out, so let me mention it, maybe we should look at it together. So, women in politics I am of the opinion that our colleagues sitting in this Parliament on either side, it doesn't matter, they're not decorations here but here and today they prove they know, they can and will often and better than us men. In addition, you were the first prime minister of the independent Republic of Croatia, but I am also proud of Croatia because the first Prime Minister in Europe is women, coming right from Croatia, and this is Mrs. Savka Dabčević-Kučar. I think we're progressive on that side, or at least we're trying to be. And today we're also discussing some stereotypes that we want to avoid. Football and violence against women I wouldn't put it under the same carpet. I'm afraid the violence against women and football that often binds itself to the use of alcohol. Since alcohol is often consumed when watching football games, it is a cause rather than a football in itself. Besides, if we're breaking stereotypes, here's what you've noticed, there are women who love football, who follow football, but there are also men who like to cook, so maybe this part of the program would be interesting to them too, maybe even as fellow Sobol said sex and the city or something like that. So there are no rules and we need to avoid these stereotypes anyway. That's where I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9117	Thank you. I'll take the right to quote one slogan, he says, "When a few women in politics change women, and when more women in politics, politics changes." I think it's all our responsibility to pursue it. This is what you'd end up with. A break of up to 15.00 hours and next for discussion, the first one for discussion at 15.00 hours is representative Branko Vuksic. Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues continue. For individual discussion, MP Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9119	Honorable Vice President, esteemed attorney and associate, ladies and gentlemen. There are few of us, no more of these TV cameras, and he immediately lost interest in this topic. First of all, a little bit about the stereotypes I heard about here today, which is unfortunately more divided into men, men and women I've heard from women than men. That's probably because most women have been discussing this issue. And here in the Parliament today, there was a great absurdity. Although most debated gender equality, one colleague was able to steal all media attention through his performance. Whether it was done on purpose or not, it remains on his soul. It's all about a very important segment, and it's so long as only gender equality will be talked about mostly by women, and men will be a decoration to this topic, join the order for and that somehow we talk about it in a man's way. So these absurdities will be repeated as well as the reports of the other lawyers, and the prosecutor's report on gender equality will be one day, a few minutes, two three excesses, and everything else will be repeated. It speaks enough of us as society, it says enough that gender equality is still missing. One stereotype that unfortunately also women repeat, and that is one banality division of men and women, football is male, and yet they like some women, they understand football, and men with beer bellies 4-5 beers sitting in front of TV watching and screaming. Lucky for me, during football games, I go to the theater, I watch other programs, my home situation is a little different. This stereotype, first of all, if you look at it, the ratings of football are not what you imagine, not all male women throw through windows, don't do it, especially younger men like they used to do, and fortunately these younger ones, the younger generation of men is much more tolerated towards women, and much more understands the seriousness of the problem we're talking about today. One of the most important problems is stereotypes. Stereotypes strongly supported by one of the most important institutions in this country, which is public television, Croatian Radio Television. What my colleagues used to say about how Bruno Kovacevic would make women happy at a time when men were screaming in front of televisions is actually a tragedy. Someone said he should answer? No, he should answer, after such a step by the head of the Croatian Radio Television, I think it's natural for someone to resign. So I am from this place asking for the resignation of a man who in this way, leading one of the most important institutions in Croatia, looks at the problem between women and men, and divides men and women into such amazing divisions. Although our mouths are full of equality in practice is equality in all segments of society, inequality in all segments of society is growing. For what? One reason no one has spoken today, but I think it's most important. He may say too much, but it's neoliberal capitalism. Neoliberal capitalism is becoming more hypocritical. Although, at the time of the boom of neoliberal capitalism, the representatives of neoliberal capitalism advocated the increasing rights of citizens, discrimination is increasing. After each resolution, each conclusion, the recommendations, the decision on equality of the difference in growth. It's the same with gender equality. But this time it should be emphasized that inequality in all segments, and even in this one when we discuss between women and men, because women are in most, always caused by minorities. 1% of the population of the globe terrorizes 99% of the rest, which is amazing what we're allowing ourselves, and that's probably a topic for another opportunity. And that's the beginning of all evils, terror 1%, over 99%. Because of all this, women are harder to hire, we've heard, I'm just repeating what their colleagues previously detected, which isn't unknown to all of us. Women, although more educated for the same jobs, are 10 percent less paid in some countries. Women are exposed to mobbing at work, in families they are exposed to violence. A woman is a little in charge, in companies and women is less in politics. And that women don't realize that it's courting women. In any case, politics is much more honorable than men, much less defective, much less purer among women. What I mentioned earlier is a medium. Violents can be pillars of society in Croatia in our society because society does not react. This problem is mainly about weak civil society associations dealing with politics and not about society as a whole, and when the policy on everything is decided then society does not have or is too weak. To violence, in mobing towards women, and to men alike, the institutions of the state do not react in the right way still macho men are those men who are rude to women. We remember recently the Zagreb Mayor's move that he categorized men in the same way, which was also an invitation to unfair relations mildly spoken to women. Society is still not subtle enough towards gender imbalances and the greatest guilt lies with this very House over which I repeat it is often just God. So long as we here in the Parliament won't be able to make a decision that the government will abide by, and then it will be necessary to follow, and all the ministries will be empty stories for so long. Let's do it after this Attorney General's Report one turn, and we'll make a contribution to gender equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9120	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First responds representative Zeljko Sabo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9121	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, it seems to me that in your statement, you said there is no equality. Maybe from context, but I'd say he does. For example, I have a case where a party came to me, a man whom a woman often beats and he has all the legal equal rights as a man beats a woman. But when he uses those rights, when the police come and when he has to make an application, then he's laughing at how he allows himself to do it. It's the first case. Equality exists, all legal rights are respected. I have another case as an example where there is also equality in the legal procedure where men who because of failed marriage always have children belong to their wife, mother. But there are many cases in Croatia where these mothers, for some different reasons, are not able to see their children for several years and even seven, eight years. But equality exists. It's all within the legal frameworks of both men and women and in some other way, it's just a question of how these laws are implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9122	Thank you. The reply to the replica, please welcome Representative Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9123	Here's actually you've confirmed everything I said there is no equality. I'm just saying it's declared equal, in practice it's not. You have just testified that institutions do not do their jobs, although politicians always swear when asked, swear some institutions of the state do their jobs, especially those who violate the laws of the Republic of Croatia, they know that these institutions do not work, and we have contributed to that by our conduct and our impotence here in the Parliament that these institutions are still not doing their job. And I fully agree with the conclusion here that we must oblige the government to deal differently with these problems. And I don't agree before with a colleague who said the government already had that in mind. All governments have that in mind, all governments don't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9124	Thank you. We have another replica, representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9125	Thank you. So here's a fellow MP who also reiterated a thesis on how women are less paid and the thesis has been going on for some time now, and based on certain data that are being placed on sectors that are found to be less paid in certain sectors. So the reports appear for the health sector. However, in which way I do not know if anyone knows examples in the public sector, for example, where the different salaries of women or men are for the same jobs. I don't know that practice in Croatian society ever existed. And here come the statistics on the lower wage of women. I will now refer to the health care sector that stems from the number of employees and their net wages of one sex, the other sex and is established and women are said to be less paid in the health sector by 10% or 15%. In fact, this occurs as a difference in the mass of wages divided by the number of employees because they do different jobs. But I don't think in Croatia, I don't know about cases where women are less paid for the same jobs. I don't think that's the kind of discrimination I've ever met with. There may be real ones, but at least the public sector doesn't know. Practice in some countries and a lot of democratically real decades ago has been but not in Croatia in these areas. And the second thing you mentioned was the terror of liberal neo-capitalism. It's a pretty interesting finding and it's not, I like it pretty much and it's something that's present. Because when 300 production jobs are easily shut down in a textile company where women are mostly employed, that is indeed one social problem. It is something that really affects their personal and working and living and social rights and threatens the existence of their families. For example, it happens to us, shuts down, lets actually shut down a company called... The company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that's something where we should actually try to stop things like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9126	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, here you go, Representative Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9127	Well, I'm the only one I can handle with two, three examples, but I don't think that means anything to our neighbors, but I can use statistics. If statistics lie, so do I. It's been said here for years, for decades, that women are less paid. So, I'm going to be your colleague, although it's not my duty, but we're going to, we're going to have that data, so I'm going to exactly list the data in which the branches, where women's jobs are less paid. It is absolutely certain that in the public services that these cases are much less, that there are many fewer cases that women are more educated and more able to be subordinated to men who have less professional equipment and who are less capable. That male chauvinism exists. You can deny it or not deny it. And as for neoliberal capitalism, if the factories were shut down, in fact, the textile industry was being destroyed in Croatia, in which the largest number of women are employed by the fact that this was planned to do so in order to destroy a lot of things in Croatia in order to depend on imports, to be more independent and to have as little production as possible. Because it is known that import lobbys are the most profitable and that the highest percentages below the table are obtained precisely for import goods in the textile industry and many other industries were first killed by women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9128	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the debate. Advocacy Đurjica Sumrak, here you are, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a good one from a colleague and we all noticed it's past the time of direct transmission from television, and no one's interested in it anymore. Perhaps that is a good thing, but they are the ones who really want to talk about the subject, and they do not want to use the passwords. Before I begin, I would like to say one more thing about another woman, which is today the protector of our city of Zagreb. It's the Mother of God from the Stone Gate. Today it's from 8 to 10, and traditionally I almost said pilgrimage, so the procession is traditional. Why did I mention that? Because I mentioned my mother, and my mother is something that we all really care about. It's a woman. The mother is ours, and we now have parents, and even those who don't have parents when something happens say, about my mother, so we're still calling for Mother's help. Whether it's the Mother of God or our real mother we think of, who gave birth to us and told our wife. Unfortunately, that same mother was also someone's child, someone's sister, someone's wife if we talk about our own then it's from our parents but they've also been humiliating for so long, they've allowed themselves to instead of loving her, to raise their hands on her, not only to raise their spouses, but also to raise their mothers' children's hands, raise their children and hands to their parents, and that's what we should talk about in this Croatian Assembly. And they're not passwords, they're facts. And here in reality is this part that is related to gender equality when it comes to man and woman, as well as of course can be men and women in a subordinate position. What we more women of course advocate, which is for us women, because we think that over the course of a few hundred years I have to say that women no longer had their right to have at the beginning of life on earth, I would simply not say that these are stereotypes that a woman is more tender, that a woman is more devoted to home and that I agree with it, I think it's okay. And every woman who keeps to her home, to her family, to her children, but when we put her in the context of today's time in the context of this crisis which, in the morning, is rising, cooking coffee, preparing her child either in kindergarten or in school, checking if everything's okay in the closet, they've all met their morning needs and then she goes to some job. Usually going public transport in the morning at 6 or depending on how the working hours are at 5:30, your break that same woman uses in half an hour to go to the beach or market to buy something she needs to cook at home and then comes back and goes back to the same jobs, nothing neglects, does her work hours. And that's why we can proudly say that women are great managers. Women really don't have time to deal with crises because it's a crisis for us women if we're going to be so around us all the time. Around us in a house at work, in kindergarten, in traffic, we're constantly in crisis, but we don't deal with it, we deal with it. And that in such a good woman's way, a skillful woman's way, we don't deal with the trivialities that some around us and these trivialities actually use to humiliate women. In one part of my discussion I would also like to talk about us women who are in politics today, and we haven't all been in politics some of us have been in our jobs for a very long time, we have shown what we know in our professional work, we prove ourselves now and in political work. But today's topic is a little bit initiated by her to really talk straight about what she normally thinks. Let's say in an analysis of some of the media shows, women are more or less called politicians to say that at home, which is their best recipe, which make-up, when on a diet, which is the best color in them and so, and men of course don't talk about such topics, they talk about finance, they talk about important topics that are important to our country. But when he wants to make a nice man, then he asks the question of how he's going to cook something or what he's doing from housework, so the less he knows, the more media likable he gets, absolutely everyone, I have to tell us women and men. Because if a man cooks at home and helps his wife if he says that he really shares household chores, which is really a normal thing nowadays, I have a son and I want him to be that way and he is, so we have to say that women are surprised you know. The mothers who have a son wouldn't want a daughter-in-law who doesn't work at all, and the son-in-law cooks, cooks and washes and, of course, the mothers who have daughters of course want a son-in-law who does all that. So it's been the same story for centuries instead of men and women. What I was still trying to say is that what we women are looking for is respect, but also men ask for respect. The rights that we seek and which we as women want are the same as the rights that men want to have. As many gender rights as we're going to take, we're going to have. Of course, respect is returned with respect, and disrespect will bring back in the worst possible way. Because a woman is really different, of course both physiologically and by physiology, but I also have to say by the characteristics within herself, in a different way she's experiencing things around her. And what's a little surprising when we're already politicians, but in general, we women know very well how to make mistakes. Maybe we don't even need men, we're ideal here, and that's sad. The D.A. must know a lot of cases when women have made mistakes with each other so that we don't need our dear colleagues for that, but it will never be eradicated. What's good, it's good to talk about it, it's good and great to have legislation, it's great to have this many complaints, Madam Attorney General. It just means that we've all regained consciousness, it just means that young girls have regained consciousness, young women and old women know that when someone pushes you, slaps you that it's not so random because he's been in a bad mood today, or he's had a terrible day at work, and yet you've been doing all day dealing with children, etc., but it's just a violation of not only human rights but also all those legal regulations that are. So it's good that it exists, so it's good to have more complaints next year because it means that it's come to the reality of that area, that we've all come to our senses together in the field of human rights protection, but here's the lawyer. What I'd like to say more is the use of natively sensitive language. Today, I listened to a discussion in the last session of my colleagues, and we insisted heavily on it. It means that when we talk about ourselves and our interests to talk about it in a woman's generation, it doesn't say on our tiles that Djurdice Sumrak is an adviser to something but a counselor, that she's a chief of staff, that she's a representative, etc. And that's very important for us to raise awareness of our distinguished fellow men and our husbands, of course, because there are doctors, because they are vets or veterinarians, because there are agronomics, because there are psychologists and all the other professions, professors, etc. And there's something else I wanted to say, and I don't have any more time, it's really a woman in the rural area, that's this part that I really support with the defense attorney. This network that is being created and this project is going to be very supportive because I think it's still in those parts of women not only economically but in every other way, because we're not talking about this generation that went to school right now, means education, but we're talking about women from 50 to more years who didn't have that possibility of education, and they need special care and they need to be regained. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9130	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit. Representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9131	A colleague of the twilight said one thing I wouldn't analyze, we don't need men to screw us because that's what we do to ourselves, in that context. And just one question, so you don't need to get us men's wives to screw you up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9132	Okay, thank you. Here's the answer to the replica. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9133	I'll answer you like this in... That's because it wouldn't be appropriate now, but of course we don't need you to defile us, I said that we're all looking together for respect, respect for a man and a woman for a man, and that's just what every segment of society is about, and that's for women entrepreneurs. [[You don't understand.]] I didn't hear any female entrepreneurs say I was all alone, I'm all alone but she said it was me, but behind me is my husband. If it wasn't for him and the support of the whole family, that's what a woman always says, I wouldn't have made it. Today women entrepreneurs employ over 200,000 people. They've now reported to the competitions, they've taken loans from me, I think, 2100 women. They don't go into big projects, women entrepreneurs go into smaller projects, but they're safer projects, they're more employed, and the people who work with them are safer at their jobs, they think differently about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9134	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Representative Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with his associates. So they say that behind every successful woman is her mother or grandmother who helps her, and behind every successful man is the woman who pushes him. Since a colleague said women can't carry 30 kilos, I think they can carry 30 kilos without a problem, there's no problem at all, I have something that's common sense, and that common sense tells me that men and women are partners, that this partnership is one that should be respected, and if it's not respected there's the government, so there's a law that needs to make these people respect each other. The largest groups that affect most the formation and thinking of us all since we were little are parents, then teachers, teachers, and eventually employers. Here I'll tell you something that happened a few years ago. The judge, my friend, therefore a highly educated lady, came to her house for coffee, found a plate and crumbs on the table. And she told her daughter Sandra why you didn't clean it up, she says so I won't clean it up, brother ate it. She says, but you're a girl, you need to clean it up. Look out, and before you know it, this judge has been suing me that her colleagues are asking her to cook their coffee and wash their cups because she's a woman. So that education comes from home. First parents, we are you, mothers are the main or the main ones who raise children, so we need those children right from the start to put them in the head that they are equal, that they are children, which must be both. When it comes to school teachers also need to raise children that they are equal, that they can play with one toy and the other, as far as sports are concerned, they can play any sport they want both. Also with professors, and if teachers and teachers don't do it, of course there is the Ministry of Education that will force them or force them to do their job. And then we have an employer, and of course, if that little girl who's been yelling at her home that she's a little girl, that she has to do it, if she can't play a certain sport at school because she's a little girl, of course when she goes to work, when her employer says you're a woman, you have to do it, of course, she'll do it, but she'll complain that it's not fair. So let's finally let the women know and think about what we can do and do and work on it, not expect how Mrs. twilight said it was given in our hands. You just can't do it that way. The government said it tasked the competent authorities to take measures to remove irregularities from their portfolios within their part of the circle. So respect gender equality, and if you're not going to do anything to anyone. I remember in the 5th Parliament meeting we talked about this, nothing much changed, at the 6th probably the same thing, in the 7th same thing again. So as much as we have to repeat the same thing to finally change something. If we know what the problem is, I guess we know the answer. If we say that Parliament is a legislative body, then why isn't the Parliament acting that way. So, we're gonna vote something, we're gonna make a deal, and we're gonna make sure it's done, and we're not gonna say 20 years in a row that women are unequal as if the Martians are deciding who's going to do what, who's equal, who's not. It's as if we don't decide for ourselves and as if we ourselves can't regulate our laws and worse, we can't enforce our own laws. And that's why I got her on behalf of HSP Dr. Ante Starcevic suggested the conclusion, so since the defence counsel's recommendations are repeated in the most part year after year, I propose that the Croatian Parliament ask the Government of Croatia to submit a report on the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations instead of delivering an opinion on the proposed report in which it most frequently pollemises with analyses and opinions delivered by the Ombudsman. In this way, the system of protection of human rights would be significantly improved and would help to combat discrimination at all levels. In addition, the position of the Ombudsman as an independent body for the protection of human rights would be strengthened, which is mandatory to submit its report only to the Croatian Parliament as the representative body of all Croatian citizens. And he's the only one responsible for his work. And if we don't do something like this, all our lawyers will be just like they were just shoulder to cry on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9136	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first one's a representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here is my colleague Tomasic, and I agree with you, and I will, of course, support this same conclusion as you have given, but I think there is still a lot of work to be done on education, and that is what the attorney is doing, but all of us together and our Committee on Gender Equality, as well as in local self-government units in cities and in all our businesses where there are, of course, certain persons who are currently in charge of monitoring this area of gender equality. The fact is that despite all this good legislation, and we have really good legislation, one of the best in Europe has to be said, 63% of citizens don't know or think sex-based discrimination is not legally punishable, and only 12% know that there is this law. And I'm glad you mentioned your colleague to the judge. It's not the only example, of course there are more, but it's a good example to educate people who work in the judiciary, in the police, in different forms of social care so that they can behave in reality. Because today a verdict is made by someone who is not sensitized not only for this Law on Gender Equality but for the Law on Discrimination and for all others. But he's not even sensitized by himself. The law will not sensitize anyone, absolutely no one but ourselves. It is also very difficult when a woman or someone comes before a judge and complains about domestic violence or, say, mobbing at work will be very difficult to get a verdict if a judge or a judge who is not sensible sits in front of him, who simply doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9138	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative of Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9139	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members, if all these laws were to be done by themselves, then this country would be beautiful, it would be great to live here, and since these laws aren't being implemented by themselves, then the government should make sure that these laws are implemented. Is education being conducted? So from daycare to day care, is she having a good time, is she trying to do it? Do these sanctions also apply to those who do not? The D.A., I repeat, she comes here once a year and she's about people's shoulder to cry about because she doesn't have so much power and so many ways to force these people to enforce the law. The state has it, the government has it, and the government needs to do what it has to do. They say the funniest thing about safe houses is for me. We have a wife who gets beat up by her husband, then she takes the kids and comes to a safe house where there's five, six, ten more of those families, and the husband is standing alone in the house. So why don't you take that, that person, get him out of that house so he can be in jail, and let him go to some kind of anger retreat or I don't know what, but let that family live the way she lived until now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9140	Thank you. Another replica, MP Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9141	It's already a men's attack, I hope the D.A.'s got a record. Earlier, Mrs. Sumrak said that men's employers mostly boast that they did everything themselves, and Mrs. Tomasic said that men only succeed thanks to women. Well, I think it's also some stereotypes and prejudice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9142	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9143	Thank you very much. So here's how many of you men, but think straight, come home to me, I'm tired and sit tight, your house is clean, you're all set, you're washed. When I get home, I only have to clean, wash, iron and do all that. So I'm not even with you, and so there's a woman behind you because you don't have to do everything that we women do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9144	Thank you. We still have... Are you done? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Yes, thank you. Here's another replica, Attorney Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, actually, in that part of it, I'd like to express my opinion where you were primarily talking about raising our children by apostrophe of mothers like those who are most responsible for how tomorrow will work so I say daughter, or son. I can't accept it that way, I think that the responsibility for raising children in the family and that's what we have to insist on and where we have to build up some of our future relationships must be borne by both father and mother in one family where they are, therefore, one and the other. So, to put the situation right now and today in good shape on the back of my mother, I think that it is definitely wrong and that it only actually further strengthens certain stereotypes that exist in our society. And secondly, what seems to me is that perhaps today and not all of us have stressed enough, although there have been several discussions concerning the education system. It is true, therefore, that the child gets some basic foundation within a family where he lives, but I think that the state and our society all these years missed that at a time when a child enters a certain institution, such as kindergarten, as is then a primary, high school, that we have missed out on these children through the programs that we teach them, teach whatever you want, raise in spirit values that apply in Croatia, and one of those highest values is gender equality. So, how and how to treat your girlfriend or your boyfriend tomorrow, and then later your wife or daughter, etc., I don't think that in that part of the country I can wash myself in any way but therefore support all those who will hope to start from this year to next with these additional programmes that will include additional education precisely for the equal position of boys and girls, women and men in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9146	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, please welcome colleague Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9147	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members, I agree, the basic foundations get all the kids at home and when we do it with addicts, we also tell parents that the basic foundations are from home, but you have to admit that a lot more mothers spend time with children. And so more, much more so for us women, we care about educating those children about gender equality because men or fathers certainly won't or won't. So let's take over, take that responsibility that we need to take in the education of these children. Because after we do, it's really us who raise these sons and daughters, who end up acting the way they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9148	Thank you. We continue the debate, MP Melita Mulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9149	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed attorneys with their associates. Although I believe that only the Ombudsman will respond to some allegations, I would still like to begin my debate with something that my colleague Djurovic said, or expressed a clear doubt about the inequality, so in the truth, there is an inequality in the salary of women and men, especially in the public sector. When it comes to the public sector, i.e. the public service as such, there is certainly less discrimination, because the state in a certain way regulates certain things, but we must not ignore other things, such as concrete medical treatment. When you have a phenomenon of feminisation of a particular profession, so how you have an increased number of women, so you have an interest in self-interest, and that's how you actually lower the wages in that sector. Then you have the structure alone, so the number of nurses and medical technicians. Then, if you did an analysis of the number of department heads and chiefs, hospital directors, then you'll also see that men are the ones who are in the lead positions, so they have a higher salary. Third thing, tax relief. Whether they're on the mother or they're on the father. And the fourth thing about women is you always have to take maternity care of children. So women get out of their jobs much more often, resulting in lower wages, and one day lower pensions. And the pay gap in Croatia is 11%, and in pensions between women and men 23% and here we are something better than the European average, but these are the facts and it is neither a stabilising nor a falsification of statistics. And when it comes to statistics, I'll look back on just one part of this report. And at a finding made by a colleague, I think it was a colleague of the twilight, which is that the law can't sensitize anyone. I personally think that it can be done specifically when it comes to the area of domestic violence, that is, domestic violence. If you just look at these numbers, so in 2011, 11 women were killed, 58 victims of the murder in the family were women. In 82% of the victims of the crime of domestic violence are women. So, we're mostly talking about women here. We should talk about gender-related violence, or violence against women, although both children are in a smaller percentage and men, but the figures are inexorable. So the victims of domestic violence are women, it's gender-controlled violence, it's violence against women. It's not just a woman's problem, it's not even a man's problem, it's a first-class, parexelance political problem, it's the social problem of this society that we all have to look back on because if any bedroom is a more insecure place than the street then it's really a first-class political duo. I often use one metaphor in these discussions and paraphrase one Croatian columnist, and this is the following: "If you give data to the civil sector and some other data from 305 women has been killed in the last 10 years.", imagine if 305 car mechanics were killed, or 305 butchers, or so yes, we would be, or members of some national minority. So we would certainly be on the verge of war with one of the states. We would have to meet the criteria for entering an international association, we would be on the cover of all the world's media, this is actually still part of the private thing. So, even though society sanctions certain things, even though we bring some legal frameworks, it turns out that it's still a private matter of an individual, because actually nobody gets very upset about it. If we were to change certain articles and laws of, the law on protection against domestic violence, I don't think that would happen. Why, for example, in the defense attorney's report itself, you'll see that the police who are really the most sensitized in this whole victim-care process, that certain recommendations, let's say, take psychosocial treatment with a bully or that a bully gets out of the house. Only in 50% of the cases without the assessment of these courts, therefore, the court is not in 50% of the cases and determines the measure. Or, therefore, the victim is at some point asking for consent. We legally do what we have to do, I use this debate to highlight it and call on some models that apply to some that are more advanced than we are, which I like to look up to, like the Republic of Austria, which have a law since 1997 that has been automatically, as counterpart Tomasic said, removed from the family for 15 days. Whether there is anywhere to be, of course, about the unemployed, the person who is so dark and is a bully, then there are centres for social care, so their Ministry of Social Policy, in that case, reacts. Anyway, he can go to the homeless home, but home has to be a safe place. It is the victim who must remain in his home, and only if she estimates herself, or how much the intervention center estimates that her safety is not sufficiently guaranteed there, does she go to an autonomous women’s shelter or to a different institution of social care. So what I think we have to do in the next period is really legally empower it, so legal sanction it, and only then go all the other measures such as care, economic empowerment, and of course we need support from local self-government units, but we have to start from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9150	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Representative Drazen Djurovic first reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9151	Oh, thank you. I didn't really understand that you were talking about 305 murdered women in 10 years, well, now I don't know what the total number of people killed is, I think, because probably the other part is men, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9152	Family violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9153	Family violence, and I didn't. I'm sorry. I didn't understand. Anyway, I was saying, I mean, family violence, I think one thing that we didn't normally refer to, and I'm sure there's plenty of room to actually work out a lot more repressive towards domestic violence. Very often this violence goes undetected, because a large number of these women are actually in an existential situation that very often depends on their husband and there is no way out and then they'd rather keep quiet than actually appear to anyone. This is one problem, in fact, that existential dependence on a husband who often works, and a woman at home has no income from others. Also, this proposal seems actually quite good to me, and it should actually be done and not only to distance that bully, but also to quickly express measures to ban access at some time after these events. And the only thing that remains is some kind of fake and not exactly accurate application, which should also be sanctioned in some way. I also think that there should actually be a little stronger solutions and further sensitise especially some rural communities that are not too sensitive to such events anyway. But I'm going back to the relationship between men and women as far as pay is concerned. I'm almost sure in general most of these statistical indicators that show up in us are actually a game of statistics, and they're not a realistic indicator of any difference that exists between men and women in wages. And they show up in sectors and because they show up in sectors and different salaries of women and men, they get pay gaps and they prove to be some kind of difference in real wages, but it's only depending on jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9154	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica of MP Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9155	Thank you. When you spoke to a colleague about the economic addiction of women and in fact the percentage of reported cases of domestic violence if you look at statistics somewhere only about 5% of the reported cases of domestic violence, and when you look at and rapes, these are data of civil society. And when it comes to rapes, even the M.O.P. will tell you that at least five people come to one, so there really is this one problem where it's still considered a private sphere and that it's a shame to say and, of course, plus all of this objectively in terms of unemployment and everything else. And as far as I'm concerned, I don't have that kind of time and it should actually be the subject of some other discussion when it comes to this pay gap. I really think that the basic problem lies in the reconciliation of this family and professional life and that we still hold what we would say in Dalmatia three or four cantunes of the house or woman. And when it comes to empowering the law that we agreed on, it is therefore necessary to stress, and that time should be limited. Therefore, when the bully was moving away from the house, the joint housing facility could be extended for a certain period of time, and under certain circumstances, through the Municipal Court. But then I'm sure for 15 days that a bully has no access to a joint home. So I think we're getting an educational measure anyway, and that's where the relapse has proved to be significantly smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9156	Thank you. We have another replica, Mrs. Gurjica Sumrak's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll replicate to my colleague when she says the law can't be sensitized, that's what you said I said. Namely, what was I going to say? We have a legislative colleague, absolutely top-notch in line with the European Union. The D.A.'s here to confirm it. We've brought this fourth declaration, right, which is also harmonised. But what you need colleagues of course laws, but what you need to talk about them. What you need to point to a problem, which is called sensitization on the subject or sensitizing the problem. We don't have a law if not only does 63% of people don't know that something from that law is punishable, and that's why there's a Ms. Attorney-General with her associates, and that's why there's Mrs. Radin with her associates, so there's a Croatian Parliament, and that's why we exist here. That's why there are thousands of other women on the ground, who are not so famous and very, very good at fighting to point out all the problems experienced by both women in the family and women at work, but also point to all the problems of discrimination. So this isn't just about women. It's called sensitization. He's got a letter on his paper that's nothing. If you'll just let me have one more. It's about the health of a woman who's very important. So if it hadn't been for sensitization, which means that there was no problem of uterus cancer or breast cancer, thousands of lives in women wouldn't have been saved regardless of what is of course a doctor's, we have to say one of the most favourable medical services. Any woman could have left. However, it was coming to the field, it was coming to rural areas, women were animated. It's called sensitization and it's called help.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9158	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative Melita Mulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9159	Oh, my colleagues, dummies, I'm also in favour of sensitization. I mean, it's an alphabet, it's a beginning. But I can't say that we have effective legislation if we have over 20,000 reported cases of domestic violence, and for a little while I said that only 5% of it is reported. It is not a matter, then it is not an effective legislation, nor do we have institutions that apply it adequately if the courts do not respect half of what the police have recommended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9160	We're moving on with the debate. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there aren't any of those Slavic women, the woman from Slavonic village. However, I would say something about rural women that they are actually guardians of these... And I found a quote that says, "If women in the country had equal access to the country and finances as men, they could increase food production by 100 to 150 million to reduce the number of hungry." So much for the ability of women, so much for the ability of a woman in the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this isn't my theme, but this morning I was associated when I saw these Slavonic women from the village to say this. We've seen all kinds of data from this report, and I don't want to repeat myself, there's a lot of things that's been said. But I'll look back on only one segment, and that's because I heard from your opening statement, Madam Attorney, that when you look at the work relationship you've had, 94% of the sexual harassment of women and that 94% of the sex discrimination and 60% of the women in the employment relationship were related to sexual harassment, and only 8.4% of the contracts are undetermined, although we know that this is a major problem. So let's see what's the consequence. However, I often say in all things that you should always look at the cause, not the consequence. That's why today I'm only going to talk about showing a woman in the media, or showing a woman in commercials. In fact, the law regulates or regulates the work of the media to remove sexism, to remove sexual stereotypes, to remove humiliating displays of women and men. Unfortunately, however, the female body is a very common object, the object of attracting attention. Let's just look at the posters. The other day I drove towards Zagreb and literally bombed the crying of young girls in bathing suits and worse. So, it's a shame, it's a shame for a woman and, consequently, it's safe for society as a whole. But the problem is, as the lawyer here states, there is no wider social condemnation of such sexism. And here I would talk about prevention, again this is the consequence of our cause. You need to learn from the beginning, you need to study in schools. When you look at and analyze the articles that have been made that this office has been following for years, it is also devastating. But so when we wonder what a woman's personality is, unfortunately a female personality as a human being is actually a simple object, predetermined stereotype values, unfortunately a sexual object. Look at the commercials, I'm all about sex. It's an insult I think of every woman and mother and father and all the company. The facility is also very common for home affairs. Here a little while ago my colleague said when you were talking when you were showing bad relationships or discrimination my colleague said I'm atypical man, I'm washing, ironing, cooking, I love kids like my wife. And that's what I do because my wife doesn't have time for that. You're not an atypical man, you're a conscious man. That's right. Unfortunately, women are also shown as a slave hanger very often. They're media ideals. What's going on? That's what frustrations do to every young person. No wonder we have this many anorexia diseases, eating diseases, bulimia diseases, anorexia, etc. It all gives the media the way you show women, it's actually there's a cause, and the consequences are these that we have. Then we have sexism in advertising. Let's remember when it was a car club card, help on the road. Let's remember how the woman was shown. A woman who has no idea where Slunj is, where Sinj is, where he is, I don't know which other city he was, but that's why she knows how to iron cards well. It's a disaster, it's advertising sexism. Or was there a warm - up commercial in one part of the magazine, you know how? There's a young girl lying on the floor naked and it's a floor heating commercial, it's a terrible colleague and colleague. And about singing songs that we don't talk, and now we're witnessing songs, jokes that are wrapped in jokes, which are sexist outbursts, that's the media, that's what we watch every day. We're watching, watching our children grow up in it all. So, speaking of gender equality, I think we need to change society, that we need to change relationships, stereotypes. That's exactly what we can do through education. Here we have a colleague named Sobol earlier mentioned in a replica, and we have a medical education waiting for us. Through that health education, we have to think about it. Something else at the end that very often bothers me as a woman, which is when we sit somewhere for lunch or drinks when I go to pay for a colleague anyone, a man says don't insult me I'm a man. But I'm a well-aware woman, too. And you know why? Because my education gave it to me. There's a few of us, we're not on TV, so I'm gonna tell you, because my dad sat down with me and he said, "Don't ever let your friend, tomorrow guy, anyone, buy you twice a drink, not ever." So back to that, we're talking about the consequences we need to go to the cause then there won't be that judge who told her to tell her daughter to buy you crumbs, no, but there will be these conscious men like my colleague sitting with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9162	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9163	Dear colleagues Tatjana Šimac Bonačić, I hope to have lunch with you very soon. I will not resist your desire to pay. You said that a woman's body is like an object that's humiliating, that it's a humiliating illusion of sex. But I think there are commercials that are humiliating for women to pain, and that's when women put their heads in a shell all the time. All the commercials that advertise some shell washing is with women with their heads in a shell. I don't know how you don't mind. That's really humiliating. That's what humiliates women and that's what should be banned. I'm sure what you've mentioned is just as humiliating for women, but this is problem number one in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9164	Thank you. We have a response to Tatjana Šimac Bonačić's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9165	Well, my colleague, you surprise me. You surprised me that the kind of sexist commercials I've just said that it's not a big deal for you, and you're going to compare a woman's head to a shell. I mean, I don't have words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9166	Thank you. We had another replica of Djurdzica Sumrak's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I see that this debate has started in such a cheerful direction and that we have just started making fun of different ads and the different things that are happening around us. We, of course, when we talk about it in the house, seriously, are we colleagues, most seriously think about it I know, but what I wanted here is what you said well, in which way they tried to invite tourists to Croatia, and then the first thing that was was the naked body of a woman and then the prime minister, today's representative and vice president of Mrs. Kosor's Parliament, warned about it. And she rightly warned because she said how a woman's body can be actually used to call as a tourist offer in Croatia. And then something else that I'd like to add to your presentation, Madam MPs, is that, for me, the family is nevertheless, regardless of all the educations that are very important and education from kindergartens, primary schools, but for me, the family is the center and source of our education, and for me, the family is the one from which we carry those first knowledge of respect, the first knowledge of how important we are to each other, the first knowledge of how much we need to love each other. And then, of course, in our education, we get to know everyone else, so I have to say the legal legislation just the same, but we already have it in us, in my family, so I have to say the basics and in some way that make us the man that we are. It means how sensitive we are to anything that applies, so I'm not just going to say gender equality but also discrimination, but also everything else... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9168	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sumrak, I agree with you that the family is very important in raising and that we get the basics into the family, but not only the family but we also have to look at schools, or all the institutions where our children grow up, as well as the local community. I think we're all responsible, the most responsible are parents. Also, we cannot say that parents are conscious and that is why I feel that parents should be helped. It takes the help of those who misbehave their children to learn, and so do those who bring up well very often come to the wall so that they do not know how to go on. Therefore, I feel that parents really need help in all of this. It is good when a parent’s message is compatible with a social message, but if a parent’s message is not what it is today, it is not compatible with the message of the environment, or social message, and now there is a double bind, there is a problem in growing up. So I'm saying, we can't just let parents go and tell them they're the strongest link, they're the most responsible link, but they need help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9170	Thank you. We have another replica, representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9171	Thank you. Well, I just wanted to refer to your ad issues. Well, the commercials are really sexy, but we didn't make them up in Croatia, so everywhere they are, we just brought them more or less. Well, in the end, if you look at most of these sexist ads are imported and refers to products that are not produced in Croatia. So I think that in no way represents neither the Croatian wetland nor it is, most of it is actually a good part of these ads refer to foreign products, although there are some specific Croatian ones as well. For example, beer commercials have just come up with some that are offensive for women. First because they advertise beer that is just alcohol, I don't know why it's advertised, why it's allowed to advertise alcohol on television, that's the first, and the second that really some are vulgar, simply saying, not to count them. But it's also from the position of women. For products that refer to men there are in advertising men and which, of course young and handsome, which is so when young and handsome sell the product, is just the way it is. So any packaging must look nice and so does the product that advertises whether it's male or female, unfortunately it's simply a marketing strategy for those who are trying to sell us something. And as for coffee, here's what I'm calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9172	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9173	Where did I say the thing you just said thank you so much? So, I'm once again surprised and for you, you're saying that the asset justifies the goal, and that's exactly how the media is justified for what they're putting on, actually why they're showing the woman as an object in such a way. However, I'm surprised that you men are reacting to the very part of my discussion that I've been saying about sex, that part of it bothers you in commercials, and you're going to mention beer. I’m very upset with advertising and beer because I watch it affect child rearing. So, my colleague, I can agree with you because I don't accept that the asset justifies the goal and I can't accept it when you say, "I'm sorry the target means," so I can't agree when you say it, so it's not ours, we imported it. It's like your kid's looking for something, so he says everyone else is. Then it's the wrong way to raise us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9174	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9175	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Advocacy with co-workers, fellow MPs, respected and well-aware fellow MPs, as you are currently in the assembly, I think the vast majority of you are aware. In my debate on this report, I will refer to the research conducted by the Advocate's Office in 2011, which is about the representation of women and men in the management and management positions of business entities in the Republic of Croatia. Why do I want to talk about this particular subject? Because I am convinced that economic equality is a prerequisite for all other types of equality between men and women. So a woman who is economically dependent on her partner, he doesn't necessarily have to be husband, husband, she can't be and is not equal. Research conducted by the office on a sample of companies has shown that women are significantly sub-represented on the Croatian labour market at all levels, from regular jobs through management positions to participation in the boards of directors and supervisors. First of all, there are twice as many entrepreneurs in Croatia as there are entrepreneurs, but despite this infamous fact, women entrepreneurs and craftsmen employ over 200,000 workers and this is an impressive figure. Furthermore, women account for only 19% of management members with only 9% of women at the head of the administration. Also, in the structure of the Women's Supervisory Board, they account for only 20%, so each fifth is a member of the Supervisory Board, with 11% of them being chairman of the Supervisory Board. However, what is very interesting in this story is the fact that women are even more sub-represented in economic operators that are wholly or in the majority part owned by the state. In fact, in private-owned business entities, women occupy 36% of the total number of leading positions, i.e. 23% of top-level management positions, while only 27% of women's management positions and only 19% of top-level management positions, respectively. These data, in my opinion, are even more devastating if they are observed in the context of the fact that women in the Republic of Croatia make up most of the highly educated population or population. So Croatia can draw one such conclusion, schooling its wives but does not use their creative potential nearly as much as it could and as much as women deserve. Such luxury does not allow for more developed, or highly developed countries, but we can allow it or perhaps developed countries and are developed precisely because they use all the human potentials available and those male and female alike. However, there is hope for women. In fact, world management authorities believe that women are precisely who are more predetermined to the modern leaders of the future of the post-industrial era. Not only have they proved successful at leading functions in large companies, even in atypical areas such as construction, telecommunications, IT and more qualified in other traditionally male health and economic professions. In the future, women simply have a greater perspective as leaders because in governance the authoritative approach and respect for hierarchy, i.e. authority and subordination with which men are usually identified. Also because of some of their characteristics such as stronger emotional intelligence, concern and respect for co-workers because of self-disclosure, the need to be constantly in a competitive relationship between women is easier to engage in teamwork, and it is precisely teamwork that becomes the main model of making business decisions. Women are more responsible and committed to work. And if we remember the steel lady Margaret Thatcher very often spoke if you want a good speech, hire a man, and if you want a job well done, hire a woman. And finally, one very important and desirable feature of women who give them a certain advantage is that they are less prone to corruption. And that's proven, respected colleagues, that's proven data. A friend of mine, a colleague of mine once said that every public job and politics as a public job would be more honorable to have more women involved in it. Similarly, in his debate, counterpart Vuksic apostrophyd. Unfortunately, women will no longer be in the business world nor in politics as one public activity, or activity, so long as women have to set priorities. So, while they must choose between progress in business and family because it is unfortunately difficult, it is very difficult at the same time to be successful in the career in the business and to be successful in the family. And this very clearly points to the need for far more determined application of positive measures to bring professional and family obligations into line. Above all, it is understood that a more uniform distribution of responsibilities for raising children and other family responsibilities is carried out between men and women. I mean, it's very embarrassing to hear when a partner tells his partner to look at the baby, look at how you raised him. That's not good. Unfortunately, as far as this distribution and home affairs are concerned, and above all these family responsibilities, the data we also read from this report is not too encouraging. In 2011, only 0.47% of men used extra maternity leave up to the age of 6 months. 0.5% of men, which is less than in 2010 and only 0.4% of fathers. It's a better situation in the use of parental leave, so the one after six months. From 181 to 900 days, less than 5% of men and 3.8% of fathers were used. Obviously, therefore, the inconsistencies of family private and professional life are the primary source of inequality in the social situation of men and women, and that we should all, so that everyone, starting first of all, does a lot more to change these things, more radically change for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9176	Thank you. We've got one replica, counsellor Gyurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9177	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague. I'd just like to look back at your education exposure. Of course I agree with you that women have realized that education is in reality power. And knowledge is power. And that's absolutely it and that's why we have 51% of women who have completed their doctorate and we have over 50 percent of women who have completed their master's degree. But they're better than our male colleagues, and that's good. However, I also agree with the fact that a woman needs to be strengthened and encouraged. That means it's economical to stand alone, but here we are with maternity benefits then I have to mention that this is very important that the first six months that a woman has a full salary. So, the first six months of maternity leave she didn't have 12 years ago, and that's back, and I think that's very good. Because a woman with high professional training who gave birth and went into maternity care could hardly be reconciled with the fact that she was going to give birth and that she would no longer have the salary she had. Yet now he has six months' salary, after which the salary seems to me 2150 kuna, but these funds are given to women who do not work and women who are in the country. So it's one very big thing that has helped women to decide to give birth and that women who work decide to give birth to what is very important to us in our country and we have to be grateful to the former government. Now you'll see what I'm saying to the former prime minister, and I have to say it, because it was simply on the initiative but it could only be on the initiative of a woman who understands. The one who doesn't understand it can't even initiate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9178	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9179	Comrade Sumrak, yes, of the 100 graduates, 60 graduates are women. And it's an extremely good piece of information and I repeat, it's a shame that this country still doesn't recognize this creative potential of women who could certainly contribute to maybe even the problems in the country are smaller, let's say. It is also good that you noticed that women have their full salary for the first six months of maternity leave, and only afterwards is it reduced. However, I must remind you, you were mostly negatively expressing yourself when you were talking about the coalition government just cut birth benefits, to now say it's good, that it's good that we expanded the base of those women who receive that fee. So we have just made a decision, that is, changes legally in this sense that both unemployed women and pupils receive compensation today. One much wider, one much wider group of women than it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9180	We continue, unfortunately there are no institutes, we continue the debate by representative Ivan Grubisic. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9181	I thank you for your word. I'd like to say a few notes, listening to the full-day debate on the prosecutor's report on gender equality. First of all, I think it is essential to take care of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which emphasises that all citizens, that means persons before the law are equal, that we do not divide in sex, by nationality, by political commitment, even by the world's horizon. That's why it doesn't seem like the good name of a lawyer for gender equality, but for the equality of a person before the law, because we're all equal before the law, so says the Constitution, and we should stick to it. The crisis of non-functioning of the rule of law conditioned the establishment of commissions for different endangered categories of people, I personally opted for a man most of all by implying both women and men, a man above all. And a woman is a man and a woman is a person. Other criteria need to be introduced today, ability, diligence, responsibility, expertise, and whether someone is male or female. The other thing I would like to stress is the right to vary, not just by gender, but by existential reality that we have discovered after a long delusion that every man is special, separate, unrepeated and original. But we also don't discover hot water when we say that Vita communis is a cross with maxes, that living together is the hardest cross, and even when it comes to marriage, it's hard. The Bible has given one message to husband and wife and to basic communities: “You carry one another as a sweet burden or as a bearer, ” our people have translated this“ Against the Devil to the Death, ” so we are very far from the Bible and from some old tried wisdom. Holy Paul would also stand confident on my side now that there would be a vote, says Paul no longer has male or female, no slave, no Greek or Roman, we are all one in Christ Jesus. Or we're all equal in rights, certainly all equal regardless of gender. We have to try to get the rule of law to work first, then we need different agencies and attorneys less. Croatia must function as a legal state and that these legal provisions that we are voting equally for Milanovic here, and for Bozanić, both for me and for you. Equally before the law, all equal regardless of sex, age, race and class. I respect, therefore, every human being, neither national nor religious nor political. The Bible says in one place in the Old Testament, which is a little difficult to understand but it says, "Because you love a weak man and you don't hate any of the ones you created." When I started publishing books titled "Man" above all titles, then they attacked me, and that di was God, if man was above all. Then I said that it was a Christian expression that God is of paramount importance to a man in Christendom. We have replaced that Christian thesis that God is important even in this congregation, that he is God above the congregation. There are people and voters in democracy over the Parliament. Here's so much notice, if we want to save the union of marriage, friendship, family, then there are four rules. First of all, we respect each other as human beings, respect each other. Second, to replace the culture of speech, the culture of honest and free conversation. Third, to confess to each husband and wife, both wife and husband equality and speciality. And the fourth thing that matters today is how to preserve the community. Today, the community is on a difficult historical test. The communities break down where they are organized and started with love, today, it's, today, that community gets on edge. Now how we manage it, by old methods we can't, they're patriarchal, they're authoritarian, they're monologues. We must create a new paradigm of relations, including a new paradigm of respect in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9182	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure, counsellor Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here, Mr. Grubishic, I have indeed listened with great care and pleasure to your presentation, and I expected you to talk this way, because I expected everything you would say about man and man, and about Adam and Eve, that he was simply a man. And really, I think this idea of your personality is just as right to me, now whether it can be changed or not. But 10 of God’s commandments to us who went to religious teaching and who listened to all that the church says, namely, what faith and the Gospel say, it seems to me that if we followed it, we would not have any problems. Maybe in one part of pre-parriarchal for this society but basically we wouldn't have a problem with respect for each other, we wouldn't have a problem with personality and we wouldn't have a problem with violence or anything, and here I think that then and some laws might be easier to implement, and some of us might not even need to, but it's some society that I don't know if there's ever going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9184	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9185	10 commands were made in a patriarchal society, a patriarchal society that was a long-term, millennium society. I will tell you that one survey of the 1990s in 12 countries then united Europe was a study of values in 12 European Union countries at the time. There was also a question of religious determinations and evaluations and respondents were asked what order of 10 of God’s commandments were for them, not this Bible. It's transformed now. In the first place, don't steal it, don't touch mine. The second place is not to desire the wife of her neighbor, neither shall she desire my wife. The third is not to say false testimony but to me. And the last three orders were the last, and these came first. So this is an indicator that society is changing and we social changes in the civil character cannot stop the brooms, and often we are the brooms here who think we will easily stop it. That doesn't stop. But it is a challenge how to try to reconcile it and how to continue to live despite it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9186	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. Representative Vanja Posavac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9187	I'd like to thank the esteemed vice president, the attorney general, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, somebody's got to be the last one in the debate, so today I am, so here's a little bit and I've adjusted my debate, and finally let me do it again. Gender equality means that women and men are equally present in all areas of public and private life, that they have equal status, equal opportunities for the achievement of all rights and equal benefit from the results achieved. Why do I read how nice that sounds, but in practice, it's still not like that. Let me get this straight. The area of social care, the area of employment and work and the benefits related to employment are the largest number of complaints coming from women. Sexual discrimination against a woman. The share of women in the total number of unemployed is greater than the share of men. I pay for women's harm. Women in management and management positions are weak. Violence in the family is the most hurt by women, and that's a fact. Each of these topics deserves a special discussion and some topics have been discussed today, perhaps not enough, but I am glad that the whole day is dedicated to this problem. I don't think time is wasted. I will look back briefly on something else that I have personally experienced from day to day. I'm still hearing a lot of cases, and that's the labour market. There is absolutely discrimination in the field of women's employment and in women's employment they have had discrimination from the very beginning. By applying for a tender for employment, women need to prepare mentally for a conversation, as the employer will at least ask them about the profession and the following questions will follow. First you get married, second you intend to get married, third you intend to have children, and then if you answer all that yes, then the woman says she intends to have children, a home, a family, etc. The next answer will come to you, even in writing. You know, because of the particularity of this job, we prefer to have a man in that workplace. This is what I experienced, and women still experience this day because the employer thinks the following way, and she has children, so the children will be sick, so she will keep going to sick. In addition, we have a situation to get married and that is the fact that all the later they decide to have a child or delay it because they want to keep the job. In particular, the problem is undetermined. Attorney General's efforts, your efforts here are visible. I welcome that. But until we change the mental circuit that is in our society of significant progress, I'm afraid there won't be. Segregation by activity. Very few women are in construction, mining, and even ridiculed if women go to the Faculty of Civil Engineering or Mining, they are surprised. I worked at crafts school so girls who applied for occupations were actually having a laugh, underestimation, etc. And we can also look in the paper that there are articles that some of these girls, today women are far more successful car mechanics than men. I've been thinking about kindergartens. I've been spinning all day. Well, I don't know about cases. Here in my hometown I know all the so-called. aunty, i.e. raiser. I don't know any male breeders. In fact, a picture was accepted in society, which are women's professions, education, kindergartens, nurses, etc. The woman will find it much harder to reach the executive post and the women I claim must invest much more and work much more to reach that place. Moves happen, but we're far from equal. I therefore welcome this Report, but ultimately I call on all of us, especially those who are parliamentary representatives, to contribute to our public acts that this equality is not only on paper but that the more that we spend in everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9188	Thank you. We're done with the reports. We could hear that 23% of our colleagues are in the constituencies. More than 90% of our fellow MPs participated in this debate. So we've been a male sex minority. However, my conclusion, I hope you will agree that what colleagues discussed was that these discussions were more supported by the power of argument than by the argument of force. So it goes in favor of that saying used by women activists for what I said in the break. Several women in politics change women, when many women in politics change politics. That goes for it. Mrs. Ljubičić, here's your final.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. I'd like to thank you for today's constructive debate, which lasted right up to half past five. We've had opportunities today to hear a series of topics that have been processed in this report. I am primarily grateful for the support provided by the Ombudsman institution as well as the commendation of the research carried out by the Advocate's Office for giving us one additional strength and wind in the back that we will continue to continue our activities more actively, measures aimed at eliminating the violation of the principle of gender equality and providing further anti-discrimination guarantees. I thank you for identifying the problem that will continue to be in the focus of our work, which primarily refers to the field of discrimination, work, employment, social care, pension rights and all rights acquired by these foundations. The sub-representation of women on the labour market, JAZU wages, sub-representation of women in political participation, all present family violence, violence against women, rights of sexual minorities, removal of gender stereotypes, prejudice, traditional distribution of gender roles. We've heard about double shifts, double shifts that women do, means work at home, work on official duty, aligning these mutual obligations, perpetuating gender stereotypes and prejudice through the media. I would also refer to the recent example of HTV editor-in-chief where the Ombudsman institution issued a statement, and I would also point to statistics related to the state of the HRT concerning a recent research carried out in their ranks and among the editors-in-chiefs of gender equality where out of 900 employees, editors, editors of 900 of them answered only 19% of the survey. Statistics are devastating. I always go from statistics because statistics are our measurement and guidance in which direction measures should be taken further and what is the situation in a particular area. Even 25% respond that gender equality education is not considered necessary, above 34% does not want to participate in gender equality education and over 48% does not know which mechanisms to promote gender equality exist in the Republic of Croatia. So these are our public TV HRT editors. Perpetuation of gender stereotypes and giving full attention to the integration of gender equality principles into an educational institution where I am glad that we all agreed that we need to take special measures in the first three places, which is education, education, education through all levels. There are a number of other life and real topics that we are facing, and they refer primarily to here today we have heard the question of the systematic rape of women in the Homeland War. I must say that the rape of women in the Homeland War represents a war crime and genocide, which is referred to by the UN Convention on the Prevention of all forms of discrimination on the basis of which the status of the Criminal Court in Rome has been designated by the Special Commissioner for War Violence Advisory. I must say that there is a problem in the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, but the Attorney's Office will support efforts for the necessary processing of the perpetrators of war crimes and, in that sense, by the complaints of the victims, here today I have received such an example from the political party, to request a parliamentary representative, to request a statement from the DORH because war crimes do not go out of date. I will also seek to be involved in the efforts and activities of civil society organisations which have been increasingly engaged in this topic lately. Soon, according to my knowledge in the fourth quarter of this year under the auspices of the President of the Republic, a gathering will be held, a public debate on the processing of such crimes against women who were victims of domestic war rape. The second question is the processing of prostitution, both female and male. I have to say that statistics here show that women are most often exposed to prostitution, that most often and victims of human trafficking, because of the increasingly difficult economic situation and the inability to hire. In the report work of the Attorney General's Office for the following year, you will be able to see the proposals sent to the Advocate General about the creation of a new proposal of the Law on Public Order and Peace, where we have asked for punishment as a user of consummation, the use of services of persons offering sexual services, but also the release from the violation of a person offering sexual services because this proved to be extremely effective in the Scandinavian countries. The latter is also the opinion of a civil society organisation that has been dealing with the issue of sexual violence, prostitution, human trafficking for the past 20 years. Here we could also hear questions about birth stereotypes in textbooks. I will also support the analyses conducted by the Advocate's Office in 2007 and 2010. It was an analysis of the textbooks in literature, an analysis of the textbooks in history. From the textbook of Croatian language of men's professions are far superior, more classy and there are 40 professions in the male class. Women’s professions are uniform and present in only four professions. It's a female miller, wife of ballerina, wife of a lawyer and wife of a harvester. History textbooks for elementary school of all categories of interest and roles in texts and in photographs in which women where women are superior is the category of wife of historical personalities. In 97% of cases, men are referred to as historical figures. I'm talking about statistics. One of the following questions that we will also deal with and which has been raised here is the unequal representation of shelters and counselling centres for victims of domestic violence in all units of local and regional self-government. We know that there are 19, it is up to us, and we will work to balance the existence of such shelters for victims of domestic violence, but of course this will not be possible without determining the parameters, criteria and the legislative framework that will determine how such shelters will be financed and worked. Furthermore, the issue of education and sensitisation of judges, judges, both in criminal, civil litigation, was also discussed about the education of state lawyers, lawyers and lawyers and lawyers related to discrimination, anti-discrimination guarantees. In that sense, I must say that last year I organised two events, one related to a regional conference where they were representatives of the judiciary, one round table also related to the rights of members of the sexual orientation. They were members of the judicial authority, members, where they themselves pointed out that they were hungry for additional education. They believe that there is no uniform case law on discrimination, it is about new laws, the Law on Equality, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination adopted in 2008. The case-law in this area has not been brought to life. They require exchange of experience, demand European knowledge, European court practices and we believe that in this respect, the judicial academy should be more involved in the education of its officials and officials in the field of justice. Today, issues of gender and gender equality have been troubled. I'm not going to say anything new, I'd just remind myself that walking down the streets in the procession often through history has been used by those groups whose rights have been denied. That's where we think of the soufflés, remember the African-Americans in America. Today, what is common today 100 years ago or 50 years ago was the cause of great opposition and anti-demonstration. I remind you that non-acceptance and misunderstanding lie in the essence of any prejudice, as well as homophobia that is discrimination, and discrimination is forbidden by our positive legislation. However, things are much easier to write on paper than they do and live in practice. Therefore, minorities, based on any basis, should not be denied human rights, should not be denied and discriminated in this way. I also have one comment here that was related to the visibility of the Ombudsman's Institute for Gender Equality in the Republic of Croatia and about a proportionality between visibility in the City of Zagreb in relation to complaints from citizens and citizens from the Zagreb area where the relationship is 46.5% compared to the other 20 counties where the percentage of complaints ranged from 6 to 0%. Of course there is discrimination in other counties and certainly more. It's a start up that I found two months before I got here. My mission and my vision of leading the Ombudsman institution is that it is an institution not the City of Zagreb and not an institution that will only care about women's rights, it is an institution that cares about gender equality, which will be visible at local level and that will use the resources of established county committees for gender equality both county and local. In that sense, in the last two months, trying to improve the situation, visibility, finally and statistics because I came to the lawyer's post quite late, I visited five counties, six cities, four safe houses, talked to the wards, visited welfare centres, saw a way of co-operation of shelters, centres, police. I was involved, and today we talked about women in the rural area, and I was involved in a regional project that is being implemented in seven countries of the region with the Centre for Gender Equality, which will deal with issues of education, awareness-raising and promotion of women in rural areas. In this regard, the process of education, workshops, local meetings has already started and 17 counties have been planned by the end of the 6th month. I think through these meetings, through these workshops, through the media presence, through civil society organisations, and in particular through talks with the leaders of local, regional, regional self-government bodies, that we will be able to be more visible and strengthen the authority of the prosecutor for gender equality, and that citizens and citizens in these environments, and we will go and in less areas is not the goal of visiting centres of the county will be able to complain with their examples of violations or stagnation of their actions before the authorities of the state administration. I would also refer to the proposal to amend the Law on protection against domestic violence that would require the automatic distance of the bullys from the house, not the accommodation victims to the shelter. I spent 10 years in the government of the Republic of Croatia in the human-legal sector, from 2001 to 2011, in the working group on the adoption of the first Law on Gender Equality, the first national policies on gender equality and the first Law on protection against domestic violence. In 2002 and 2003, when this law was passed, I must say that there was a lot of resistance in the Parliament itself on whether the perpetrator of domestic violence that is the owner of the property could be removed from his property by a protective measure. After problematizing and overcoming legal elaboration, we have come to a happy solution that is still possible. I know that this automatic distance of thugs from the family is based on the Austrian model that we have and at that time I would personally be pleased if this Croatian Parliament recognized the importance of the perpetrator being punished and so far away because the situation is taking place that women victims of domestic violence, and most often children change their environment, go to shelters, and then the next situation happens to them, which is why I, together with the child defender, addressed the High Court of Justice, where in the criminal proceedings in the adoption of a solution to the victims of domestic violence that are placed in shelters, publish the full addresses of the shelter so that the perpetrator visits them and stands at the doors of the shelter or gives the victim's phone numbers to the perpetrators, so the spouses, to turn to their spouses and try to settle the dispute in a peaceful manner. The victim re-changes, violently changes the peaceful environment and is forced to go to another shelter with children who have already become accustomed to the moon, perhaps in two days in kindergarten, at school, etc. Here, these are our situations where I say that it is compulsory education, education of judicial officers and officials and especially sensitization when it comes to domestic violence. We were able to achieve that under the protocol on the conduct of the rules of procedure, domestic violence comes into priority and haste. And I welcome such an initiative and hope that there will be consensus and understanding for the amendments to such a law in the Croatian Parliament. I wouldn't want to skip perhaps the two indiscretions that were brought here today. One came from a representative of the distinguished Mrs. Sunny Glavak who felt that I said in my presentation that education to Roma women did not have a Roma education opportunity. I must say that I said that in the context of the fact that Roma women today have a difficult access to high school education precisely because of the patriarchal system within the Roma community, which is why many don't even finish primary school and because of the consequences of underage marriages. So it's something that the Roma population, the Roma community, must fight and work to raise awareness of their members. As regards the Roma population and education and access to education for the past 10 years, the Republic of Croatia has done very much and has been commended on this plan by both the European Commission and the Council of Europe. Another misunderstanding I would not like to remain open is also from the distinguished representative Gordana Glavak related to that in her report
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9190	I apologize to the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9191	I'm sorry, Sunny. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. I must say this, the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality when it draws up its report is primarily based on complaints from citizens and citizens, and it is then required to process areas in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality. Whether to process a particular national policy, a strategy, etc., is on the evaluation of the Ombudsman's institution. National policy to promote gender equality 2011. – 2015 unfortunately was adopted in July 2011. We had the last quarter of the parliamentary elections, and I must say that we have deeply assessed whether we will talk about the document that was adopted in the 7th month and the implementation of the measures that were to be implemented in 2011. Of the 7 areas of national policy, we have chosen four areas that are very current and for which measures are prescribed to be implemented continuously. In these implementations, why is it not the competent authority of the Government's Gender Equality Office? It was not a tending intention, but it was exclusively about how to implement these measures and areas. Otherwise, the Office for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and what it was doing during 2011 was processed in several areas through the National Strategy for the Prevention of Family Violence. Finally, I would like to say that the Advocate's Office will continue to submit legislative initiatives to the competent authorities in certain areas in order to contribute to the improvement of existing legislative solutions by following EU legislation and European case law. I remind you that gender equality is one of the fundamental principles of the EU's acquis, and the overall objective is to ensure equal opportunities and combat sexual discrimination, which we should bear in mind as a candidate country and a future EU member. I also welcome the adoption of the Government Programme for the term of office 2011. – 2015 whose implementation will be closely monitored by the Government in its programme objectives to promote the gender dimension of all policies from education, health, economic to European integration policy and national security at all levels. I call upon you, distinguished representatives and MPs, when creating each document, to be guided by the principle of gender equality as the highest values of the constitutional order, and I would also refer to the final statement on gender equality. The Croatian Constitution has been set for gender equality as the highest value, as a principle, as a postulate. I would also like to call for each document to be adopted, with special attention, to pursue gender equality policy as one of the fundamental principles of democratic organisation and the state order of the Republic of Croatia. I hope I've managed to process all the areas. I welcome the initiative of the distinguished representative, Ruža Tomasic, regarding the government's consideration of recommendations and proposals, the implementation of all areas in its reports by the attorney general and special advisers. I thank you once again for your commitment, for your comprehensive debate, for your support, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9192	I thank Mrs. Ljubic and my associates. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when conditions are made. Tomorrow we start with the point of the Proposal for a Decision on the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament and the second point will be the debate on the Annual Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2011. Have a good day, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-31-0.u9193	Report on the work of the Ombudsman on gender equality for 2011. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality for 2011 is accepted. I'd like to make a statement as to who's behind this conclusion. Against? Restraint? I find the conclusion was accepted by a majority of 123 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. In accordance with the proposal of MP Ruža Tomasic, I am voting on the following conclusion: - Since the defence counsel's recommendations are repeated in most parts of the year, I propose that the Croatian Parliament should ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver a report on the implementation of the counsel's recommendations instead of delivering opinions on the proposed report in which it is most frequently polluted with analyses and opinions delivered by the Advocates. This would significantly improve the system of protection of human rights and contribute to the prevention of discrimination at all levels. In addition, the position of the Ombudsman as an independent body for the protection of human rights would be strengthened, which is required to submit its report only to the Croatian Parliament as the representative body of all Croatian citizens and to be responsible only for its work. I'd like to make a statement as to who's behind this conclusion. Who's against it? Restraint? I find that this conclusion was not accepted because 38 MPs and MPs voted for it, 6 were abstentions, and 82 were against it.
