ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25604	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. We're continuing the session. We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Election Register, second reading, P.Z. No. 171. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Local Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Mr Arsen Bauk's opening statement to the motionary's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25605	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Given that we had a relatively recent debate in the first reading and that it was quite exhaustive and detailed, I will try to explain briefly the Final Proposal for a Law on the register of voters, indicating the differences that are compared to the first reading. So the final proposal for a law on the register of voters has raised a primary solution to the issue that we believe will directly contribute to the list of voters. First of all, let me repeat the difference between registers and the voter list. The register is a permanent electronic database of voters who have the right to vote and are conducted on official duty through three records. The first register of voters residing in the Republic of Croatia, the second register of voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia and the third register of voters who are citizens of EU Member States. By content and meaning, it corresponds to the current list of voters. The list of voters becomes a list that is set up for each election. The list of voters includes voters from the Register but meets the conditions prescribed by law, which means they must have a valid ID card or have made one action if they do not have a valid ID card that they have done at least one action by which they are therefore included in the list of voters. We also defined that the address details of the register of voters are based on the Register of Space Units and on the same register is based on the residence records of the Ministry of the Interior. We also predicted the possibility of deleting voters from the register of residences in the Republic of Croatia and transferring them to the register of voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that these three mechanisms should have a significant impact on the change in public perception of voter census. Also in relation to the first reading, we have observed the following changes in addition to parliamentary debates. First, at the request of the Advocate General for persons with disabilities of the Resistant Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and a number of parliamentary deputies, we have therefore defined the voting rights of persons deprived of their business capacity. T We also defined the possibility of voting in welfare institutions. We also defined that participants in the electoral procedure can obtain the address details of the voters' names at the request of the Croatian Labour Club. That solution is in the law so far. We also extended the deadlines for the register of voters with the possibility of seeing fellow citizens into local voters' data in the office up to ten days before the election. We have also defined that there is no confirmation of the voter list by the polling committee of local self-government units for all elections, a referendum in the territory of the Republic of Croatia rather than the adopted demands by the Secretary of Administration's solution and as a legal remedy suit to the High Administrative Court. We also defined extracts from the list of voters when elections based on nationality are held and the proposal shows members of national minorities on a general excerpt for all elections that are not special elections based on national membership. As regards the difference in the first reading, therefore, the termology with the Final Law on residence has been harmonised, more precisely established by the person who enters the list of voters in order to cover the voters who have taken one action was a temporary entry, there was a previous registration and we have still moved several days of the date on which the ID card was highlighted in order not to let people who have expired their ID card from election day to election day in order not to be in the list of voters. Also, all participants of the election process, as I say so far, have been given insight into the list of voters while local self-government council members have been able to do so throughout the term of office. As far as the law is concerned, there are only two more sentences. First, when this law is passed in Croatia, it will be on the list of voters between 3 million and 3 million and 800 thousand voters, which is a number far more realistic than the current number of 4 million and 100 thousand. And secondly, for Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, we introduced the Institute of Active Registration as a prerequisite for introducing a letter vote for the Croatian Parliament in one of the next elections because constitutional provisions make it very difficult for Croatian citizens to vote without residence in the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, I call on the Croatian Parliament to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25606	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first one's the club's turn. Club of Croatian Labourist-Stranke work colleague Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25607	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President, Minister. In view of the fact that, between the first and second readings, the Proposer accepted the really serious and significant comments made in the debate, I will shorten my debate and explain only one amendment which I will submit to Article 50 of the proposed text of the law. For the purposes of Article 50(1) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013, the following paragraph is added: The voter lists are therefore concluded no later than 8 days before a certain election day or referendum, and I think it is 24 hours enough for the information provided for in Article 50 to be published on the websites so that voters and all participants of the election can predict, see what number of electoral bodies it is. There are no objections to the other proposed provisions. We consider the improved text of the law to be acceptable, and when you mention the time of the future letter vote required by constitutional changes, then we should consider not only the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia but also those who have a residence but are found abroad on the day of the election, because the availability of the polling post is as problematic as those who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, so it is a complex issue so that we do not forget about that part of the electoral body. I hope the minister accepts this amendment to Article 50. And thus help with the majority of votes finally adopt a good law on voter registration.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25608	Thank you very much. It is up to SDP and counterpart Tonka Ivcevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25609	Honored vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with co-workers, fellow MPs and MPs. At first, I would like to express my satisfaction that the minister has accepted the SDP's comments, or the SDP's club's proposal, to consider the Ombudsman's initiative for persons with disabilities, and related to the exercise of the electoral right of persons with disabilities related to persons with disabilities. Therefore, paragraph 4 of Article 14 is deleted in the text of the final proposal of the Law on the Register of Voters, and paragraph 17(1) deletes the words of those persons who have been deprived of voting law by a judicial decision. It was also amended in Article 64 of that Regulation that all persons who are subject to the Law on the register of voters are fully devoid of their business capacity and will be registered in the register of voters. I would also like to express my satisfaction that the applicant has accepted the proposal of MP Dragutin Lesar to allow all participants in the electoral process to gain insight into voter data. Therefore, Article 25 of the amended paragraph 2 has been prescribed that, following the confirmed lists, the competent office, at the written request of the participants in the selection procedure, will provide information with the personal name and address of the voters within 24 hours of receipt of the application. It is well known that in Croatia there is an unsettled list of voters, and if we want to improve the electoral system and solve the problems that arise during the elections, a list of voters based on the actual state of the electoral body should be established. The establishment of a register of voters, which electronic databases on the voting rights of all voters who exercise this right in the Republic of Croatia, will give them the accuracy and update of the list of voters that will correspond to the true state and thus increase transparency related to the conduct of elections but also the results themselves. The list of voters is only part of the register of voters set up after its closure and concludes no later than 8 days before the day specified for holding the election or referendum. Therefore, with the voter register and beyond, there will be a list of voters but a prerequisite for enrollment in that list will be a valid ID card, and not as could be accessed to the elections so far with another document, such as a passport that does not have to be a direct proof of permanent residence. The information on addresses in the register of voters is based on the register of spatial units and is based on the records of the residence of the MUP so that data will be harmonised from the publication of the register and it will no longer be possible for... addresses to be entered in 40 to 50 voters if it is not a multi-story. The registry will be conducted through three records, Croatian citizens resident in the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, and EU citizens will allow clearer distinction, and given the easier possibility of updating, the data's actuality as well as their availability will increase. At any moment, it will be possible to know the exact number of voters that should avoid situations such as in the last few elections in the Republic of Croatia took place in as many as 6 counties where the number of voters eventually exceeded the population, even without taking into account the number of minors. Avoiding such situations certainly goes in favour of the regularity of the election. In favour of achieving the same goals, the possibility of eradicating voters from voters who are included among voters with residence and have moved abroad. The fact that voters without a residence in the Republic of Croatia will have to register actively before each election in order to enter the list of voters would avoid controversial situations such as the vote of those who have already passed away, which we know has been a very common case before, especially when it comes to XI. the electoral unit. Active registration will be conducted for each election and only active registered voters will enter the list of voters. They will be held abroad by diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia, and in Croatia the competent office according to the place where voters meet on election day, or referendum. This means that we will no longer have 450 thousand voters in the diaspora, but that number that is registered before each election. In addition to the active registration, the Institute of Previous Registration and the provisional registration shall be prescribed. The previous registration is intended for Croatian citizens residing in Croatia who will find themselves abroad on the day of the election or the state referendum, and for those who wish to vote in Croatia outside their place of residence. An application for temporary registration, unlike a valid legal solution, will be able to be submitted in any office independently of the place of entry in the register of voters. As regards the list of voters, if the elections are conducted on the basis of national membership, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be on the general census according to the place of residence and members of national minorities will be on the additional census. In this way, the practice so far will be abolished that members of national minorities must declare, type or sign off on the electoral list, in breach of the secrecy of the vote in some way, as well as bring them into an unpleasant situation. This law leaves the possibility of voting for welfare institutions, extending deadlines for the voter census to 10 days before the vote is held, the voter list will no longer be confirmed by the Commission for the List of Local Self-Government Units, but will be done by the state administration in whose jurisdiction it is, and a single programme solution for data processing will be introduced so that at any moment the exact number of voters will be known. We are assessing the law on compliance with the European Union since it also addresses the possibility for citizens of other EU Member States to go to the elections in Croatia when representatives for the European Parliament are elected after Croatia's entry into the EU. Finally, I believe that this proposal for a law on voter register removes any doubt about the regularity of the elections in Croatia and thus confirms the functioning democracy in the Republic of Croatia as a future member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25610	Thank you. Replica, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25611	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I cannot agree with you that this active registration for Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia will contribute to the democracy of our electoral system simply because it will actually make it difficult for Croatians, Croatian citizens living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia to vote. Asking them to, and that's not a rare case for those who live, for example. 300 or 400 km or more away, that they must double access our embassy or consulate, so one thing to register and the other to go to vote. It is, in fact, aggravating their right to vote and it is not something that will increase the democracy of the system but actually reduce the participatoryness of our democratic system because it is being denied or made more difficult to actually vote on Croatian citizens who are in that category, therefore living outside the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I can't agree with your finding that this is one step that will make it possible to improve the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25612	It is next to the HNS club and counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25613	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have already discussed very extensively in the first reading on the subject of the proposal of this law, and the HNS welcomes the many respected remarks of the meanings that have entered into the final draft of the law. We also welcome the public debate that had previously been carried out on this law, and we believe that there is a very high degree of agreement between all political options, that order should be introduced, and that this law is also passed not only by this law, but also by the whole set of laws that we discussed yesterday and we will discuss today, and it concerns the list of voters and the establishment of residences, but also by general elections for local self-government and the Law on Local Self-Government. This problem we've had, which we've been discussing for many years, is, of course, the most common post-festum since the election, where the real problems were very obvious because they could manifest themselves to numbers. For HNS, the problem is primarily the regularity of the entire election procedure, meaning legality but what may be even more important is the legitimacy of the chosen people, i.e. the elected authorities in the elections. And all the procedures provided for by this law, let's hope that they will contribute significantly to the absence and that they will not be, means after the publication of the results of the concerns and the debates we had in the previous few cycles of the elections. So the data that says we have more than 4 million, means 4 million and 100,000 approximately registered voters, and that as many as 340,000 people don't have IDs as a basic identification document. So more than 9% of citizens don't have a basic identification document is something that's completely unacceptable for a single state. So this law will also encourage the setting up of this element by us of one of the preconditions in general that our citizens can exercise their rights, our citizens can participate not only in the electoral processes, but in general function regularly within a single rule of law. We are pleased that it is regulated and means the case with those voters who are not permanently resident, who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia, who, of course, will, by their own free will and will be able to participate in the election process. Because the election process is one willing element above all, and we welcome this solution in the Croatian People's Party as we welcome the possibility that elections are held in some places where it has been almost impossible so far, and these are nursing homes. They are persons who have been unable or unable to access polling stations, persons who have questionable business ability or have it or who do not have it, who will also solve their problem through this law. So there are a whole series of solutions that are both practical and open up the possibility of democratisation of the whole process, and above all the transparency of this process. I don't think we should overly politicize the subject. She's primarily of a practical nature. Of course, any topic can be politicized, but the intention of the Croatian People's Party has never gone in that direction to politicise the topics that are our particular problem. Let's solve the problem and go to the next local elections with a much more transparent, logical, more transparent and logical system than we've had so far. I think all of our citizens will welcome that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25614	Thank you. A colleague has three replicas on your display. Comrade Miroslav Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25615	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague here in her presentation said that there are 300,000 or over 300,000 persons without a ID card and that this process will bring more order. Depends on how we look at it. We have a large number of Croatian people or Croatian citizens who live abroad, who according to this, are Croatian citizens but do not have a ID card. Therefore, this will only introduce order so much that we will wipe out, that is, the right of Croatian citizens to have the right to what the Constitution guarantees them that they can go to the vote. Therefore, this calling for a ID card is only an alibi for a decision that can only be voted in the DKPs because it would be much more normal to make a decision in the spirit of time and what will happen is a correspondence vote. Because for one to two probably election cycles, the whole decision and constitutional will be simply counterproductive, i.e. past the time in which we live.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25616	The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Next replica, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25617	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's my colleague, you mentioned that this law will increase or democratisation or go in the further direction of democratisation of our electoral system. But democratisation has always meant increasing the participatoryness of the people in the decision-making process. So, when sometimes the democratisation of the electoral system meant that they couldn't just vote those who paid a certain amount of tax rather than go to all citizens, democratisation meant increasing the electoral body so that women too could do what was once forbidden. This law does not go in the direction of democratisation, but rather narrowing it down, so as to make it difficult for one category of Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens to exercise the rights they have constitutionally guaranteed the right to vote. Why? Because they are asked, in fact, by one administrative measure that they must register before that, which is one obstacle for many. I said it before, and I'm gonna do it again. It is not a rare case that people should go more than 300, 400 km to register and then do it again on election day to vote. So it is really too much to ask, and it is the main intention obviously of this law that as few citizens who do not reside in the Republic of Croatia go to elections, and democratisation would mean actually the urgency that as many people go to elections as possible, that all Croatian citizens can fulfil that constitutional right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25618	And the last replica Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25619	Honored Madam President, the colleague said she was glad that this would regulate the status of citizens outside the Republic of Croatia in terms of voting. I don't agree with my co-worker. This wants to be regulated only in a bad way for Croats outside Croatia. Listen, I don't get it, I'm saying I don't get enough of this election law stuff. I claim that this law is electoral generally referring to Croats outside Croatia, the diaspora and so on and these national ones that it is not good, that it is not good. We all know that this is a 1-to-one dose of power, say national minorities and Croats in diaspora. And that's how the number of parliamentary deputies was supposed to be. How many diaspora and so many national minorities and that would be fair. That would be fair, that would be correct. And to choose in the same way and over. This negotiation, it was all painful and difficult. But what I want to say now is if we have done all of this in some way as it was done, so why have we limited ourselves to Croats in BiH, say, in the diaspora but in BiH in particular, to translate what is said in practical language that they cannot vote in 100 seats but in consulates, into the embassy. And that's ghettoization. Send 300 or 500 thousand people to vote in 50 squares in one day it's gonna send them to the ghetto. And we sent them to the ghetto. We humiliated them needlessly. If we've fixed it on three representatives, then why should we humiliate these people to send them to Sarajevo or what do I know in Banja Luka in 50 square meters? Are we normal people, we have brains and how we think? No, I'm not. I really don't understand what this was all about. That's my point, and I'm not going to change my mind. Without need, it is the consequence of the Croatian complex that it always goes on its own and something is printed by some Croats down there, so that someone and something at some point prove themselves like I don't know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25620	Thank you. Replica response, Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25621	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Marasovic and I won't change my mind if you allow me to, but I allow you to have your opinion. What's the intensity of this law is ultimately preventing the possibility of manipulation. We have had and we have catastrophic disproportion in numbers and in this data on voters' lists, around the number of inhabitants and I believe and the HNS believes that if there is a possibility of manipulation at this point, then it is not democracy. And in that sense, we think this is a democratic step. That may not be the case for you, but for us at the HNS, preventing manipulation is certainly a step towards democratisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25622	Thank you very much. It's the HDZ Club and colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25623	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Today, we already have in our second reading the Final Proposal of the Law on the Registration of Voters, it is practically impossible to discuss it without the law we discussed yesterday, which is the Law on residence that introduced some new methods. One of them is erasing the residence records by official duty of police administrations and their services. As we objected yesterday that this procedure is highly questionable in view of the inability to protect the rights of those who will be deleted by this procedure without going to the administrative courts which we fear will take too long, so you will be guaranteed a right that may come to you in the rightful court too late to determine that you were entitled to something that the state has denied you will further complicate the achievement of the Constitution guaranteed rights. This law, I must refer to it, is the basis for the adoption of this law, as it says in the introduction of this law, and on which official records will be based and the Law on the Registration of Voters. As we said in our first reading, we welcome the desire and the will to introduce more order into the register or lists of voters. We also think that something good has happened for the first time, and that is that the Law on residence has been amended, which even allows for order to be introduced into the Voter Registry, but as we said in the first reading, we are concerned about the methods in which it will be achieved. I understand that it was a pre-election promise of the ruling coalition that it would introduce order into the Voter Registry, but we are opposed to it being done exclusively by mathematical methods without taking into account and the rights guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution, without taking into account that all citizens have the right to protect their rights which they can also exercise in the administrative procedure, the procedure before the authorities of the state administration, and then, unless it is settled there in a satisfactory way that they remain entitled to judicial protection. And so we think that this law is sending about the voters' register one wrong and one bad message that we can't support. What's this about? The point is that all Croatian citizens who do not live in the Republic of Croatia had the right to start at twelve MPs in parliament. By amending the Constitution, their representation from 12 fell to only 3 MPs, not taking into account the fact that the Croats live outside Croatia, how many Croatian citizens live outside Croatia and how much should they be represented in parliament. However, by amending the Constitution, we have limited their representation to three MPs, but that is not the end. We are now going to introduce additional restrictions with a new law for them. This restriction is called active registration in this law. They are, by all regulations, especially as regards the constitution, even with all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, in order to exercise their right, they will now have to register actively before each election. This means before each election will have to come only to the diplomatic consular representations and say or send it to the information office, I want to participate in the next election and on the day of the election I will have to come from Colorado Springs to the nearest consular office, probably in Los Angeles or quite irrelevant, 2000 km in order to vote in the elections that are scheduled in the Republic of Croatia. That's what some have already said about disabling if you want in a slightly more subtle way to exercise their right to vote in elections that are being debated in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we think such a law with such a solution can't be supported. The second question is whether it is possible to introduce an active registration obligation for one part of the vote without which you cannot participate in the elections and the larger part that does not have that obligation. All of us who live in Croatia and who are registered so far will not have to pass the active registration process but will be considered to be registered voters and that as such we can participate in the elections. This is what we think is a key objection to this law and that is why this law must not be supported because it makes a difference between voters living in the Republic of Croatia and all those living outside the Republic of Croatia. We also have comments on several articles in this law. Article 10 states that the voter in the voters' register may be registered for only one city or municipality or state. This or the state is talking about the intention of you to talk about those who live in Austria that they can be enrolled there, but they are not voters for that country, they are voters for a particular individual in the Republic only living in that country, so just because of the linguistic expression to make it clear I think that this term should be fixed. Article 28 of the active registration of voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia is that we hold that it is discriminatory against all other voters in the Republic of Croatia and that we believe that this active registration that may be real with the aim of one day introducing and a correspondence vote is welcome when the technical possibilities will be that all under the same conditions can also vote by letter. Article 40 refers to the provisional entry into the register of voters who will vote outside the place of residence. This article, though, seems benignly hiding a very dangerous intention in itself. I'll have to read it so I can explain what's going on. "Employers who, on election day or state referendum, are to be found outside the city or municipality in which they are resident may be temporarily registered for the city or municipality on the day of the elections or the state referendum." I don't even have to read any further. So, this would mean in a specific case if you live in Split and on the day of the election you want to vote in Zagreb, according to the text you will be posted to the list of voters for the City of Zagreb so that you can exercise your right. This changes the number of voters in a single unit in a way that increases the ability to influence the elections in that local self-government unit, not that you in the city of Zagreb vote for the bodies of the city of Split. Read it and you'll understand what I'm talking about. You cannot be listed as a city or municipality where you will be on election day, but you can exercise your right in that city but you will vote and choose for the unit from which you came. Article 49 speaks of something that has to do with everything you've talked about, and that's what's changed in relation to the law so far, and gives the right to the Minister of Administration or the Central Authority who deals with the issues of the administration to conclude the list of voters for the whole country if elections are held in the whole of its area. This would technically mean that Minister of Management will have to conclude, in the next election, a list of voters for the town of Grubisno Polje and I think you didn't want to do so, so don't even give yourself such authority because if the head of the body of the state administration which can be controlled is also in charge of implementing this law concludes the list of voters then against a locked, so concluded list of voters no longer exists. And all those who would like to object to such a closed list of voters will not be able to do so because you did not foresee that they have the right to protect their rights after you conclude the list of voters. And to conclude a list of voters for each unit of local self-government because local elections will take place in the area of the country's price, I think it's a pretty pointless thing. The second option is where you left the leaders at the local level to do it by throwing out those commissions. Something about this was also said in the first reading and the question of whether this is a good solution in the law. However, I would go back to what we think is crucial. Active registration as an idea may be a good but active registration that will concern only one part of the electoral body sends a completely wrong message. It sends a message to all those living outside Croatia. When we talk about investment, when we talk about defending the interests of the country, then we welcome you, but when we talk about the exercise of your rights then we will first reduce you to citizens of the second row compared to those who live in Croatia, and after that we will try to make it impossible for you in any way that you can achieve your right in any way, regardless of whether we will tie it to personal documents or the fact that you will have to travel thousands of miles to achieve your constitutionally guaranteed right. The happy circumstance is that it has also been shown in previous elections that the DIP then had to correct the law in such a way as to issue mandatory instructions that ordered different behaviours from those provided for by the law. So they're like that. allow all voters to exercise their rights even though they do not have valid documents. The problem with you is that these people won't be able to legitimize themselves because they won't even be in the voters list anymore because they won't be able to register and do these jobs that you're putting on their burden. And this raises another particular issue that is broader than the debate on the Law on the Registration of Voters. One that will be actively registered will be the voter's mass in some way, or that constituency that is concerned, and then you will determine the percentage that determines their rights, and that is what is totally inappropriate. So if you're going to reduce the number of voters from 100 grand to 2 grand then the 10% that can be the percentage of the right is going to be a whole different size than the one of the 100 grand that you had on your list. In view of all this we suggest if nothing else is here with the repeated request and in the second reading that the idea of active registration is extended or for all voters for which there is probably no time because then you will get the right results and then you will get the fact that they are listed in the current list of voters or that it will probably be easier and easier to postpone this application during the time when you will be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25624	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first one is Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25625	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of the Mlakar you mentioned that this bill is also the fruit of a pre-election promise. But which one? I see it is, in fact, the fruit of that 2007 pre-election promise that Croats in emigration and Croats in BiH are abolishing their right to vote and that this proposal goes with it. You said what was the basis for this law. well, the basis is obviously a policy which believes that Croats in emigration and Croats in BiH cannot love Croatia. Obviously, this is the basis for a law like this that goes again to discriminate and divide Croatian citizens into different categories instead of going exactly the way you suggested. It will either be an active registration for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia or will not be for anyone and thus preserve the equality of all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25626	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25627	Dear fellow Stier, you're absolutely right. In fact, this is the fruit of politics to make it impossible in any way for all those who are in the perception of the current government to be the electoral body of some other political options, not only to come down to three MPs in Parliament, but that these potential voters cannot express their political beliefs at all and are in the elections at all. I tried to illustrate only by traveling, and you can imagine from such a small relatively small date about 19% in the election early in 2000, the outing of our voters abroad in which the number will fall now that we have made it impossible for them to do so in an even decent way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25628	Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25629	Dear colleague here you were right when you said this law should have been related to the Law of residence which it was indeed meant to be. On the other hand, in the Law of Residence itself, and yesterday we were witnesses and even the chairman of the Trail who pretended to know nothing, that he saw nothing, heard nothing, when we were accused of being hypocrites, that we were implementing and that we wanted not to continue, but that we wanted to implement an ethnic cleansing policy through this law, the fact that these two bound laws bring into a truly discriminatory relationship between Croats who have all Croatian documents, have Croatian citizenship, who also have a residence in the Republic of Croatia that speaks and their identity card, originating in BiH, were not republics, unlike those who do not have a single Croatian document and come exclusively to elections, were local. Most of the time. They're coming by bus. So the active registration issues that are related, so you don't have to come from Colorado Springs, it's enough to, for example. start from Gradnić towards certain embassies and consulates in BiH and you will not be able to register actively to go to the elections. I listened well to everything that was in the media today, and that speech yesterday by Pupovac was a hate speech against the HDSSB and the HDSSB representatives, and the chairman had neither seen nor heard nor was he interested in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25630	Thank you very much. Vice President Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25631	Comrade Mlakar, you claim that the introduction of active voter registration for voters outside the Republic of Croatia is discriminatory and that the aim of this government is to discriminate against these voters in relation to those in the Republic of Croatia and here you are wrong, but you are trying and creating a confusion among citizens. Why would the active registration of voters in the Republic of Croatia actually be one unnecessary abuse of citizens? Because the state can control its list of voters in the Republic of Croatia. And it would be simple humiliation, bullying unnecessary citizens, so why don't you sign up actively, and I, as a state, have all the instruments to control whether you really are the voter and whether you have the right to vote. The Republic of Croatia, as you know, cannot exercise that control beyond its borders, can not, because other countries have their sovereignty and do not rightly allow it to do so. In BiH, we can't level voter lists, say, with the Dead Matica. How are we going to do that when they're a sovereign state? But to make sure that only those who have, who are alive and who have the right to vote, will go to the elections, their active registration is required. Maybe this whole thing wouldn't have been necessary if the observers hadn't found the vote of the dead because someone came with five people from all over their family and voted five times, but that's what the observers found. That's what he's trying to stop, and it seems to bother you that he's trying to stop it, and that's what's finally gonna stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25632	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25633	Dear Vice President, you can insinuate this election or vote of the dead as many times as you want, and I will warn you when you have taught me so nicely that you are wrong again, because it will be possible for all of these regulations to happen that a person dies on the list of voters, but of course it does not mean that she will vote in the elections. What your observers were able to determine, they found that there was a person on the list of voters who died. Statistically compared to our number of voters, 1,000 to 1200 people died from the voter census to the election day. All those 1200 will be on the list, and when you make such a law a register of voters and whether they vote or not, it is a matter of circuses that you every time try to present when it comes to elections and voter lists. And it's not true that I didn't know how many thousands of dead who really voted because that's not what you're questioning either the Resort Ministry or its application of the law, but the electoral committees that need to determine it, and on election committees if you're sent to sit and your representatives, so if anything else were always important for HDZ, then at least your colleagues in the election boards would see it and prevent it. I wonder if maybe the dead you're talking about have voted for you, and now you're trying even to reduce the possibility of those who would live come to the election in foreign countries to report because they don't support you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25634	And the last replica, Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25635	Comrade Mlakar, you certainly have the right to your opinion and no one disputes it but it seems to me that really when you want to introduce order into the register of voters on your part there is a footing to prevent it. You have the right to think about the active registration you want and you have the right to present it, and the doubts of this nature are that the dead voted for the SDP or the coalition, but I'm surprised that you weren't concerned and that you weren't making such a burning speech when in Kaštel, for example, more people voted next to Split than you live there, when it was in Vrgorec, you weren't interested in that somehow. That seemed kind of normal to you. ... Well, it was, come on, I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to my colleague, Llakar. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Consider what was the perception of the public in Croatia about what was going on. And miracles have been happening and it's not easy to put them in order today and I assure you it's not easy because you've been in power, your party too long to handle it in one term but it's trying. Well, let's not get into a food address, I don't know 100 people, I don't know an apartment 30 square meters. Well, no matter who the Chinese, we've knocked down all the laws of physics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25636	Thank you very much. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25637	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Jurjevic, first of all, I would like to thank you for allowing me to have an opinion that doesn't have to match yours. And in this case it doesn't match. And what you've now accumulated in your replica is much wider than what we've talked about. You're talking about addresses that people who don't really live on have applied to. It's the subject of yesterday's law. You are too late to comment, but I will warn you that the town of Hvar has not today made a decision of the City Council on streets and home numbers, so it will happen to you that 4200 people live in Hvar, so you will wonder if they can all be on the list of voters for elections, as they can. Therefore, the problems are much broader and they did not arise at the time that you want to input HDZ authorities, because what is only important on official records, so if you want the list of people you constantly draw out, you will not be eligible for a new census according to the number of voters that you will make beautiful because your census will cover an even smaller number of people. They're different records. You can't compare them. You can't compare pears and apples, and you keep doing it because you think your arguments get strength. Therefore, what is important for the elections and what is not our intention to plant anyone's leg is to warn, that if we are already doing order to make order right, and not to delete from the voter list people who have the right to vote, choose and be elected, because by means of the Constitution guaranteed rights of these people you cannot delete. That's what we're warning, not the fact that order should be introduced. And how many riots were in the list of voters, that's what the corrections that are below the statistical error level of 0.03% for those who objected to the list are telling you because it was wrongly drawn up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25638	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary, Minister of Management Arsen Baurk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25639	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'll try to look back at the clubs so far. It means Article 10 and Article 40 of the final text of the law that we have proposed. Therefore, Article 40 of the Law is identical to Article 20 of the valid Law on the List of Voters. And there was never a problem in its application. So, someone who would like to, so local elections cannot be voted outside the place of residence, and in elections where Croatia is one electoral unit, so for the president in the referendum and in elections for the European Parliament, there is no difference, so where the vote is listed because there are no electoral units. In the elections for the Croatian Parliament of citizens who are resident in Split, he finds himself in Zagreb. It is registered to the list of voters for a special polling post in Zagreb, but for the tenth constituency. But that's what the current law says, and that's how it was implemented. ... Well, that wasn't an observation and there was no application problem. [[You can't hear it.]] If there's a better formula, but I think. Therefore, as regards Article 10, the lists of voters are for the city, the municipality, or the state. So this or the state refers to citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia because we can lead them somewhere. So we have 500 and some municipalities, we have 100 and some countries in the world where we have Croatian citizens and it's being guided, so by states, we have a list for them. If someone is present on election day has residence in Croatia, abroad, they will be registered in a consulate where they have previously registered and will vote in favour of the electoral unit as they have voted so far. So that's where I don't think there's gonna be a problem with the application. As far as the identification itself is concerned, we have observed the suggestion of the State Election Commission in the Law on Local Elections and the valid document is not a condition for identification, but is the instrument by which the electoral committee can undoubtedly determine that it is the person, and the list of voters will be subject to the conditions of the law. Therefore, it must be an adult Croatian citizen, resident or valid card or this certificate that it will receive. Therefore, I also believe that there will be no problem. We followed those suggestions. As for Mr. Lesar's proposal, we're going to analyse the amendment to the Labour Club. We'll see, so if he corrects the text, we'll be clear about him. And now I'd like to say a few words about what every time you discuss any election topics or something about election issues or something about something that has to do with something, what has to do with election topics always comes up on three things, and that's minority voting and diaspora voting in short. Although it is in the Constitution, therefore a general and equal voting law is declared, we must make it clear that this general electoral law in Croatia is not a general and equal electoral right. We have three types of voting rights. One is therefore for citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are resident in Croatia who have general voting rights and are equal but only among them. The second is the voting right of members of national minorities who, other than general, can also exercise additional voting rights. And the third is the voting right of citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. And those three rights are not equal, no matter what they are declared in the Constitution, and we need to make that clear. And it's so from certain circumstances that we can call historical or otherwise. This is the consequence, therefore, of some circumstances in which constitutional solutions have been made, including this last one from 2010. But that's what we discussed in our first reading. Now, what do we want to achieve by active registration? So I also said in the opening statement that we want to create conditions for Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia to vote by letter in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. And if we can get a consensus on that, we'll make the necessary advances to make that happen. In that case citizens will not have to go from Colorado Springs to Los Angeles, they will not have to go I don't know from place A to place B but will be able to do so at one point and will receive a letter, namely in some technical form from the state of the Croatian ballot and he will return it to where it should be. It is something that should be done and it will not have an impact on either the number or anything because three MPs are three MPs, however many people vote. What's the active registration going to look like at this point? So it won't make it difficult to exercise the electoral right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they will be able to do so on the day of the election at the embassy where they come to vote, as they will, so they will get, will be actively registered and will receive a ballot. What do we get with that? We get two things. First, it is true that the voter mass is reduced, which is particularly important for the referendum. So, if in the referendum law we now have a censorship of the number of outers if we have any censorship regarding the number of voters, it will be easier for us to make decisions in the Republic of Croatia by active registration because the number of voters needed for something will be far less. If that's half it's somewhere for nearly 200 grand in Croatia, and if that's a third as we suggested in the Law on Local Self-Government, then it'll be somewhere more, so for 260, 270 thousand. So that's exactly what you said and it's just been done to reduce the number of voters in Croatia in a referendum to make a decision. So it goes in favor of the Institute of Referendum. Also, elections for the President of the Republic and elections for the European Parliament would give a more realistic picture of going out to the elections, and no one would still be deprived of their right to vote because I repeat, therefore, the person who comes to the polling office in the register of voters will be registered at the embassy or at the consulate. However, we won't have 450 thousand voters, we'll have them in the register, but we'll have the number that's actively registered. This will reduce our censorship in Croatia, make it more realistic. When so, I am glad that you have said that you recognize the good idea about the possibility of a letter vote, so when conditions are created for that, and if in the first next elections in which this institute is applied, we are going to get a letter vote. Also, as regards what MP Tudjman said about valid documents, so all those in the voters' list now, all Croatian full-time citizens are still in the voters' register and they can all exercise their electoral right now. However, I do not think that this active registration procedure makes it difficult to exercise electoral rights in an important and irrelevant way because they can do so on the spot when they come to the polling station where they would otherwise come and there is no active registration. And those who can identify themselves in the polling post can do so with any Croatian document, it is not necessary to have a valid ID card as much as citizens who do not have a residence in Croatia do not have a valid ID card, and citizens who have a residence in Croatia who do not have a valid ID card may have some other document, such as a passport with which they can also be identified. I therefore believe that the adoption of this law is therefore an improvement in the electoral process. Thank you for these remarks that we will still try to discuss until the vote, and as regards the Institute of Active Registration, it should therefore be looked at with the intention that a letter vote should be put in place in the further process of improving the election process in Croatia, because for us, the story of the diaspora vote has ended with constitutional changes in 2010. We have reached a compromise that I don't think there is a need to open it further on the number of MPs, on the place of voting, etc. And so now, in the context of that, we're proposing something that can be feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25640	Thank you. We have three replicas. Davorin's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25641	Dear Mr. Minister, it's very well taken and bravely your understanding of the Constitution, but unfortunately you are not invited here to interpret the Constitution. Whether there are three types of voting rights or not it may be a theoretical debate, but the Constitution guarantees you equal voting rights to all Croatian citizens with 18 years of life and that distinction that you do in some of your discussions cannot confirm constitutional nor on the basis of how you understand the Constitution you can write laws, it is my deep conviction. Therefore, my suggestion is that no matter how you read the Constitution, I think that a solution in which there is a different electoral right for Croatian citizens is not a constitutional solution. And that's why we're against these measures that you're talking about. And there is another argument, this law that introduces the active registration of some voters enters into force 8 days from the day of publication in the National Journal, we assume after your majority votes soon. And your intention to have a correspondence vote is only in the hope that one day it will happen. Until then, however, the norms of this law will be valid, and the possibility of a correspondence vote will not exist. Therefore, we can only be at the level of belief that one day something else will be introduced, then it would be logical to have an active registration, not before.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25642	Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25643	Here, Mr. Minister, this law should be really closely tied to the Law on residence, which in itself is a form of discrimination. So, on the one hand, it makes it impossible, above all, to go to elections for Croatian citizens, whether they have dual citizenship or not, but they have Croatian documents. And it places an exception that is linked to persons covered by the renovation and housing programme. So, responsibly, this is not about any policy of ethnic cleansing and we are witnessing that the only touching link with Croatia is the 30 buses during any kind of election and it is the only thing that binds to Croatia. Because most of these people don't have basic documents that bind them to the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, one method of correspondence or voting we had there somewhere in the mid-90s when a merchant ship or a tanker from Karakas came and as a result of the differences in time zones, these voters voted on the very ship that went from Latin America, and just as these voices were that big an election control, and this is going to happen in this sequence of correspondence because if it is a fact. It is not a fact that the dead also vote, then the rest of these parties in power would not change the parties in power by means of a correspondence or transport vote if Ante Djapic entered the parliament. Fortunately, he's gone today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25644	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25645	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary said that it is brave of you to interpret the Constitution, I will say that it is brave or almost rude to tell us that we now recognize the idea of a letter vote as a good idea that you present to us today. You were here in the Parliament, I don't know if you were in the working group to prepare the amendments to the Constitution or to the Constitutional Committee, but I must remind you that the SDP then refused the union any thought of a letter vote presenting to us and describing the possible abuses by applying this institute. I must say that at that time you refused the union, that your only purpose and purpose was that, you are now saying that a compromise has been reached for three Croatian representatives who have a residence, or Croatian citizens who have a residence outside the Republic of Croatia. That was a condition. We went to constitutional changes because Croatia's EU accession required access to the accession of the accession treaty and the referendum and one of those compromise solutions as you say was also required that the number of representatives from the colloquial diaspora was said but there were also Croatian citizens from the BIH area are reduced to three equal to national minorities and that the Constitution limits the place where they can vote and these are diplomatic consular representations and the number of voters in the special elections clearly showed you how many of these people were disbursed of course because they had neither the funds nor the opportunities to push miles to reach their constitutional right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25646	Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25647	Here's the deal. I can answer the first line, but I didn't want to. So as far as interpreting general and equal rights, so I don't hold that I've said too much blood because we have MPs in the House who have been elected with 15 thousand votes, we have elected with several hundred votes, and we have therefore representatives with 11 constituencies who would have been elected no matter how many votes, they could have with 400 thousand and they could have been with 3 thousand, so if we look at that numbered part, it's absolutely not the same, and in that context I was saying, and it's quite in a different way their right and regulated, and we all have a general and equal but it's now for a philosophical debate I agree. As far as the idea of a letter vote is concerned, I did not say that the good idea of a letter vote was recognised, but that the active registration was recognised as a good idea if it leads to a correspondence vote. I think I used that term, but you're absolutely right when you said we weren't in favour of a post-election vote in 2010 because for a letter vote, there must be a condition for a voter's list of what we think an active registration will do. We were at the time discussing changes to the Constitution and it is not true that we advocated that there should be 3 MPs in the diaspora, we advocated that there should be none. We made that clear in the 2007 elections like you, I'm telling you, I'm saying it's meant to stay as boring. And these three are a compromise, so they all have made some effort to give up their initial positions because of the higher goal that was to enter, so constitutional changes that would therefore enable EU entry, and I must admit that it was much more difficult for you than we are. And that's more, I think it's an effort to appreciate, and every time I discuss it, that's what I'm going to stress. So this is a compromise, and the compromise was between staying as it is now and being zero, and that compromise contains it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25648	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired in 10.37 minutes for the application of the debate for ten minutes. And we continue to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25649	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Election Register. First of all, it might be good if a compromise could be reached in a law like this because the aim of the law is to settle the voter list and finally determine who in the Republic of Croatia has the right to vote at any level of the elections. However, since the first reading, we have seen that this compromise cannot be achieved. If we sincerely recall the debate on changes to the Constitution in 2010, then it should be said that the compromise was reached not because of the EU's demand when it comes to the vote of Croats outside the Croatian borders in the diaspora, but rather as a compromise. Then it should be said that the compromise was reached not because of the EU's demand for the vote of Croats outside the diaspora borders but rather because of the compromise of political tension over the change of the constitution. There would be no change to the Constitution because we need to achieve this two-thirds majority due to the insistence of the SDP then in the opposition and partners to limit the number of MPs from the diaspora to only three, which is good today that it is guaranteed by the Constitution at least three, and what is not good is the total unwillfulness of voters outside the borders of Croatia because 30 voters and 300 and 300 thousand or 450 will always be three. We thought it was not good at the time, and if the political will of the electoral body throughout history in that part of 11 the electoral unit was different than it would have probably not been to insist on such a firm compromise but to remain as it was. That is how it should be told the truth for the will to tell what really happened then and should be said it was not a condition for Croatia's entry into the EU but rather a political outwitting, stretching and underestimation in order to change the Constitution in 2010. We cannot agree, Mr. Minister, that this active voter registration will bring a better solution when it comes to voting rights that do not live in the Republic of Croatia. This will create further problems and further disinterest of that part of the electoral body to go to elections at all. Why? For a few reasons. A small number of citizens will enter this active registration for each vote because it is known that our emigrants live in remote areas from the place of work to where they should register. They are already losing the will to get diplomatic and consular representations to register for the vote. We already see there a possible lack of interest for those workers who are uncomfortable and because of the work they do and because of the place where they live that because of any level of election they will withdraw to the place of diplomatic and consular representation to register actively. The diplomatic representations of the Republic of Croatia will become mere notebooks of those who wish to vote or will not be activated too much about collecting data in Croatian communities in emigration unless they want to. So our diplomatic representations will only be a mere executioner of the will of that part of the electoral body who will or will not come to the diplomatic representation to register for certain elections. It will weaken the interest of Croatian emigrants and Croats in BiH for stronger ties with the Republic of Croatia, and thus for economic integration for all those ties that have been linked throughout history by our two states. We will create two categories of Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens who will be able to work and can use their rights under Article 32. The Constitution and which will consume the rights set out in this article and Croatian citizens who will not be able to exercise their rights under the same article. It should be recalled that this law itself without amending the residence law that we discussed yesterday would make no sense. If the residence law is in accordance with Article 32 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the residence law shall apply from the date of entry into force of this The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is seen not because Article 32 is guaranteed that anyone legally located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia has the right to move and choose a place of residence, that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to leave the territory of the State at any time and to settle permanently or temporarily abroad and at any time return to the country, the right to move on the territory of the Republic of Croatia to enter and exit from it will only be subject to the law if it is necessary to protect the legal order or the health of the right and freedom of others. So that's absolutely not what this part of the article is about. We, this bill of law, are the truth in part of the Republic of Croatia that have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia, we deal with these issues, we edit voters' lists in one better quality, we introduce information technology, better quality and better way than before, we deal with the question of voting rights for those who have so far not, as it has been requested by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, it is good, the deadlines are resolved, the deadline is left for citizens to have insight into voters' lists, the issue of the state administration's office and the central state administration's central office in a way that perhaps this legal solution is better. But what's dangerous and what we think is not good is that we can't accept this final bill because of this very active registration. If the level of active registration is at the level of the idea of a correspondence vote, the level of ideas and the level of hope that something tomorrow will be better than what today cannot be stipulated by the legal text when it is not foreseen. What is predicted, though I doubt your intentions are bad on this matter. It is really necessary for the list to be settled, that only those who have the right to vote go to the vote and have their right to vote in the Republic of Croatia either for the elections for the parliament for the EU, the president of the Republic of Croatia, the local elections. We have to give everyone an equal vote. But this very active registration which, at the stage of the future idea, may have a question of correspondence, leaves a single legal gap and a strong doubt whether the proposed text of the law for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, voters, and especially those who have a residence outside the Republic of Croatia, is indeed a law that will allow every equal right to vote. We doubt that. We in this section express the fence of this text of the law and as such, and also because of our findings in the first reading. We have asked these questions about the active registration and the violation of the Constitution on the basis of this question. We have not received an adequate response and the HDSSB club in this form cannot support this final text of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25650	We have three replicas on your exhibit. Zoran Vinkovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25651	A colleague Salapic mentioned a compromise on the adoption of the Constitution in 2010 and indeed it was a compromise that was tied to the diaspora MPs who fell from those 12 to 3. But another compromise was valid among those compromises that HDZ and SDP agreed to at the time, until in one debate that called the right thing the right name was called up, then all the others called the HDZ's first representatives. I have to admit, someone was also talking about the new architecture of the state. It is, in fact, if you remember that constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, where a national minority sought legal personality, territorial structure and a special way of financing, so three basics of the creation of a state in the country. That's what you wanted back in the '90s, '91. Until '95. the years of aggression against the Republic of Croatia, by ethnic cleansing carried out by this large Serb policy, genocide, destruction of Croatian villages and cities. So this is what should have happened to the compromise of large parties and the adoption of a constitutional law on the rights of national minorities here in the Croatian Parliament until we called it the real name that it was the creation of a new SAO Krajina. And it was also a Mr. Salapic of compromise that should have practically changed the picture of Croatia as a Republic of Croatia, as a state and created a pair of states or a new state in the Republic of Croatia. Similar to the '74 Constitution. years of making it possible just...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25652	Thank you. We're not discussing the '74 Constitution. ... Replication response, colleague Salapic. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, he doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25653	My colleague Vinkovic, I would only say that all of our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, should be equal before our laws and the Constitution. The compromise was reached because of changes in the Constitution, not because of the European Union's demand in 2010 but because of that, we can then be happy that those three have remained in the Constitution because there was, and the minister himself said, he felt he shouldn't have any, so we were satisfied with three. And if the political picture of the election, if the election had been given another option in the diaspora, it would certainly have remained 11. The compromises were once necessary because of the higher interests of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately this compromise of the 2010 Constitution went to harm the Croatian people in BiH and we hope that some others, I hope, will personally, some others call the Parliament to change it and return to justice what the Croatian people in BiH deserve from the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25654	Replica, colleague Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25655	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So just yesterday's debate, I'm going to make one conclusion and I'm going to refer to what I heard for the first time that there was also an attempt to wipe out the possibility of even choosing representatives from the diaspora and BiH in the Croatian Parliament. Yesterday, the foundation was practically hit to pass this Law on the Registration of Voters today because everything that was to be designed in the structure compared to Article 45 and the amendment of the Constitution in 2010, so it was done yesterday, today it is one formality when practically the hands of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia will be raised. So it goes all the way in that direction and I hope it will come warmly one day when we will have a sufficient parliamentary majority and correct all these to say the crazy moves of this parliamentary majority in relation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and Croats from BiH. Because please, yesterday we had a heated argument and replicas and a fight over some fact that doesn't hold water. I don't know why we didn't all get up to replicate that Croatia did ethnic cleansing. So who chooses national minorities and representatives of Serbs in this House if Croatia has made ethnic cleansing towards Serbs. I'm asking you in which way they've been elected all this time to the Parliament. And the discriminatory provisions are therefore those exceptions in yesterday's law, today exceptions in the active registration for all elections in the Republic of Croatia, exceptions to all who have dual citizenship, which is practically obstructed in this House by any bilateral dual citizenship agreement between the Republic of Croatia and other countries. Please, it's unsustainable, it's unforgivable, and this law should put the relationship in place, and we still have time to do that for the I.D. Law, so all people with dual citizenship...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25656	Thank you very much. Time's up. ... Thank you very much, dear colleague. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, he doesn't understand.]] Your friend Filipovic is out of time. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, he doesn't understand.]] Please. We don't bring crazy ideas here, we don't have crazy ideas, we're discussing one law, and I'm asking you to discuss the law without too much emotion. No one takes away anyone's right to vote and no one discriminates against anyone. Col. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25657	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers, dear fellow Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25658	Excuse me, buddy. The answer to the replica was.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25659	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my wish to respond to the replica. I agree with you completely fellow, what in one part of the fear should not be, it is that the constitution guaranteed these three MPs and in 2010 we strongly folded it into the Constitution. I agree with you, you're emotionally talking about it because you're emotionally and emotionally, because you're coming from that neighborhood. It should never be forgotten that there would be no Croatian Parliament today, nor representatives in the Croatian Parliament, nor the European state of Croatia on July 1st that there was no diaspora, that there were no defenders who came from BiH, Croats who gave their lives for independence and freedom of Croatia. So that your emotional exposure and your emotional fear I share with you, and I believe that the new assembly of Parliaments will then know more about Croatians in the European Union than they appreciated at the time, today this assembly of Parliaments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25660	And now Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25661	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25662	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25663	Unfortunately, we cannot change the past, but we can change the future, and it should be realized that it is unfortunate that here in the 21st century today, given millions of Croats who live around the world in the Croatian Parliament do not sit representatives from every continent. I think we here in the Croatian Parliament could profit as well as the general public if the debates were attended by Croats from Argentina, Australia, North America. So I think I'm going to do it again and again probably many times, today for Croatia, the Croatian diaspora country from around the world is one of the largest and economic and demographic potentials, and I think that every message is crucial, and the choice is certainly that it wants to attract the Croatian diaspora not only to invest but also to return to the Republic of Croatia. I didn't miss the proposed budget for next year, if I remembered correctly, one thirty million kunas are scheduled for more money for the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, so I hope the new Government understands that, and that we will all change what I've been talking about together.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25664	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25665	Comrade Milosevic, I agree in that part with you that we should turn to the future. The past should not be forgotten, for our past is not so simple and easy. It stays in the heart. That's best understood by those who lost something in the Homeland War. But the future of Croatia without diaspora, without Croats living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, without the capital that our citizens have in various countries and countries, we will not go very well. We have hard times ahead of us. I believe that from 1 July we will stand firmly on the foundations of the European Croatia, and that some new elections for the Croatian Parliament should consider the changes that will contribute to the better economic, political position of any citizen of the Republic of Croatia no matter where he lives in Croatia or outside Croatia. We should all be equal because our homeland is one, the only one is the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25666	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25667	If we talk about confidence and how some solutions came about, I will only read the candidate's residences on the list that she received from the diaspora in the previous elections, which are Makarska, Zagreb, Osijek, Zagreb, Zagreb, Zivnica and Škabrnja. So, of these citizens, there was only one candidate on the list and seven citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia. As much as we want someone's voice to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25668	Here's my colleague Filipovic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25669	I have to react to this. It's suggested to those who go to the lists if they do, it would be good to have. If they don't have any reports of residence in the Republic of Croatia. So coming to the Croatian Parliament doesn't just mean saying good I'm from the diaspora. So here to start a working relationship. Without your ID card, you can't come to the pay list of the Croatian Parliament, you can't get health insurance, you can't get some basic rights, you can't talk about what the identity card as a document gives. You are now reading from which all environments elected representatives from the Croatian Parliament. So do you think you could start a working relationship here if someone came from Australia, from Canada, from Germany. Do you think he would work here and through the link of the debate here in the Croatian Parliament as the elected representative of the diaspora? Then that should be defined in a different way. You should not take a rubber and humiliate Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, take away their right of active registration so that they cannot have their ID card. In other words, they cannot invest, nor can they invest, nor can they build, nor can they work. So we said thank you gentlemen you don't need us. So in the most serious form, I resist such a single Croatian Parliament policy against Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25670	We're continuing the debate. The answer to the replica of Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25671	So, a Croatian citizen who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia is not a Croat outside the Republic of Croatia and that is all I have to say about this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25672	It should be recalled that we had colleagues here from the diaspora who lived in Canada, South America, and had no problems when they were elected. On behalf of the Croatian party of retired colleagues Željko Šemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25673	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear ministers, for your co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we completed a debate on a residence law that is one of the conditions for forming a register of voters. The Law on the register of voters lays down the content and manner of keeping a register that prescribes the establishment of a register of voters as a single electronic database of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have the right to vote and shall be kept in the register under official duty through three records – those citizens with permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia who have valid identity cards. Those Croatian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia, as well as records of citizens of EU Member States who exercise their right to vote in the Republic of Croatia. The data on addresses in the register of voters shall be based on the register of spatial units and shall also be based on the records of the permanent residence in the MUP, so as to enable the consistency of the data contained in both records. Thus, there will be no longer any possibility of more than 100 voters being enrolled at the same address if it is not a multi-story. The register of voters is run for every city, or municipality, and is run in settlements, streets and squares. The authorities of the state administration in the counties, i.e. the City of Zagreb, are also required to maintain the register of voters. They shall be responsible for entering the register of voters, for data repairs, for deleting persons and registering voters, and for making extracts from the list of voters. The contents of the voter records as well as the obligations of police administrations or stations, tax administrations, competent courts and home offices on data delivery are also prescribed. After the vote, citizens shall be given access to the data entered in the register of voters relating to the personal name and address of voters, and shall be given access to the competent offices until the database is closed, but with the supervision of the official. One of the news is the Institute of Active Registration for Croatian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia, who want to vote in the elections. In the first reading, this caused the most objections not only to representatives but also to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Since the promoter did not accept the remarks more in the diaspora, we will probably not have 450 thousand voters but only a number that is registered before each election. Such a procedure, with fewer voters, still eliminates the possibility of finding the deceased on the voters' list. But not all remarks were accepted. I am glad that my remarks have also been accepted and the Ombudsman's initiative for persons with disabilities related to business incapacitated persons and their voting rights. This is settled in Article 64, which stipulates that all persons who are subject to the Law on the Registration of Voters are deemed to have been fully deprived of their ability to vote and will be able to enter into the Voter Register and exercise their electoral right. In addition to introducing order in voters' lists, this law will affect the change in public perception of the failure of the voters' list to the greatest extent appropriate to the true state. Its application will likely reduce the number of voters from 4.1 million to a real number of 3.8 million voters. This solution to this law not only fulfills the election promise but has obtained a delicate instrument, a list of voters, who have so far cast a shadow and suspected the regularity of the elections in the Republic of Croatia. The HSU Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25674	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It's the SDSS Club and a colleague of Mile Horvat's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25675	I would like to thank Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. So it is more than obvious that the election campaign has started, that the pre-election activities have started and that the local elections are very close to us. Why would I say that? In addition to these activities carried out by the ministry in order to take advantage of the last moment of the legislative period and to change all the important electoral legislation in the package before the year of the election, which is a constitutional provision, we see that today and yesterday and the previous days in parliamentary debates per tonne, intonation, by rhetoric, according to the purpose of certain discussions, the election campaign has taken place. And it's good that the ministry is going into this business to regulate better pre-election activities with this set of electoral laws the way we're discussing today. But it is not good for all pre-election activities to start before each election cycle with a sharp rhetoric over the majority people and members of the Serb national minority. It's not good, but it's definitely a feature almost every pre-election cycle these years. So this is the second reading and finally reading before the adoption of the Law on Election Registration. We are fully aware that this law had to be passed, so order should be introduced into the voter lists. That's what we both said in our discussions and out of the debate. Because if due to the unsettled voter lists, it is doubtful the credibility of certain electoral mandates, then it is in no one's best interest and not even in our best interests. We think the ministry has had a good job of presenting to us here, that is, creating a model that would satisfy all of our, all of our visions and satisfy all of our observations. Did it work? I don't know. I mean, it's perfectly normal to expect it to fail completely. We had in the first reading of certain remarks, some remarks were accepted, most were not accepted with the explanation that we received for some pragmatic reasons might satisfy us. But what matters to us in this whole thing is a model. So, colleagues said the methods of implementing this model. We built a model here, the methods of implementing this model are something we insist on. So, whether there will be the will of the social community to take these elections seriously, whether all individuals in this series of events and tasks and responsibilities from the smallest polling place in the country to consulates abroad or so on whether they will all do their job as correctly and professionally as they are supposed to, and experience suggests that this was not the case in all previous elections, simply to remove certain suspicions of some evil intentions in some polling places. So that's what we're saying is that it's a very important thing for us to implement and realize this model. In the previous discussion, we said that the residence is a preliminary issue for this legal solution ahead of us. So, according to us, the residence, and in the previous model was a permanent residence, it determines the quality of the consumption of the voting rights of certain groups of citizens. And that's the thing that's very important to us. So whoever doesn't have a residence in the Republic of Croatia according to this model is referred to an active registration. And that's mostly what we're talking about today in the most part and we're discussing it. We tried yesterday to discuss the residence as clearly as possible to define the concept of residence itself, not out of some diabolical intention of putting someone in the category of privileged subscriptions with some double rights, some other gains, etc., but simply to protect a category called the category of citizens who are still in the status of return. Coming back is one complex thing. Returning is not just a restored house and electricity connection. Returning is essential but also qualitative in the lives of people who return to a complex process. Thus, to protect these people from the fact that they can at the end of their lives not be able to have a place of residence where they were born. We pulled up that debate yesterday. And we think that, therefore, we have said about this law of residence which is the basis of this law that we are discussing today, which is why I'm talking about it. We said about this residence law that this law alone will lead to the removal from the residence or residence of a specific category of people. Some call it a discriminatory qualification, I won't be so keenly qualified but I'm afraid I'm right when I talk about what the consequences will be. And the other thing we were talking about is that this model needs to be done. He's even too long, so it's too long for that justice to erase your residence so a solution, so going out on the ground, checking, solution, administrative procedure is a thing that lasts. And that justice will be for some individuals very long and very painful. So when we talked about that thing, in that debate yesterday we were not understood the way we thought we would be understood. We are afraid that when we talk and discuss this law, we are not at the same time in the first debate because we have said that active registration will be a major obstacle to going to elections, so to consume their electoral rights and citizens who are in the diaspora but also this category of people who are in the status of returnees. That's what we were saying. The great obstacle will be, from experience I say the number of small consular offices, the great obstacle will be their distance, the experience tells us, I said it last time and I will repeat it. So, in the last parliamentary elections through consular representations for the 12th electoral unit, for members, only 400 people voted for representatives of the Serb national minority in two days, out of disinterest and mostly the facts of the consular representations. Technically, humanely speaking, and that's how it's likely to be now. This is a big job, recording so many voters every time, and even before the re-elections will be a narrow throat. Can we handle this by law? I don't know, it's up to the Proposer to find a model of how to make that bottleneck in a way more flowable, there's a major obstacle and a financial obligation for citizens outside the Republic of Croatia to register before each election. So here this model for fine middle-sighted citizens, voters who can sit in the car, go a couple of hundred miles, sign up ten days before the elections, then go back a few hundred miles to give their vote, express their civic duties, and so on and so on and before the re-elections. I speak here on behalf of the population of citizens who do not have this financial opportunity at the edge of life's existence because they still live in some refugee camps after 15 or more years under every level of human dignity. In any case, the conclusion is, that's what we said last time and we think and now that with this model that's made out of honest intent, so we respect all the intensities of the ministry, all the needs, the factual state, but definitely it's written in a way that will lead to a decline of interest in voting outside the Republic of Croatia. In any vote, the interest in voting will definitely drop in this way and we will make these elections increasingly difficult and uninteresting for that category of citizens. It's especially a question of how it's going to be used, so-called. the extract from the list for national minorities. We think that apart from being defined in the article text as it is in a technical sense, that is, that national minorities should work not to feel uncomfortable at a particular polling post because they are looking for a special ballot, that is, to create such an atmosphere in polling stations, to educate individual election committee presidents not to get into a situation where someone feels uneasy, discriminated against if he wanted to express his civic commitment. Therefore, some broader context, the social context should be to create a climate that taking a minority ticket is as valuable a civic obligation to go to elections as taking a majority ballot. So that's one problem so a social one that I don't say hospitalization before the election and we have to work on it. All in all, this law is not ideal for us, but it is now extremely important because it is the basis for local elections and we all have an interest in making choices of quality and quality, local elections that are 19. 05th Predetermined. He will certainly experience some adjustments in practice, but it will be the mandate of some future time. So, in addition to what we have said and pointed out as remarks, we are fully aware that this set of regulations must be adopted in order for elections to be held. And in the end for the public and for the fact that he's constantly manipulating what's called the so-called. Buses, I have a need here to say first, so all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who came to the bus to vote both for parliamentary elections and for local elections are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and have valid documents based on which they entered the Republic of Croatia, were in the Republic of Croatia for a few days and used their voting rights. So it's not about illegals, it's not about people without documents. That's the first thing. Another thing, let's write it down and remove any doubt. So in past parliamentary elections outside the Republic of Croatia voted in consulates of 400 people. It came to the Republic of Croatia about 20 buses in parliamentary elections. Calculate with an average of 40 people plus a road leader, which is the number of these voters, which is a dangerous number of these voters, so 20 buses. In the 2009 local elections, about three thousand people who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia entered the territory of the Republic of Croatia and returned to their local self-government to vote because they expect a return, because they have documents based in the local self-government and consider their civic obligation to participate in the country's political life because they are thinking of returning to the moment when society creates assumptions. I had to say this because of the fact that there's always talk of famous buses as some kind of dangerous thing on the political scene of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25676	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25677	Honored Madam Vice President. My colleague specifically said that a pre-election campaign had started and that rhetoric was the way it is, and I agree with that. But I'd like to say the following is my replica in the sense that this rhetoric is not good with the fit of a fellow bud that isn't here. I'm sorry he's not here. I'm not the one telling the man behind his back. It's not good. I don't think he's just an SDSS representative of the Serbian people. I, as a representative in the Parliament, am also considered a representative of the Serb people and representative of Serbian interests in this House, why not? I think the Serbian people need a smile back in Croatia. How are we going to bring him back to smile? I've never seen him smile in Parliament or in the hallway or in the cafe. ... I didn't say anything wrong. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] The rhetoric is such that it is not good that it is also in the interest of the election campaign that Mr. Pupovac deepens the gap between the Serbian national minority and the Croatian people. It is the meaning of my replica, rather than acting on the line to tell Serbs this is your country, here the sun and you warms you, they need to be able to make material resources to create companies, businesses, to better live to develop their municipal infrastructure and to work together. And not in any way this rhetoric pre-election that the SDSS would get 100 or 5,000 more votes and so some places that in some way the atmosphere and climate are re-generating that the Serbs are told you are being persecuted here, you are being ethnically clean here. So how are we gonna fight here for a thousand years next? I think the representatives of the SDSS should think primarily of Mr. Pupovac, and here I would like to make arrangements with Mr. Horvat in 24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25678	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica of my colleague Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25679	So first of all, I wouldn't be talking about Professor Marasović. A belly button because it's not here. That's incorrect, that's what you tell him when he's here so he can answer you. He is a respected university professor who, in this Croatian Assembly, has many times taken an oath or oath to the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Constitution, has confirmed his democratic principles and democratic views many times in practice, so he has had discussions in his discussions that remain here, not in terms of phonograms but in terms of his weight. As a party, we don't need to go to elections the way you want to say it. So we don't go to elections in a way that strengthens relations with the majority people, and we don't need those kinds of votes. We simply try every time in our debate to articulate a group of problems that has not ended for 20 years. So there's no end to a group of serious problems, and we're not gonna end the return procedure if we keep this up for another ten years. And I remind you, the very thing we're talking about was the main prerequisite of one of the main preconditions for obtaining certain positive opinions in the process of completing European negotiations. And we expected that thing to be set up like that. And that's why Mr. Pupovac's speech keeps coming back to that fact, the fact of unfinished stuff, unfinished business. It's not in the sense of our election campaign because we don't need it. We have our own electoral body that trusts us and that we say nothing that will vote for us. We are here to represent the interests of a very sensitive civilian population.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25680	Thank you very much. Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25681	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In his presentation, counterpart Horvat said that there was actually a decline of interest in the vote of those who are in the status of returnees. I think it is, in fact, the intensity of this law to drop that interest with those who are in the status of return, not only those you mentioned but also the evicted Croatia who left Croatia for business or for economic or political reasons, it is in some way or at least in the hope of return status, and with this law they are also prevented from acquiring at least, ensuring this elemental right, the first right to vote in order to create both the mood and the conditions for this return to be as good as possible. And in this sense, instead of going after a principled solution that will be equally for all Croatian citizens, we are doing this divide here so that we do not actually see how undemocratic and discriminatory this law is in its consequences for a number of categories of Croatian citizens, and it is hiding behind a law that is supposed to be supposed to be democratic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25682	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25683	Thank you. Dear counterpart Tudjman, so I mentioned in my debate that there is one legitimate fear that this legal solution will lead to the decline of a group of Croatian citizens, so I also mentioned the diaspora. I didn't do it, but I think I mentioned it because we think they're really going to be treated. Is the intention to make that happen? I don't think so. I can't say it's about intent. I think it's the opposite. I think it's the intention of finding a correct and efficient model to resuscitate all of these things we're talking about. The second question is whether for this election cycle the model that is new and which, as every new model, will have to pass some practical grinding, will it satisfy all of our interests that we have talked about. But I don't think there was a legislator's intention or the legislator's intention to deliberately lead to a decline in interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25684	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25685	Comrade Horvath, you said you were misunderstood yesterday. I think I understood your president's words well when he accused us of ethnic cleansing and other things for hypocrisy, etc., and the fact is that all Croatian citizens should be equal to both the Constitution and all Croatian laws. And I see no reason why a group of Croatian citizens who are covered by the programme of reconstruction and housing are separated from the Housing Act. And the fact is that you were once misunderstood in this House, you should have been understood by the SDP and the HDZ when that Constitutional Law on National Minorities was sought, when you sought legal personality, territorial structure and a special way of financing. Unfortunately, you failed as a political option in the Republic of Croatia because someone recognized those intentions. It was neither HDZ nor SDP but precisely the HDSSB calling it the real name, SAO Krajina. And as for the votes from the diaspora, here are the gentlemen here statements and pictures of the prime minister, current Prime Minister Milanovic and former Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, who says that all Croats received the deal,... now they pour ash on me from HDZ and ask for 12 representatives from the diaspora. So you made a deal with the SDP, they were looking for zero, you were looking for 12, so you found yourself who on market at 3 and now we're selling fog to those people. Well, that's not how it goes. On the other hand, the current foreign minister said it was better than stealing votes because she also asked for zero. Let's tell the truth to the Croatian people wherever they are and wherever they live, and that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25686	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25687	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. So, colleague Vinkovic, I'll try to answer two things for you. You asked me two things here. First, we are absolutely in favour of everyone being equal in this law, which is why we talked yesterday not in tone, but in essence as we talked. Rehabilitation and housing are not completed, so to get someone back physically, to live I say in the Chistans, I can say something else, in order to enter into the system or to carry out his housing control, in order to make a solution to the residence he must be physically there. Can't people who don't have completed their return, rebuilding, returning apartments physically be there and meet the basic condition to get a place of residence. You know that because it's a rational thing, it's not a political thing. The second thing, let's talk and finally say, the Erdutic Agreement is a product of a common council of municipalities as a local self-government. The international document was celebrated in 2010 for 15 years in the Erdut Agreement, the 15-year celebration of the elements of all that stem from the Erdut Agreement, even the formation of a joint council of municipalities as local minority self-government, cultural, not political. At that time, Mr. Josipovic, Mrs. Kosor, President of Parliament Leco, US Ambassador Mr. Peter, was present, I do not see what is controversial. It's the only thing that matters to you. It's not a territorial structure, it's just, we're looking for a legal personality, it can't be a common council of municipalities derived from an international document as well as a fishing society of equal quality. We asked him to be a sui generis and to have his funding defined in the budget, not to have moths and every time be a matter of political settlement. That's not good, you lose the essence of local self-government given to the Erdut Agreement. And let me tell you something else, both Osijek County and Vukovar County took part and participated in the financing of this joint council of municipalities. Why would you do that if it's paramount?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25688	The next replica and respected representative Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25689	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Well, here I would like to say, first of all, the right to vote and to participate in the elections gives us, among other things, the right to come out of the rights that we have through the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. Nationality of the Republic of Croatia gives certain rights, such as voting rights, etc. But it also gives certain obligations. Let's say payment of municipal compensation, contributions, payment of certain other bills of directorial water, electricity, etc., taxes at the end of the day. And it seems that, especially in the context of Serbian counterpart Horvat is in this second part of the obligation. So it can be taken, it can be charged by Serbs for property and municipal contributions and municipal fees and all these taxes that I mentioned or did not mention. But they need to be deprived of certain rights, or they should not be granted the right. From one group we hear it from more groups in this Croatian Parliament. So, right on back. Does everyone have the right to return? This is what we have established by certain laws I think that most of this Croatian Parliament is Croatia in one civilization trying to solve this issue that has been resolved for many years, and it is still not resolved in the end. The right to your property, and ultimately the normal right to vote. Right to the choice of one we want to lead. I will remind my colleagues from the HDSSB that in the Šodolovac municipality near Djakov, the president of the municipal council is from the HDSB. It is pluralism, although the municipality is mostly Serbian. And I'd like to say one more thing in the end, I think, as far as ethnicity is concerned. As far as the council is concerned. Here and let me go over a little time because I'm also the president of a common council of those who don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25690	The same Rules of Procedure apply to you as well as to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25691	Okay. As far as the Erdut Agreement is concerned, my colleague said, I'll just quote. This is found in Article 12. The Erdutic Agreement was signed by the Republic of Croatia, and another thing Mr. Glavas recognized when he appointed Mr. Horvat's mayor because he had to appoint them because they were international bilateral obligations and the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25692	Thank you very much. You'll get a second chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25693	So, Mr. Glavas has admitted his right, and as far as territorial... Yes, it is. [[Intruder Vinkovic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25694	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your suggestions. Let's go to the next line and honorary representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25695	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Horvat, the right to defend the rights of the Serb national minority in Croatia, of course, is your main task in that I support. And I think we all support this Croatian Parliament, because national minorities in every country are the treasures of that country. However, your second task should also be to defend part of the right of the national minority, or Croats as national minorities in the Republic of Serbia. Because if we put it in some reciprocity, then you would see what rights the Serb minority in the Republic of Croatia has in relation to the Croatian minority in the Republic of Serbia. It's just not quantifiable today. It is not also measurable, and it is not good, for example, that the current government sends a Croatian citizen of the Serb national minority as a consul in Subotica to Croatian citizens. It would be as if the Republic of Serbia puts a Croatian from Vojvodina as a Serbian consul in Vukovar, and I believe you don't think that's good. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25696	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25697	My colleague, you've opened one very interesting question, two interesting questions. So our relationship as members of the Serb national minority with members of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia. Another question to discuss then is the position of Croats in the Republic of Serbia. I will not speak of the situation of the Croats because I am not qualified to say it. There are institutions, there are political parties in front of the Croatian community in the Republic of Serbia, so let them talk about it. What I'm saying is we have permanent and permanent contacts with representatives of the duchy Croats, we meet, we talk. President Petar Kuntic is our private and political thinker and friend and acquaintance and we maintain this kind of co-operation, convey our experiences from this assembly, from this parliamentary life, from the legislative sphere and try to educate them in this sense how to reach our level of rights as a national minority. So these are things to talk about, but here's to knowing that this relationship and that connection exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25698	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Now it's the National Minority Club. I'm sorry, they didn't leave it in here for me. But there's no reason why we shouldn't trust you. Here you go, dear representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25699	Thank you, Mr. President. I mean, it really was a replica. So, dear colleague Horvat. Your bus findings aren't dangerous buses. I agree. It is not a danger in buses, it is in a discriminatory relationship between these laws and yesterday's and today's laws, compared to Croatian citizens of Croatian nationalities who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in other countries with regard to Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality living in the Republic of Serbia. These laws favour Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality in terms of living in the Republic of Serbia, compared to Croatian citizens of Croatian nationality living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If Croatian citizens of the Croatian nationality in Bosnia and Herzegovina can achieve their constitutional right to vote only by going to consular representations then if we want to be equal then the Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality in the Republic of Serbia should do the same thing by not arriving by buses, because tomorrow someone will remember that if it is a worse time for charter flights to be provided for them and pay for Croatia's arrival than for the same consular representations in Serbia, so let them vote and decide in the same way that Croatian nationalities outside the Republic decide on who will rule in Croatia. That's the danger of these laws, not on buses. That's not what we talked about. And I've still got time to tell you about the community council. The common council is designed as cultural autonomy, not political autonomy, and do not compare it with the fishing society because members of the fishing society did not shoot at the Republic of Croatia as opposed to many members of the common council who destroyed the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25700	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25701	So that's where we should replicate it again in a way that creates tensions, I don't mean to create them. I'm not going to create them, and I'm going to try to answer what's being said specifically. The law does not discriminate against anyone, or favour Serbs over diaspora. When it came to the arrival of the so-called so-called. The bus was about people who came to their constituency to exercise their civil rights because they are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and because they have valid documents that enable them and prove their status as citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They've come to vote in the local elections. When they have to vote in the Municipality of Gračac, in the Municipality of Korenica because they are from there, because they have a residence there, because that is what the documents say and because they are on these electoral lists and because it is their obligation to vote. There's no charter flights. We don't have the money to pay for it. You don't have to caricate it. So, there were organized buses, but 50% of them just went to the polls. That's what to say. 50% went to visit graves, relatives in those two days and failed to fulfil their obligation. And I don't think this is favoring any of the voters of the Serb community, they just have their own special status that we fight for, and no one forbids you or prevents you from fighting for the status of a particular group that you think you have an interest in. I respect that, and I will always respect that kind of political dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25702	Thank you very much. The honorable minister of the administration Arsen Bauk reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25703	Mr. President, seeing the passion with which MP Vinkovic speaks about constitutional changes and the HDSSB's commitment, I would like to say the following. Constitutional changes were made in June 2010, Mr Vinkovic was then a member of the SDP, exited the SDP in October 2010 and entered the HDSSB in April 2011. At the time of the constitutional changes, you were a member of the SDP club, let's just say it. If you want HDSSB to counter-date your access card and there's no problem, but I don't think it can be retroactively entered into the political party. And the constitutional provision on the joint council of municipalities was then responded by the representative, and today the foreign minister, Mrs Vesna Pusic, supported by the SDP club that you were a member and finally proposed on behalf of the ruling majority Mr Pupovac that this should come out of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities, and the Parliament concluded that it should be resolved in a different way to finance the joint council of municipalities. Therefore, so much for the historical truth given the number of times you have reported to be talking about the HDSSB club, let at least those who were then at the HDSSB club talk about it and not you, or at least not on their own behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25704	Dear Ministers, for this brief exposure, you've received two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Dragan Montenegro. Here you go. ... You got it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first is Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25705	Dear counterpart, former party counterpart Zoran Vinkovic did not then vote for constitutional changes as he did not vote for that ridiculous agreement with Slovenia. Since there are therefore cameras here and all of this is recorded, Mrs Pusic talked about the new architecture of the state. Zoran Vinkovic was talking about the SAO Krajina. I know that many and then in the SDP, and even at the counsel club, they didn't like it. Also, Vinkovic did not vote for ZERP and a number of other things, even in the meantime when someone was in pain with groins, etc. And as far as legal personality is concerned, so can counterpart Furio Radin had a similar amendment to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. A similar, very similar amendment to the SDSS, which practically meant the legal personality of the territorial structure and a special way of financing that had nothing to do with the Erdut Agreement. And when I mentioned the '74 Constitution. Well, now it's clear to the Serbian Prime Minister that there was no Constitution of '74. would not say they have nothing left to lose because they lost both Kosovo and Vojvodina and I don't know what. Well, he'll lose himself. So much for the credibility of what you said. And for the sake of historical fact, let's look at this session of Parliament together. The first to seek a break on behalf of the club because you have agreed everything with HDZ, SDP and HDZ to allegedly join the EU. That was the deal, and I was against that deal. Because that deal brought this. Three representatives of the Croatian diaspora. So much for credibility. Let's go through it together, and I'll invite all the journalists to go through the recording of that session of the Parliament together and see who's right, Minister Bauk or Agent Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25706	Thank you very much. You've said everything. Replication response, Honored Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25707	I only made the dates I found online because thank God it's available. So the Constitution was changed to 6. In 2010, you left the SDP at 10. In 2010, you entered the HDSSB in the 4th month 2011 if you said so, you did not speak on behalf of the HDSSB Club and you are always talking about the HDSSB club. No, then you spoke as a member of the SDP club, we were quite broad to that, but there is something that is true. You were the only representative who voted against Luke Bebic's election as Parliament Speaker in the first session. You immediately made it clear that your parliamentary mandate would be special, that it would end as it ended. It is we who are your party colleagues, who have long known you quite well and it is true that you have functioned as an independent representative even though you were a member of the club. And that's kind of leprosy, and that's why your political image is, and ultimately, to go to elections, you get or don't get votes because the values that you're up for today and on the issues of the rights of same-sex communities and on the issue of the rights of national minorities differ deeply from what the basic values of SDP are, and I just want to say, that, absolutely and to me, very logically, that you ended up where you ended up no matter where you entered the SDP club in the elections in 2007 where the poster was decided on Croatia. So much for the credibility of the diaspora vote and you were under that poster and advocated this programme 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25708	Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25709	Article 216 has been injured. This is an insult to the MPs, you should give a warning to Mr. Secretary. I had my own poster in those elections in 2007, so Milanovic and Dragovan and the others rebelled, If you remember that, and I've never supported it, or will support homosexual communities, RGBT, and I don't know what communities. [[You said what it was, about the injury, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25710	There's no discussion regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Your Honor, you deserve me to defend you don't... [[Speaker not enabled]] Mr. Vinkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] Thank you very much. I think the counsel has earned a more subtle relationship. Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative Dragan Montenegrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25711	Here's what seems to be a debate that comes and is mentioned by Serbs, probably to go, and we are to defend that position even though the Republic of Croatia has assumed certain obligations at a certain point when most of us were probably not politically active here in '95, '96. 97. etc. I would only try one word to tell the Minister here, because he said that at that time the Croatian Parliament voted or made a decision and obliged the Government to resolve the financing of the common council of the municipality as it is. But the other thing is the registration or legal personality that happened here today, I don't know how many times it's repeated yesterday. So, the problem is that he had power and HDZ when she had most and now the SDP, the problem of registration or legal personality, and they both know that the joint council of the municipality cannot be registered under the Association Act as it has so far. We're not looking for any new territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia or... etc. It's all written in public documents here. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] The problem is that there is a council of certain powers that cannot be registered, can't be within the Association Act and we try to solve it all the time and that's the problem. We have proposed to amend and supplement the Constitutional Law since the Erdutic Agreement is said to be a bilateral agreement. We wanted to resolve these matters within the Constitutional Law when they were amended and completed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. But it didn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25712	Your Honor, don't disturb the other MPs. Let him talk. Here you are, Your Honor, telling me what you're up to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25713	Yes, and I am, so at the end of the point, it was that people who talk about it the most, were in the common council of municipalities, we agree on some things, and when it comes to saying so, the media in the Croatian Parliament are trying to create some political points and it's not right. And I beg you, Mr. President, when it comes to finding that council members were shot, killed, etc. to react at that moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25714	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25715	Mr. President, the agenda item is called : The final draft law on voter registration. And how complex the subject is shows how little the debate has spread. As regards therefore the joint council of the municipality, first of all, I would like to say that Croatia's reintegration is one of the great successes of the Croatian government and Croatian president's policies at that time. Franje Tudjman and representatives of the Serb community in the occupied area that part of the Republic of Croatia was returned to the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia, avoiding many victims, destruction and anything else that would bear a different way of returning territory to the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And what a country has committed to respecting that. As far as the legal framework of the common council of municipalities is concerned, if it is currently registered as under the Law on Associations, if in the amendments to the Law on Associations we can find a form by which it would not be the way it was done when it was done, and then you cannot enter the amendments because your statute is not, so you know what it is. So we'll try to solve this in one regular way and as far as political and other connotations of raw passion are concerned, unfortunately, you won't be able to avoid it for a while. Unfortunately, I also say to answer Mr. Marasovic if, I apologize, so who spoke of the right of the Croats One of the first meetings after the generals' verdict was a meeting in Zagreb between representatives of the Serb minority in Croatia and the Croatian minority in Serbia to work to calm down some tensions that the verdict caused. [[Intruder: End up on this replica, respected ministers, you will be given the opportunity as a proposing representative to talk about things that are one of these.]] I therefore believe that colleagues from the SDSS know what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25716	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25717	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, you have now said you need to return the debates in the framework of the topic we are discussing today, which is the Law on the register of voters who are also connected to yesterday's House Act. And precisely because we have objections to certain provisions and to that law and today's law, here's what might be more pronounced in the argument. It is not disputed that we defend the right of every Croatian HDSB representative club to defend the right of every Croatian citizen regardless of his nationality to consume any constitutional right and thus the right to vote but on equal terms. Croatian citizens of one nationality cannot be favored in relation to Croatian citizens of other nationalities in this case of the majority Croatian people for no reason. So there would be no problem with these laws because even many objections were accepted between the first and second readings, and it is to welcome that article 12, paragraph 5, which gave the right to Croatian citizens of Serbian nationalities living in the Republic of Serbia is a different right and the possibility to consume voting rights compared to all other Croatian citizens in this case stories of Croatian nationalities living outside the Republic of Serbia. And there's no dispute, everything would've been fine if it hadn't been for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25718	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25719	So in your replica, if I understand you were talking about the residence law that was yesterday. But whatever the law on residence the Law on the register of voters will be very similar because it actually goes out of residence records. So regardless of these solutions, these solutions can't be very different, you probably agree. Now I can tell you about the Law of Residence and I'll do it because I still have time. Every Croatian citizen living in Croatia should have a residence in Croatia. If someone is not able to live where his house is in the war because of the destruction of his house, he needs to be done as soon as possible if it is a government obligation. Until then, there is a certain exception. When the house is made no longer has the right to an exception, and if one day he wants to come back and live in Croatia he is welcome, he has his own house to live there. And if she doesn't, I'd love to live in Croatia, but where each of the people choose their place of life. I'm surprised, by the way, that someone next to a beautiful country like this needs to live out there, but that's another thing now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25720	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas, we're going to have a debate with the representatives' clubs. Now it is finally the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and Honored Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25721	Thank you, Mr. President. The law on the register of voters as the basis for the list of voters should give rise to one debate on one technical law. Obviously, it's not like that here, and obviously there's a reason why it's not like that in this House. Whenever it comes to the topic that is close to the elections in this House, there has always been controversy and there have always been ideological differences and there have also been attacks against national minorities. I could say now and I'll speak technically to show that I'm different from the others, but I'm no different from the others. I will contribute to this politicization of this debate and, first of all, I will thank Mr. Minister and for the effort he made in this bill. There are a lot of newspapers here that are good, some in our opinion aren't good yet, so we're going to suggest how to do them, but there's certainly a good will to finally enter a row in one segment of the electoral legislation. Of course, that is not the order that we could all expect in the 20th century when in some countries of northern Europe it is voted online. So what does it mean to vote online? So all these problems were absolutely solved and entered the program into software and there's no more voting problems. In some other countries, part of the election is conducted online, which means it's also arranged countries. The countries of southern Europe by definition are not as arranged as the countries of northern Europe, and some time after that debate on such a normal topic as should be a register of voters and a list of voters, of course, this is actually turning into a debate about the 19th century and what was happening to this or that part of the Croatian Corps to say, political Croats, as some want to emphasize, and all of those citizens who live in Croatia and the citizens of Croatia. I'd like to say one thing. It is said here that constitutional law has also favored them, that they have tried to favour certain groups. I say that the shame of constitutional law was not actually in the adoption of a constitutional law which was both honorable and good but was in everything that happened later, and later it happened that 4 months before the election actually changed election rules for representatives of national minorities. I want to point out here that no one but the minority has responded to that. This is what I want and not only in this House but in general in society and in civil society no one has found themselves, almost no one has found themselves on our side to say 4 months before the elections against the Constitution have changed election rules. Let it remain on the conscience of all those who have not responded. You know what I'm saying is true. Unquestionably, what was changed and unquestionable about what was the constitutional law. About whether minorities are favored I often emphasize one piece of information, I will emphasize it here and here, and with that I will end this little controversy that I had, which of course dates not back to the 19th century, but surely in the 20th century, I will contribute to the means of politicization and I will say the following. About how many minorities are favored shows data that since '45. To date, the census includes a million members of national minorities, only if the Italians, Germans and Serbs are taken into account. Call it what you want, but it's true. I haven't added another minority, but a million members of national minorities are missing from the census. We're not gonna qualify that, so let everyone qualify as they please. And with that I end my debate about who's favored and who's damaged here. The Croats outside the country were also damaged. I agree with what Professor Tudjman said before, a million and 180 thousand citizenship was assigned in the '90s, it's a lot of citizenship. A certain number of people in the world, we cannot know how much data and today thinks of ourselves as Croatian citizens, others perhaps, some others have forgotten that, but I think most of them consider it. Today, when we are unfortunately speaking against it, because you cannot represent the rights of national minorities without giving your solidarity to Croats outside the country in the same package. That's my opinion on how to do it, and that's what I agree with, Mr. Babic, I think, those who have put two groups in relation. I agree, they are not in relation, they are citizens of Croatia and others are out of country but they are in relation because psychologically it is put in relation. I understand that and I accept it. It was never clear to me why the number of Croatian MPs outside the country must be smaller than the number of votes they normally have. The number of votes should be about five or six, and the constitution has three. That's what you agreed, I don't think it was something that the parties involved in the agreement had to be proud of. But that's the deal. Now that there are three MPs under the Constitution of Croats outside the country, when there are three, let's contribute to being democratically elected, and how they will be democratically elected, so that more people vote for them. And how they'll vote more people for them if not by correspondence. All these problems will disappear if they are voted by letter. It will not increase or decrease their number, but all those who otherwise cannot reach the consulate and all those who have a need for it will be able to vote, and they do not have the option. And now we come to an amendment adopted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and the National Minorities Club supports it. It's about being anonymous. Before, Mr. Horvat spoke of anonymity having to be guaranteed, that no one should have any trouble voting, but I believe that before any of the problems anyone can have because they are said or because he has to say that he is Serbian or that he is Italian or that Hungarian is certainly an important problem how many people will come to vote. Democracy also depends on the number of people who will vote. Democracy also depends on whether all are allowed in the same way to vote. So before anonymity is important, it is also important that every minority is allowed to vote in as large a number as possible. That is why we believe that the solution, Mr. Minister, which you have chosen in agreement with the DIP, is written in your proposal and that they will all be on the same list and will then be almost left to the board of this election committee, to the people who must choose there, who must be careful in the way they are voted to be left to them in order to address the national minority. We believe the old solution must be kept. The solution that remains in the law now means that for members of the national minority in the Republic of Croatia who have the right to represent themselves in the Croatian Parliament and the right to have every polling post actually produced an excerpt based on nationality. So, not to be on the same list of voters, but to be on special lists so far. Because that very act of seeking out a certain voter of national minorities gives us the guarantee that he will be offered both solutions. It means that it votes for political parties, for example in political elections or to vote for representatives of national minorities. Only in this way and in that order will it be possible, because otherwise we will leave it to the Election Commission and it will not be clear how they behave, and they certainly will. So we support this amendment that was otherwise adopted on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities as a club of national minorities. Finally, I would like to commend the applicant for accepting the Ombudsman's proposal for persons with disabilities related to persons with disabilities and their right to vote. In the text of the final proposal for a law on the register of voters, paragraph 4 of Article 14 and in Article 17(1), the words are deleted: "These persons who have been deprived of voting law by a decision of power." It has also been amended in Article 64 and it is prescribed that all persons who are subject to the Law on the register of voters should be regarded by a powerful decision of the competent court in fully deprived business capacity as voters. And that's, of course, good. What is not good and that remains that system that has been repeated here for 20 years and that is that, for example, people who may be representatives don't even know it, but people who are in the hospital, for example, who don't have the opportunity to get to the polling post can't vote. I was in the election as an observer at the election in Ukraine and the first polling post our delegation fell into was right at the hospital. There was an election site in the hospital, as this allows at least one number of patients who are mobile or who are mobile with the help of someone to vote. Here you must know that a patient, for example, breaks a hip and is in a hospital and cannot reach a polling station. He was deprived of actually the right to vote. I think it's against constitutionality, and I think that kind of thing is actually pre-constitutional matter rather than the matter of one law. Here in the List Act, you can't tell about the voters' register. But the way to change the voter list, the way to include someone in the voters' list, is that it means in the final act of the voters' list is one that does not allow a person who does not allow the person who is in the hospital to vote. How many people I don't know, but the fact that there are certainly a large number of people who, at some point, are citizens of Croatia, who are citizens, citizens, who are not deprived of any business ability to vote. That's right. Yeah. It is if, if there is a possibility that timely reporting and timely information can be made, that someone should come home to someone who can't, who is sick at home, and that he can vote at home, then it must be organised in hospitals. There's no reason there's no headquarters in hospitals to be organized. that patients can vote. [[Invader President: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25722	Is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25723	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But otherwise, the National Minority Representatives Club supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25724	Thanks for that, too. 5 replicas have been reported regardless of whether you support or support or do not support your exposure. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25725	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Radin. I have two elements in your presentation that have seemed relevant to me in view of today's topic and the debate. The first one is you mentioned that there is an Internet vote in organised democracies. I agree with you, it is very good and so it would, probably in the future it will be so in Croatia. However, today in 2012, this Proposal for a Law on Election Register when it comes to the introduction of an active registration institute of voters not to see the Internet, but it is seen that it has been written by people who have not spent a second or a minute of work in any diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Croatia. When we require the personal arrival of Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in Croatia to be actively registered, and already exist in the register of voters in that embassy or consular office. You spend two trips from 10 km to 1000 km on them. If Minister Bauk knew the consequences of this leaving to Croatian citizens who are happy to have a passport, happy many would have a residence here and documents that invest in Croatia, which come here with a heart and a grill in their eyes and you, with such an institute, give them a double job and a double cost. Imagine the situation that we have in turn elections for the European Parliament, a referendum on some topic, elections for the Croatian Parliament, elections for the president theoretically within 6 months, you can make people cross you to tens of thousands of kilometers. I mean not that it's not normal, it's not polite, it's not logical. What's gonna be the next step? Let's cancel the diaspora vote. There's no dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25726	Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25727	Well, of course, there's a solution to that. More than the active register of voters, there should actually be something called the registry of Croatian citizens outside the country. A complete register that would allow then to be voted from abroad. I repeat, I'll say mine, I'll file my case. I, as you know, have Italian citizenship and as an Italian citizen and voter, vote in writing for the Italian Parliament, for the European Parliament and for the regional elections. For local elections alone, I have to go vote on the spot. So there are possibilities, there are methods to vote in writing, and I would strongly recommend it because these are certain ways of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25728	The next replica and respected representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25729	Thank you very much, President. In one sentence, Radin mentioned the favouring of certain minorities, if I have registered it well, he still did not quite work out this favourization and I think favoring it can also have a political meaning and in a political sense what has been discussed here for a very long time and it is a sensitive problem, otherwise it is discussed for a long time, or favouring it through such a way that I can be very simple through certain items in the budget. And it's not to be ignored. Therefore, I consider it necessary to say only two, three words and react in this respect because there have been many words and findings here today about the position of Croats outside the border, meaning in other countries. And the historical facts were probably not by chance that in my country of origin there are almost the same number of Croatian members of Croatian nationality as the Hungarians in Croatia. And, of course, it's convenient to compromise it, we have knowledge of our position here, we have some knowledge of the position of Croats in every aspect of the country of origin, and what would say thank God is a satisfying state. However, I must say one fact, despite the fact that many indicators speak about that the standard of citizens in some sense in some of the indicators in my country of origin is lower than the standards of the population of the Republic of Croatia, and as a minority here in Croatia as regards our social standard, I would say, I would be free to express myself, under the standards of that minority in my country of origin. And that's why I asked for the word simply to make a big request that the fact be taken into account because almost 90% of the minority I represent lives in the field of special state care.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25730	Thank you very much, we understand. Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25731	When I was talking about instructing to favour certain national minorities, of course I didn't mean the budget, nor do I now intend to talk about the budget, Croatia as much as it can help national minorities. It's not enough for us, but the economic situation isn't as it should be. So we have to settle for a certain situation and more than be satisfied. I was talking about the fact that certain national minorities were told that they intended to favour themselves through constitutional law. It doesn't answer absolutely to the truth, and then I put out what was actually a shame. Shame was the way the Constitutional Court reacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25732	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25733	Thank you. I must confess that, if I understand correctly, then you made a very constructive proposal when you spoke of a letter vote. However, any form of voting, any form should be equally and accessible and applied to all Croatian citizens. So, regardless of whether they are in BiH, Australia, New Zealand, in the Republic of Serbia. So, any model, and we talk about it all the time, all Croatian citizens should consume their right to vote on equal terms and in equal ways. Ways can also be multiple. And that is why what you have been talking about should be thought about as you should and in particular think about your finding that and when a reduction was agreed on, that is to say, the number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament from the Croatian diaspora whether it is necessary and the possibility of being five or six would be necessary to do so, to stop the number on the number three. But now it's already done and there's no more time to waste about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25734	Thank you very much. Replication response, the esteemed representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25735	Well, I think that I could agree with you, and I think that in another way, members of the minority, in this case of the Serb minority, I'm talking only about them now who haven't yet reached their right to return, we could vote why not by letter, so we wouldn't have to, so it would also be saved on certain companies that are encouraging them to come here to vote, and they also by letter, why not? But in a different way than the Croats outside the country because in a specific return process they are included today while it lasts. It'll take some time. But I agree with you what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25736	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25737	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, so far, not only has there been a lot of debate as to how the Constitution changed 2010, as there have been three representatives of Croatian citizens living outside the country, and since counterpart Radin also mentioned it in the context that you agreed on, and I couldn't be proud of it, that's how you said it. So when it comes to that number of three, or three MPs who can be elected, I would like to remind you that you were part of the ruling coalition at the time and that you witnessed how difficult, unsettling and impossible it was for times to reach any agreement. Namely, we had to change the Constitution not because of the vote of Croatian citizens living outside the country but we had to amend the Croatian Constitution in order to complete the negotiations because we had, of course, obligations related to the acquis, obligations to further strengthen the independence of the State's Attorney's Office, the Croatian National Bank, the State Judicial Council, the Council of Lawyers, etc., etc. However, the opposition then ultimated the agenda and changed the number of MPs who must be elected as citizens of Croatia living outside the Republic of Croatia and the initial position after we could even agree to sit down for what such table was no one. It was the initial position of the ruling coalition with the then opposition. No one was asked for the ultimate. This was finally some kind of agreement that was a compromise but only because we were changing the Constitution for the final negotiation. And I am proud that we have succeeded in reaching a consensus, which we have managed to close negotiations, sign a contract because Croatian citizens who, for example, live in the BIH to which this applies most of the time, will be also EU citizens on July 1st of the following year And yet we opened up what kind of... [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25738	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honorable Representative Fulio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25739	My colleagues, Kosor, I accept that I was part of your coalition, but at some times it wasn't so bad, some of them were worse, but some of them weren't so bad. And I also accept that at that time you accepted a compromise, but the fact remains that you accepted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25740	It's a shame that other participants in these discussions can't replicate right now, but that's the rules of procedure, so we're gonna swallow it. Okay. Thank you very much. Let's go to the fifth replica and honorary representative of Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25741	Thank you very much Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, so colleague Radin, here's my previous colleagues already said something I wanted to say, but here's a little correction I wanted to say already and in the past law the question of sick persons, immobilized persons, so in hospitals, in retirement homes. That's where the election committees came in so people could exercise their right to vote, you said it wasn't there. You mentioned that you were in Ukraine where it was settled, but it was settled with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25742	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25743	This debate was held on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and the answer was that no, that there is no what, in retirement homes, but in hospitals there is no such thing, we are told there is no such thing. I honestly haven't seen such cases that in hospitals you have these large commissions that go from bed to bed to vote. I didn't see it, and the answer to the motion was that there was no such thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25744	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. And the Proposer on behalf of the Proposer, the Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25745	I don't think you understand the motionary's answer very well, sir. So in the homes of the people who are there are not temporary, they have moved there and there are de facto permanent and there is their residence and then there is their polling place. As for the people who are in hospitals, they are in the hospital temporarily and do not change their residence at the hospital and there is no polling ground. But at least there are at least three ways these people can vote, first if they come to the hospital before this deadline, then they can temporarily enter a place where, if they are not local elections, if the local elections can't, then they can't be signed up temporarily and then the election board will go to the powerless, so the election board will come to them by place and they will vote. Secondly, if they are mobile, they can also be temporarily entered and will go to the polling post, vote and return to the hospital if such a condition is possible. If possible, so if it can be moved and allowed to leave the hospital. But for people who, from the day of the voter's election, ended up in the hospital, we couldn't solve it that way. It's similar to what Mr. Mlakar used to say on behalf of the club for people who would die from the day of the census to the election. They'll stay the same on the polling list, they won't vote. Therefore, the largest number of people is allowed to vote, and there is one part where we simply cannot allow a vote in such a way that if one two days before the election ends up in a hospital, unfortunately we cannot transfer it from one list to another because then all the others would have to be out of place for any reason to move the same day. That's what we said was 10 or 8 days before the election and then we're closing the voter list and we're sort of reducing the possibility of abuse. So as far as possible or as reasonable as possible, they will be able to vote if they do the advances they need to perform or temporarily enter, so the electoral board comes to them as well as to those who are powerless or do temporary enrolment and go to the polling station if they are mobile in the place where they are found. If they are not local elections, then unfortunately they cannot where local elections are located only.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25746	Dear Ministers, we have three replicas of your exposure. First and most respected representative, Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25747	Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I have the constitutional right to vote, and you have the constitutional right to make it possible for me. I break my leg on Saturday, end up in a hospital on Sunday's election day. Everyone has the right to vote, and I don't have it, and I have constitutional right to be guaranteed. Isn't there a law that can somehow be a commission that can go to the hospital and fix it and fix it. Because we have fought to speak on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities that those with reduced business capacity for them have fought to vote for those who work and pay taxes and everything and end up accidentally at the hospital they simply can't vote. And then you say we're not cut off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25748	The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25749	Not wanting to go into further controversy is a similar case to, say, if I went to vote and didn't drive the ferry because of the storm or if you went to vote and didn't drive the ferry because of the storm. So unfortunately, there's something called a higher power when it can't be fully secured. So, to some extent, it is ensured that, in that case, everyone could then vote at any polling station when it is our constitutional right, we shouldn't need temporary registration or active registration or temporary registration, but would come to a polling station and the state would have to provide us with anywhere to get us to vote. So again, people have to go to their polling post in their place of residence if they want to vote and that's what everyone has and that's to ensure constitutional law. Everyone's got a chance and everybody's got a chance. These additional possibilities of technical possibility unfortunately the state cannot predict and secure all cases therefore, including if someone ends up in the hospital the day before the election. Unfortunately, he can't and can't see, so they still remain the constitutional right to vote on where you're on the voters' list. However, this is one of the easiest things to say is the higher power, and unfortunately, it is not possible to predict in such detail because then we could really abolish any kind of electoral census that the polling place of hunger is regardless of where the voter's residence is, because it has constitutional right. So that's a little too broad an interpretation I'd say but I believe at some point we'll even be able to solve such cases. That's something the gentlemen were talking about online voting on some other types of voting. But let's get the voter lists started and then we'll think about how it's said in Croatia for the election process.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25750	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25751	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, maybe I should help because we're getting a little lost in this debate. So I hope no one gets sick even though it always happens. There are those who find themselves in the hospital with their will and beyond their will. But that's not the problem with this law at all. The election commission determines the polling stations so it can determine the polling station in the hospital. Our practice has shown such demands so far but it was difficult to determine because then it starts to argue whether they are just county hospitals, whether they are only university hospitals and whether in hospitals you can guarantee in some way good conditions that you do not harm patients and that you allow them to exercise their voting rights. Therefore, the electoral commission can set up polling stations in hospitals, as well as members of the election board can go to the patients and take their votes. How often this has been used in practice is another question but possible solutions exist. Here's to help the ministry and it's not the subject of this law at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25752	What do we conclude that everything is legal and practically not? Okay. Next replica and respected representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25753	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister said that the technical capabilities of the state cannot be secured in certain cases and always a clear matter will be some cases where it will not be possible to provide. But there is one solution here that obviously the current government is not ready to resolve. Why wouldn't it be a letter vote? It's written? That standard even BiH has. Therefore, there are standards and why such a solution could not be applied. And it does not want to be applied, not that there are no technical options. And why he won't apply will take a little more time, so I'll say it in my discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25754	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25755	Mr. Representative, in my opening statement, I have actually expressed my willingness to introduce a correspondence vote. I don't know if you were in the hall, but then one of the last sentences was about, I don't know if I'm going to quote it exactly, but the point will stay, it's that active registration will create the conditions for us to introduce a letter vote in one election. Therefore, it is now a very different context than it was in 2010 when constitutional changes were made because then it was a correspondence vote, at least we looked at it that way, we looked at it as a means of enormously increasing the number of representatives from the diaspora, and when we said it was a fixed quota then the correspondence vote no longer has that function and it is acceptable for us. In view of the constitutional provision on voting at polling stations in diplomatic and consular representations for the introduction of a correspondence vote, a certain intervention in the Constitution, of course not only likely, but once it comes to the agenda, could certainly do so, the intervention could provide a correspondence vote. About time I don't know, I can't, I mean constitutional changes, I wouldn't want to open it up as a topic right now. But it is no doubt that the position of the government, the position of the ruling coalition and the position of most parties in the ruling coalition is that we are open to a letter vote for the Croatian National Assembly, for citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia and the Institute of Active Registration, we see it as one of the conditions for fixing the electoral census, but then he would have one other mechanism, so it would last longer, it might be worth one election cycle and they would regulate it in one way that would probably have been accepted by consensus. So, as far as the correspondence vote is concerned, we're open and supportive of that idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25756	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and the Honorable Representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25757	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members. I would neither like to be understood nor intended to be understood as the promotional propaganda of the Union for Civil Ethics of Croatia prior to the local elections. I would certainly point out that this is a positive shift, this law that we are discussing and in this regard we welcome and accept but with some reserves. I do not like the way in which the number of representatives in the city councils and in the county councils is increased because they are somewhat part-time jobs, and we are in a major crisis. I wish it didn't increase because it damages the budget, either at local level, or at state level. Secondly, I would point out that when it comes to changes in accordance with this law, I wish we had entered a wider debate, which is that before the law we must all be equal, equal, all citizens of Croatia, for that I advocate. In this regard, we are as independent representatives of the Alliance for Positive Discrimination that national minorities are given double right to vote because it ends later with a certain, however understood, trade. I believe that Croatia needs structural changes and new electoral legislation to start with, but here are some of the opinions that there is time for presidential and parliamentary elections, so that will be the turn. We are for one voter to have only one vote, the right to vote, so we are against positive discrimination. I wouldn't go for either left or right because I've heard a lot of good from the right and the right, and I've heard a lot of questions on the left and on the left. That's why I'm up for it, I'm up for it, that we're all MPs here looking for the best solutions, and when it comes to this law, and we're not going to achieve the perfect solutions, there's just no such solutions. We have to keep looking for them, but we have to be aware it's hard to find them. And I would like to conclude something else that goes into a broader debate, which is that voters are directly picking people off the list, not that the lists are picking up votes and who is appointed by the political party that goes to council members or MPs, and not those whom people would like to choose. These are some remarks waiting for us to resolve them in accordance with the Constitution that we are all citizens equal before the law, regardless of the political party, ideology, nationality or the secular commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25758	Thank you, Your Honor. At your presentation, respected representative Josip Boric reported a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25759	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I have to admit, and you've completely missed the subject that we're talking about today, right now, me. You were talking about the other two laws and provisions that were passed by the other two laws, and you didn't even say the register of voters. That's all I wanted to say, "Don't make any damage to the Rules of Procedure." For indeed man spoke of the provisions of the other two laws all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25760	I thought your interest was far wider, so good. The answer to the replica? Nothing. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Now we move on to the debate, an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25761	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. In fact, part of today’s debate was pruning from hypocrisy and that part of the discussion of diaspora. That's what they talked about the most. In fact, you should ask yourself who cares about diaspora in the Croatian Parliament. Is that what the SDP cares about or does that matter to HDZ? I think it's a little coma. If you cared about the diaspora here in the assembly would certainly be representatives of North and South America, representatives of Australia, representatives of New Zealand. However, the only concern is to worry for years and the battle over how many parliamentary deputies will sit in this Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament and who will step up their club. Nothing else. Don't worry about the diaspora! Many influential representatives of the diaspora, and we agree that citizens of the Republic of Croatia living in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose homeland, Bosnia and Herzegovina, is not diaspora. Many representatives of the diaspora have repeatedly pointed out that it is rude to live outside the Republic of Croatia in respect of any state not to pay taxes in that country and affect who will rule in the country in which they live. They themselves have advocated the sitting of several representatives of the diaspora in the Croatian Parliament, not to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament and to determine how it is determined today who will sit on behalf of that diaspora in the Croatian Parliament. The non-principlemental figure is also 3 MPs, the unprincipled figure is 12 MPs because they do not represent the diaspora we are talking about today. The other thing is what Minister Bauk said about who represents the diaspora and who represents the citizens of Croatia who live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So when it comes to this problem, let us not be hypocritical, let us look ourselves in the eye and see, let us see what has happened so far. The representatives of the HDZ Club say we were forced to blackmail the SDP. That's not true. So you agree to the game and you agree that it's a racketeering, if it was a racketeering. So what did you agree to? As SDP, Croatia would not be in favour of joining the EU. They sat at the table right away and said nothing. You knew they'd say anything. You're going to say 12, you're going to find yourself on number 3. And you said yes? Come on, just get Mrs. Kosor. That was your bargaining policy. It's a clean store and that's the store you agreed to. And now don't take on any other responsibility or guilt. You don't care about diaspora. You care about 3 or 12 before you had parliamentary representatives. And that's the truth about it. As the Croatian Labour Club will support this Law, so I will personally uphold the law. But I have one objection, and that's the letter vote we were talking about. Weakness is in the 21st century and we cannot find a model that applies in many countries of Europe by a correspondence vote. In writing, the vote is a challenge, the inability to vote in writing by many of these debates, and many of the debates would be different, and there would be less impatience to put in place a letter vote. That is why a letter vote cannot be voted in the 21st century and the legislator does not agree to a correspondence vote. I don't know, it's not a single explanation. And the active registration says it's the way to a letter vote. Why not immediately, apply to this job, why not see the practices of the other countries and that the correspondence vote becomes an integral part of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25762	Thank you, too, for the presentation, Your Honor. But 7 replicas have been reported for your exposure. He is the first and most respected representative of Furio Radin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25763	Thank you very much. My replica first goes in line with what Mr. Vukusic said. But if there's two things I'd like to do next. Which one? If you want to look around who cares that the representatives of the diaspora have their rights in the Croatian Parliament and in Croatian politics you don't have to go too far. I care about him for two reasons. The first reason is that because of our dual citizenship and I am kind of diaspora myself, even though neither I nor my family have moved from our home forever, but we are a diaspora and I know what psychologically means to participate in the political life of a cultural homeland, the homeland of your culture. Not where you're a political man like a political Croat in Croatia, but where you come from culturally. And secondly, because, and that's what I said in the Parliament, because my fear is always one that somewhere between the brain and the small brain, between the big brain and the small brain, is the fact that the rights of diaspora and the rights of national minorities in the country are still linked. That's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25764	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25765	A very short answer, that I asked who cared, and I said a little who cared. I'm sorry, she doesn't care about SDP or HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25766	Thank you very much. We're going with another replica and a respected representative of the Adriatic Ocean Kosor, please state it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I absolutely refuse to insinuate MP Vuksic that in constitutional changes, the SDP has been recalibrating HDZ. This stance on the vote of citizens outside the Republic of Croatia was a political stance primarily of the SDP. So, their political position. Your political position that you pointed out and in the campaign for parliamentary elections was very clear. Our position was completely different and in order to change the Constitution we had to come up with a solution because without, of course, the representatives of that opposition could not change the Constitution. And that's how it is, fortunately or sadly in political life. So there was no racketeering, there was no bargaining policy, but we did what we could to complete the negotiations. And my colleague Vuksic, if we hadn't changed the constitution, we'd never have finished negotiations. And next year Croatia would not be an EU member. I advocate that in this assembly we discuss only if we know something about a subject that's on the agenda and we discuss arguments. Namely, when you say that we care about the representative of the diaspora, then the representatives of North and South America, Australia, New Zealand and Canada would sit here. Mr. Representative from those countries... Well someone mentioned earlier, but if we exempt Canada but all these continents you mention together or better said on all continents live together 5 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Five thousand who have the right to vote. And that's a fact. And when you argue and when you plant, you take care of the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25768	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25769	Actually, you haven't answered my question, you've replicated. First, you said the SDP would not have agreed to the changes needed to join the EU if you hadn't agreed to this. What is it, blackmail? He would have agreed to the SDP, but the SDP knew who he had on the other side, so he acted wisely. The second thing, if more than a million Croats outside Croatia have won citizenship in the 1990s, then your fact of 5 thousand is not true. The other thing is, don't talk about diaspora then and think about BiH because BiH citizens are not diaspora.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25770	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25771	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, my colleague Vuksic, I absolutely support you in your position and discussion that Croats in BiH are not any diaspora of the Republic of Croatia. And it would be good for the future of these people and their fellow citizens, so other constituent peoples and other citizens of BiH to stop it I would say a word to intimidate and manipulate because these people need their own BiH homeland. I also agree with the fact that certain political options are likely to do so not out of real concern but because of their own political interests with a view to making it a clear digression between major political parties that go out there or not. So, those who have a clear attitude towards the Croats in BiH, I don't think they'll even come out there. So, they will take their political stance seriously, and those who probably count on support think they are making political happiness conditional but also the misfortune of members or compatriots of the Croats in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25772	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25773	A brief response, citizens of the Republic of BiH who are also citizens of BiH, as he would say in a nice Serbian language, a fellow who sat on the right and was no longer present, have been very often a prostitute.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25774	Thank you very much. I must warn that the Croatian Constitution speaks of Croatian citizens and does not make a difference. Unfortunately, today's debate lost the fact that Croatian citizens in the Constitution have a unique name. Well, I'm afraid the law lost that, too. ... Let's go with the next replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25775	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, I don't know what's so cool about, the goat or what's in your speech. In fact, you know well that the Constitution as a fundamental political act is the result of a political compromise. In the end, a two-thirds majority is also needed to adopt and amend the Constitution precisely to ensure that this basic legal and political act is the result of the compromise of all political options. If you call it racketeering then well, it's your political level. I call it a good political compromise and, yes, my colleague, it is true that the constitutional changes were necessary at that time to allow Croatia to join the EU. It is also true that in relation to the issue of Croatian citizens' voting rights which do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, I would like to explain to you that it is clearly related both to the diaspora and to the Croats in BIH. The SDP's position was clear that they should not be given any voting rights, the HDZ's position was clear that they should be given more than they currently have. And the result of the compromise is what is now prescribed by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. These political views, as you can see, are further discussed by law under the provisions of the Constitution. Given that the political option of the Kukuriku coalition is in a position to pass laws. These laws are being worked out in a way that makes that right as little as possible. It is likely that the political option of the HDZ in power would be to develop legislation to make them as many as possible, i.e. to be in a legal exercise as easily as possible. That's it. So you don't have to be angry and you don't have to eat because the Constitution is a political compromise because that's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25776	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25777	Mrs. Lovrin, this is not a yoke, but a passion for politicians that you don't have, simply what you are I translate, namely don't worry about my level, you worry about your level. We sold you out to join the EU. That's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25778	Thank you very much. We stop selling. I call upon the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic and his replica to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25779	Dear Mr. President, the replica of the gentleman, on a colleague of Vuksic. He said no one cares about the diaspora, and neither will HDZ, I will not speak to the other party he mentioned. A colleague of Vuksic would say Furio Radin's garden of debauchery more by HDZ you and anyone in a stupid way, in a stupid, impeccable, unprincipled, demagogue manner quite, garden. Otherwise, we will raise the level of discussion in this House to a slightly higher level, a little stronger, stronger, or whatever you want because you tell HDZ not to worry about diaspora with everything that HDZ and other parties have done here since the 1990s for the diaspora, and all of this is immoral on your part, immoral. And Mr. President of the Parliament took my second thought, so as we from this college, we call it the college Croats outside the Croatian diaspora. How will I define the Croats in the BIH if they are not diaspora and they must be citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It may be that you are advocating the great Croatia to Drina, then you should in some way embrace Croatia all so that they are, what, I don't know which, you don't understand the thing. They are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they have the same status as those in the United States, they happen to be in Bosnia who they are and we have no other model. If we have another model then we find him but let's not say they're not diaspora, what are they? President of the Parliament, I think he answered your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25780	Before I respond to the replica, Honorable Representative Dujomir Marasovic, I think you were very credible in your request to raise the level of debate to a higher level, so I won't give you a warning. I'd like the respected representative, Branko Vuksic, to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25781	I would continue to honor the President on this, you at that level can speak at least in this Croatian Assembly. First of all, you can't tell anyone enough, as I won't tell you enough, and secondly, when it comes to your morals and your party's morals, enough is said of that morality by countless judicial proceedings that are being conducted right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25782	Thank you, let's go with the replicas further, dear representative Dinko Buric. Don't come from the bench, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25783	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. My replica also refers to the part where you spoke about the variant of the correspondence vote, but also to the conclusion that the respected president of the Croatian Parliament said well, because I wanted to remind you of the article 45 of the Croatian Constitution which speaks about Croatian citizens from 18 years of age, voters who have general and equal voting rights in elections for the Croatian Parliament, President of the Republic, Croatian Parliament. So, when we talk about all Croatian citizens, whether we have used the diaspora correctly or incorrectly concretely for Croatian citizens living in the BIH, they have the right to consume their constitutional right to vote as well as everyone else and under the same conditions, and if in that same article 45, it is again about the law that we are now discussing precisely the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia how to consume this right for all Croatian citizens who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, that they can only use it in consular representations of the Republic, then it must be universal for all Croatian citizens of the Republic. And the question arises and the constitutionality of such legal solutions that give to individual members of Croatia, Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia what we were talking about, to Croatian citizens who will come here. It's contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25784	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25785	Dear counterpart Buric, I agree with you and also advocate the same right of all Croatian citizens as the Constitution says. However, I also agree with the SDP's efforts to vote against all Croatian citizens but not a special constituency.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25786	Thank you very much. And the next replica, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25787	Thank you. A respected colleague in Croatian politics was a lot of trade, and I would even call markets, not just trade in that general sense or compromise, to call it a compromise. Unfortunately, the EU has become Croatia's only way out and unfortunately the only perspective, depending on how it is viewed, is that Croatia's policy has led it to have only one door to rescue. We don't have any other doors, we don't have any more windows. The compromise was and that agreement was an arbitration agreement with the Republic of Slovenia because the agreement first and foremost gave up the right to its borders and about the borders of the Republic of Slovenia will be decided by arbitration. This arbitration may decide, among other things, that the border with the Republic of Slovenia goes down here on Ilica and we will have to accept it. No, you can't legally formally not, but legally yes. The compromise was also the ZERP now knows who was in favour of such compromises who opposed such compromises that have led to that. And here we have a nice grip on the hand of a gentleman of a lady, and among other things, the title that all Croats got by agreement. And I'm saying they're not. The smallest Croats in Croatia and even less Croats out of Croatia. and it's a fact and it's true and there's no other truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25788	A respected colleague in a democratic society is very important to respect the rule of democracy. I didn't say anything. I'm saying in principle it's very important to follow the rules. ... In this case, I'm sorry. I have some right and some obligation from this table. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, but I'm going to use the Rules of Procedure in this case. I was obliged to say this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. We're going to have a discussion. He's got a reply to the replica. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25789	Well, it's very short. My colleague, you spoke of a compromise that there is a compromise in every policy. I'm sure he does. The compromise takes two sides, and when a compromise is reached, then the other side is not accused of having to do something. She agreed to it. That's all I was talking about, principles. Politics should be principled.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25790	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. I call on Honorable Representative Antu Babic to begin the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25791	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, we actually had a final proposal for a residence law, which is a prerequisite for a register of voters. We certainly welcome the preparation of the register of voters, but we note that in the general public the perception of the unsettled lists of voters has been highlighted, and something has been said by my colleague Ivčević today on behalf of the SDP club. It was precisely because of this negative perception that it hurried to provide as many mechanisms as possible to update voters. Did that work? We'll see. But I will look back on a few things that will certainly create doubts or problems before and during the elections. We've heard about some of them today during this debate. The problems that will arise in island municipalities and other smaller municipalities are linked to the home address. Some municipalities made decisions on the appointment of streets and squares, but because of the financial impediments of the inhabitants of certain municipalities, they did not force themselves to change their identification documents at the end of the period. Then what happens to the voters' lists? Will the list of voters be the name and last name with the correct card but the wrong address so that voters will be prevented from voting? Can you say, in that case, only a note can be made at the polling station itself, a note? In Article 14(2), we stated and listened to the Law on the residence of the MUP last night, immediately after the vote is called, or to a referendum, the competent authority shall provide information on Croatian citizens with voting rights which are the date of validity of the identity card higher than the date of the elections or the referendum. After closing the database, the data on Croatian citizens with voting rights will also be provided. It was then necessary to discuss together with the proposal for a new Law on residence and the Law on the register of voters properly and to amend the Law on the ID card as we have often spoken on committees, if you remember a respected minister. It is this law that creates many problems for Croatian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in Croatia but come to Croatia to stay temporarily or occasionally, emigrants, for example, from overseas countries. The amendments to the laws should allow the granting of cards and to Croatian citizens who do not have permanent residence in Croatia, and should provide that the identity of a person is demonstrated by the identity of the identity of the person, and other rights from the title of permanent residence are to meet the conditions set out for example. The Act on Child Compensation, Customs Law, etc. In the final proposal of the Law on the Registration of Voters, we are not clear Articles 19 and 20 on the registration and registration of voters of EU members who exercise electoral law in the Republic of Croatia. Article 19 states that citizens of the Member States of the European Union who exercise voting law in the Republic of Croatia shall be registered in the register of voters according to the place of residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia within a period of time and subject to the conditions laid down by specific laws. And Article 2 states: the Member States of the European Union who wish to vote in the elections for the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and local referendum shall be registered in voter records according to the place of residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of requests. Does this mean that citizens of the Member States of the European Union will be able to participate in the elections for representative bodies of local and regional self-government and local referendums and when they do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia until Croatians, Croatian citizens who have a temporary residence in Croatia, or residence, have the same right? It should also be added that the last amendments to the Constitution are really limited to the right that we have heard about today, the vote of the XI voters. the electoral units because no matter how many of them went to the elections can actually get up to three representatives and can only vote in diplomatic and consular representations about what has been said today, about this flow actually in consular representations. The unwanted consequences that will arise if the Croatian Parliament adopts this Final Proposal for a Law on residence and residence and the Final Proposal on the Registration of Voters without an appropriate amendment to the Law on the ID will result in the special introduction of an active registration institute of citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia. Dear Minister, we've talked a lot about active registration on committees, and this is one of the biggest anomalies of this law, remember. The consequences of that institute are as follows. First, a small number of citizens will register for a vote, which is clear to you. It is known that in the emigration we have most workers who are hard to leave work to travel to remote diplomatic representations to register actively. Secondly, diplomatic representations will be mere notes of those who wish to vote. It will not be activated to collect data on Croatian communities in emigration. Thirdly, it will greatly weaken the interest of Croatian emigrants and Croats from BiH for a stronger connection with Croatia for participation in its economic, cultural and political life. A country that wipes out its citizens, treats them as foreigners, not even their ID card is certainly not a country in which Croatian emigrants will want to invest, and we talked a lot about it today. In fact, two categories of Croatian citizens will be created. First, Croatian citizens who can also work on the basis of Article 32 of our Constitution have the rights set out in this article of the law and Croatian citizens who will have to obtain a work permit for their work and stay in their home country and will indeed be denied the right to do so in Article 32. The Constitution. Many, I remind you, still remember the time when the former Croatian state in emigration and Croats treated temporary work in Germany, Austria, etc., which lived under one pressure and threatened to take away a passport, then a passport. Although I believe the Proposer of the Law on the Registration of Voters does not think so, it is the impression that we still have some kind of hostile emigration that authorities are threatening to delete from the record, withdraw or deny their identity card. Such perception is created in public. And fifthly, Croatia will have fewer voters to elect representatives from Croatia to the European Parliament, and this seems to be the goal of those who suggest that Croatia on the outside delete excess voters. Is Croatia's interest in Croatia's elections for representatives from Croatia to the European Parliament, so that Croatia takes away the electoral right of most of its citizens and reduces the quota of representatives from Croatia. It is actually an impression that we are competing to take away the rights of the Croats as we share with others what our people say with a hand and a hat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25792	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative, Dinko Buric, has been reported. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25793	Dear counterpart Babić, here you are one of the few who has touched a very important issue, and that is what will happen to the application of this law when Croatia becomes a full member. I will remind you of that booklet "101 Questions About the European Union" which the delegation headed by Mr Paul Vandoren issued here, under 5 or 6 questions were asked and the answer to that question. When we become a member of the European Union, then citizens of any member of the European Union will be able to participate in the elections for units of local and regional self-government, not for the Croatian Parliament, but every five years they will be able to participate in the elections for our representatives in the European Parliament. Therefore, the finding you have just said, the question of whether on the one hand the pursuit of this law is to reduce the number of Croatian citizens as representatives of the European Parliament is only one side of the story. Let us not forget that every citizen of a Member State of the European Union every 5 years when we choose our representatives for the European Parliament will be allowed to apply only to the register of voters here, the register of voters writes so, and that they will have the right. We can theoretically happen to have 100,000 Italians sign up to Zadar and that we have a situation that we have a representative and mayor of Zadar Italian, as well as a representative in the European Parliament who will not be a Croatian citizen. Theoretically, I'm asking the question. That's what it says. You convince me, and then I'll sleep more quietly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25794	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. I'm calling on the esteemed representative, Anna Lovrin. We can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25795	... Mr. President, I repeat. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. Here I am going back to the details of this law. Of course, in your explanation, you said that this new Law on the Registration of Voters needs to be passed, because in the implementation of the law so far, there remained a strong perception in the general public about the disorder of the list or the register of voters. True, but we are not sure that by passing this law, and in particular by passing the law of the one we discussed yesterday in the Croatian Parliament, which is the Law on residence which is closely related to this law, it will indeed be so, within what time it will be. That's why I point to the related provisions of the Law on residence and of this law. Certainly if we talk about persons who have registered residence in the Republic of Croatia, but really do not live at that address, and this is mainly important for local elections. So that residence is for these state elections and the state referendum is not so important because they will exercise outside the Republic of Croatia their electoral right. But it's extremely important for local elections. And if we're already introducing the Law on residence of what wasn't so far, and that's eradicating from the residence records ex-ofo persons who are found not to be resident there, then it's certainly not good that we left these laws with transitional and final provisions for a year to register them. What does that mean? This means that these lists of voters will not be arranged for the upcoming local elections. And that I'm misunderstood is a lot to talk about buses. On the one hand, only buses in Vrgorec or somewhere, the other side is disturbed by buses, for example in Knin, Benkovec, Iron, etc. But in order to resolve all this, it was only necessary to shorten this deadline because it is also valid for persons covered by the renewal programme but also for all other persons who, on the day of entry into force of that law, are found outside the Republic of Croatia to have reasons for the occurrence of time for a year to be manifested. In that year they won't be deleted from the residence records. So, I'm stressing. Lists of voters for the next local elections will not be arranged in this regard. Another measure that you try to solve or edit a list of voters as you say is an active registration. I was already talking about it in the replica. Of course certain political positions and attitudes are expressed in the context of constitutional provisions in such a way as to make this constitutional right more difficult to reach. It seems to me that on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a colleague has said in a very good way that now, what will happen now, we will not have more 450,000 voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. We'll have as many as we'll have for each election, which means every once in a while they come to consular and diplomatic representations and sign up. Of course, they will be far away, far less so that they will be denied their constitutional right as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because they will have physical obstacles to travel to a large distance up to 10 days before the election to apply, to want to vote, and then in 10 days to regain their right to do so again. The proposer would have done a lot if the explicits in the law had determined that the registration was possible both by electronic means and in this sense required consular-diplomatic representations to ensure and implement it in such a way. So, so much for this, about active registration. It will certainly drastically reduce the number of people who will vote outside the Republic of Croatia for a simple reason, because heavy physical and material obstacles to this will be. I'd like to point out something more than Article 40. I've also invested one amendment in that sense. So he's talking about a temporary entry into the towel register, the voters. Lapsus. Since this is possible in practice so far, just so-called. The referendum and the state elections, meaning for MPs in Parliament, for the President and for the European Parliament, it is necessary to make this clear to this article and to say, rather than relying on other electoral laws. I've been through, say, the Local Elections Act. It doesn't say "explicits" anywhere, I didn't find it, but there's no provision that says it can't be voted outside of the residence. Since this is not prohibited in this Electoral Law, or not allowed, this Law should then be sterilized, and in that sense I have tabled an amendment. I suggest for clarity and beg that he be accepted. There is one more thing that needs to be brought into line with our laws, regardless of what the Housing Act suggests on behalf of the Government of the Ministry of the Interior, and this is the Ministry of Administration, but let's say when we talk about the OIB and the citizens' home number, you gave an explanation that you needed the home number of citizens for the reasons that they only have natural persons, etc. However, you, in the provisions of this law, say that it is necessary to have the OIB and the home number in the register, and for example, when reporting the residence, it is said that the OIB and/or the citizens' home numbers should be held. One law that says and/or it's a law that doesn't know how to implement it because when a citizen comes, he doesn't know if it has to be cumulative or alternative. So it has to write or and-or. So these are two principles, cumulative or alternative. And it's not good that it's in the laws that we bring all the way to the Republic of Croatia that it doesn't even. I would like to say one more thing about a provision that is also here, as the Proposer said, accepted in the second reading, in his explanation, and I think we should approach it carefully. Therefore, it is said that the respected criticisms of the Ombudsman are for people with disabilities and accepts its proposal to ensure that all business incompetent persons are guaranteed voting rights. Nothing further worked out. So, we now have persons with disabilities, of course, who need to ensure this right, it's developed by this law. It's about a certain physical deficiency. However, I warn that people who have taken away their business ability first to have different degrees of taking away their business ability and, of course, to someone who, for example, has been partially deprived of their business ability not to be denied the right to vote, and I absolutely agree with that. I agree that even in some minor disability with mental impairment, this can be allowed, however, I ask the question of what is wrong with people with severe mental impairment or difficulties who are really incompetent to reason, which is found in the court procedure, and choosing and going to elections is one decision. So it's someone who has to be able to make decisions. If we give such voters the right question is who will actually decide for them because the right to vote is a decision and in severe cases mental damage and difficulty is taken away from their business ability precisely because these people could not make it. And it would be interesting, I know that a lot of civil society have talked about it, I don't know I haven't heard a personal lawyer but it would be interesting to hear what European practice is, as it is in other countries of Europe whether it's so practiced or not. Here's what I'd be interested in personally. But I think there should have been some difference here because it's about decision-making. Here's all the reasons I'd like to talk about, unfortunately this is the final proposal. Perhaps even the Government can intervene with the amendment somewhere, for example, that in active registration at least commits to ensuring conditions for registration by electronic means and thus the constitutional right of those citizens is not disabled. You, in your argument, have consulted constitutional experts on this issue of active registration and have said that the conditions for the exercise of rights can be regulated by law. It absolutely is, but what is a constitutional question and what the Constitution Committee has asked you is constitutionally to determine it against one group of voters, or citizens, and for another group not. So it's an unequal approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25796	Thank you, too. Next debate and respected representative Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25797	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I am sorry that there is no colleague from the SDSS, because all the time they say that we want to be equal, and since this is the Croatian Parliament and here is spoken Croatian, I would ask my colleagues to speak Croatian. Because some words I don't understand at all. Just a very short few things. As for emigrants, emigrants send about 2 billion kunas to Croatia annually. So you're helping your family, you're building their facilities. They are very much present in life in Croatia here. But when the election comes, then for some reason they become citizens of the second order. They say, now I hear there's about 5,000 citizens in eviction. Well, it's not their shame, it's our shame. It means we haven't given them a normal path or an easier way to get their IDs. We have embassies, we have consulates that are mostly for themselves, and I am telling you from experience because I know it took me 2.5 years to get a passport and I already had a Croatian passport. So I should have just extended it to Vancouver, for 2.5 years it took me to get to that passport. And of course a lot of people will give up on that Croatia that they have been helping all those years and during the war when it was most needed. Some of them are also gunned down, simply because their passport will when they can't vote. You have Croats living in Vancouver who are 5,000 miles away from Toronto. You have the first consulate in Toronto. How will they come to vote there? Why not by e-mail? So let them gather all these voices in Toronto or Ottawa, and send them to us from here. So, let's go out and meet these people who are trying really hard. And don't forget they come once a year, they have their own houses here and they come. We have the money outside, they invest it in Croatia. So, a significant part of the contribution to our economy. So let's get a little bit more honest, a little bit more friendly with these people to give them the right to vote. And as for the same hospital, I repeat, the lady who ended up in the hospital four years ago lost two votes and she ran. The first one couldn't vote for herself. Look, she broke her hip the day before and ended up in the hospital. It has this constitutional right and its constitutional right should be guaranteed. I think you can do it the way maybe election commission because every hospital director has the names of people, women, people who ended that day in that hospital every day. It's not a multimillion-dollar hospital that can't be done. So you can just be a little more willing. And we want our citizens to believe in power, to believe that it's all transparent, so it's not, it's not. Because let's figure out how many hospitals there are in Croatia, let's figure out how many people a few days before the election end up in those hospitals, then we'll know how many people can't actually consume that by their constitution guaranteed right. And when we do some laws or new laws like that, I think that we should just think about it all and talk to people and maybe just those people who live that way, maybe not just politicians, maybe these ordinary people who live there in a different way than we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25798	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25799	So I think there was a dangerous simple finding by Mrs. Tomasic when she said, I don't know someone from the Serb community or Serbian national representative spoke in Serbian and Mrs. Tomasic said she didn't understand him and asked him to speak in Croatian parliament in Croatian. Well I absolutely, absolutely Mrs. Tomasic, in use of the Constitution is a Croatian language, a latinic letter but the languages of national minorities are also used and chirillic this letter. Telling someone not to understand the language of members of the Serb community in the Republic of Croatia in my court is extremely, extremely dangerous. This isn't 91st or 41st. We live in 2012 today. It is not a question of whether to tolerate someone speaking Serbian in the Croatian Parliament or in the Croatian Parliament, but rather whether it is you who are the Constitution itself. In 45 C.E., members of the Italian community in Istria spoke even in Italian. Well, I guess now we're not 50 years or 6 years behind that time, and I'm really praying that this language of hate and exclusion is not used by anyone in the capital of Croatian democracy, which is the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25800	We have a response to the replica. Here you go, fellow Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25801	Comrade Cain, it is a little two-faced especially when we know what is happening in Istria and how and how and how you have reacted in some cases. So please don't lecture me. Secondly, this is the Croatian Parliament, in which it is spoken in Croatian, I was just praying for the Croatian language to be spoken here. Whether they speak Serbian or English or Portuguese in the hallway, I don't care. The Croatian Parliament speaks Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25802	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I'm unusually glad to see you, Mr. Minister, as a representative of the SDP during my time as Prime Minister of the United States, you've been very hard at times, and I can say that you've sometimes been ruthless to me and that's why I'm pleased to be able to commend you today. So what I can say is that as a minister who shows, and even in this law that, of course, I have objections, but in that fundamental idea, which is to edit a list of voters, to introduce order is based on what we call a legal state, and as long as we're not satisfied with order in all segments of life, we won't be able to say that we have a regulated rule of law until the end. So I welcome, I must say that here and in my government we have thought and tried a lot and made some steps on that path because I think that this fundamental electoral right that allows every citizen of the Republic, every citizen, to choose, and to be chosen, will be fully achieved if anyone who has the right to choose and be chosen but first and foremost to choose, but also that no one who does not have the right to choose and in what is essentially the right to vote in any way, for whom no one can be abused. So, we know and we're aware, we've had a lot of examples of it, reporting that I don't repeat at the same address of people who simply, a citizen, or voters who simply by the very logic of things, given the size of an apartment, some space, some rooms wouldn't stop, and they were registered to the same address. So, to repeat this effort, I especially commend you for what you are, i.e. it is interesting and very intriguing for me to support this day when we talk about the vote of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia to finally agree on a correspondence vote. It was one of the topics we discussed in the 2010 Constitution. I am very pleased that today as a minister of the SDP, you support this idea, the position of the SDP at the time was the opposite, or it was not similar, or it was not the same. And if that's what I think we would do very quickly because this side certainly has absolute determination to approach it at some time, so that very quickly and we can approach the amendments to the constitution and allow the correspondence vote of Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia by a letter vote, because on this side you have a very clear and precise position. When I talk about these changes, there was a lot of talk, that I had to repeat some of the facts of that period, that the president of SDP Milanovic and I of course went out together at a press conference, when we were able to agree until the end of the amendments to the Constitution. I am very sorry that all the other facts that were related to the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 were completely lost and of course there should have been consensus, of course there should have been an agreement. But no one here is even though they've been through just a little over two years since that time has mentioned how much work we've done in the amendments to the Constitution. Since embezzlement, here are the non-conforcing of crimes from conversion and privatisation, so something that was not related to the acquis and was our decision, or most of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and then all the jobs that we had to do for the EU. We had to add a whole chapter, to sign up for our EU membership from a European arrest warrant to, of course, domestic matters that are extremely important for the functioning of the rule of law at the end of the election of constitutional judges that we agreed to elect to the two-thirds majority of the referendum. We had to amend the provisions of the Constitution concerning a referendum on EU accession and it was also adopted by consensus. It is therefore not good to stick to the provisions that have been amended to vote by representatives of the so-called. Diaspora. Of course, the consensus couldn't have come if the ruling coalition had insisted on what it had been until then. Of course, the agreement on three agreements is, of course, no deal on the basis of racketeering and on the basis of blackmail, but simply because of the fact that there was no agreement in the Constitution we could not change. And I don't feel any shame about it. Of course, the question remains, if we have a quota of three MPs who can be chosen, how, in reality, to realize the constitutional right to return to the start of my debate which has the right to choose who has the right to vote on this right and to exercise it. Why? Because we also installed a vote in the Constitution exclusively in the DKPs. Of course it makes sense that we had the opportunity to see it in parliamentary elections. The fact is, every voter who has an orderly electoral right, therefore, is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who lives for example. in BiH, he could not exercise that right, simply because he did not get to the turn, simply because he did not make it to his polling post. I think that we should think about it in the future as I think that in some future we must think well and try to reach an agreement about it, that every MP and any MP elected to the Croatian Parliament has been elected by the same number of votes because the fact that we now have representatives and MPs who have been elected by different numbers of votes. It is for some future but it is also for some talks between all leading parliamentary parties in the Republic of Croatia. Because when you strip everything and get to the number of voters and the number of votes for a single representative or representative in the Croatian Parliament, then you see that for some, and some, it took a few thousand votes, and some only a hundred. And according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, all MPs in the Croatian Parliament are equally important and equally valuable. And finally, I commend you for listening to the Ombudsman for the disabled because this provision is achieving one of the key values of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities signed by the Republic of Croatia and the fourth in the world and ratified. However, those provisions should be developed because it is not the same position as some people who are deprived of legal capacity and, of course, a general person with disabilities. So here's the clue that I'm not repeating what Mrs. Lovrin mentioned earlier here in non-determining and not breaking these provisions to the end there's a possibility of manipulation because the electoral will, the voter's will must be his alone and no one should do so and should not or should not be influenced by the Constitution. So, in principle, I welcome that, but I think we should do it a little bit better. In short, we have a lot of work to do on this path, but this is also one of these important and valuable steps forward, certainly with the fact that, for example, I absolutely do not support those provisions concerning the registration of voters in BiH or outside the Republic of Croatia, because this will again prevent some people, some Croatian citizens, from achieving this fundamental constitutional right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25804	Thank you, too. Next up for debate, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25805	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Here are the HRT cameras out, and then there's no more replicas in the Parliament. It's an interesting phenomenon that we witness every day. However, the topic is important and I would like to focus my exposure on four aspects. The first is on one package character of this law with the law that we had yesterday, which is the Law on residence that was defended by the Minister of the Interior. The key to this law we saw was Article 12, so the possibility of erasing those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are being checked in the field that they are not permanently at the place where they are registered. What we can expect, we can expect interested bodies to initiate a number of field checks procedures to see if people are at the addresses where they were issued a ID card. I won't talk about cleaning, I won't talk about elimination, but it is about one deterring number of Croatian voters from using their political rights. Today's Law on Election Registration has its key, its key is called active registration of voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. A new institute is being introduced, the Institute in articles 28-33. In my opinion, as someone who has been a Croatian diplomat for nearly 18 years, who, unlike all the people who sit here right now in the Assembly, spent 8 years in a diplomatic mission, who has a remarkable sense of how much attention, attention, communication, attention is needed in relation to people who work in diplomatic missions and consular offices with Croatian citizens abroad who live there, I must admit that this was really written by someone who has no idea about it, who doesn't even see the consequences of this institute. In the earlier replica I already said Ministers may happen to us in 2014, 2015 that we have three to four opportunities to organise a vote in diplomatic missions and consular offices. Three to four times. Under your law where the rule of the General Administrative Procedure Act applies, it is necessary to personally come to a diplomatic mission in order to be actively registered, and you may already have been registered in that diplomatic mission. For example. Here at the embassy, I won't go far, we're going to France. Great country, 63 million people, huge surfaces, we only have Paris, only one embassy. The Croats in Nice, there's a Catholic mission there, there's a lot of Croats living there. In order to achieve their electoral rights, they must go almost 1,000 km. In a very short period, you have made sure that you have enabled the active registration of voters from the day of the election to Article 24(1), 10 days before the day specified for holding the elections. So one short period. During that period with this kind of savings, very restrictively capacitated diplomatic missions and consular offices which you are doing are practically situations that no one else in these offices is involved except for the active registration of voters. You're costing Croatian citizens. Absolutely discriminatory. What counterpart Stazic said, Croatia does not need the state to do so. Those who are far away, to whom it is further, may they be spent. Imagine the situation, elections for the European Parliament are in June 2014, after which there will be elections for the President of the Republic, shortly afterwards probably elections for the Croatian Parliament. Three times, three times. Isn't this a deterrent from taking part in that vote? I understand, so you didn't even care about going out with the XI candidates. election unit a year ago. That's what it says. It says someone who doesn't care at all, who might be the easiest person to stop it all, not to bother, but we can't. We can't do why, because here are the European Union's advocates, the current coalition was challenged in 2010 in the context of what, a European arrest warrant, the Office for Audition, the independence of the CNB, the acquisition of property rights over real estate, began to involve in the story of the number of representatives from the diaspora in the amendment of the Constitution that had nothing to do with this issue. What message is that? Is that good? There was someone talking about blackmail, comparing the arbitration agreement with the opposition's behaviour at the time. It wasn't European behavior, you know. And he's not proud of the current government, on the contrary. Perhaps we are raised on this side on the idea of the first President Tudjman on the unity of the country and evicted Croatia. You obviously didn't, because if you did, you wouldn't have put these diabolical articles from 28 to 33 in today's bill of law. And I am telling you this very argument because the operational consequences will be and that the number of Croatian citizens who will pass this procedure will be reduced so much that you will, by the principle of opportunity, say one day, not worth it to us. It costs us more than people come out. And that's not what the state needs to do for its citizens. Citizens have rights and obligations, but they also have states. Therefore, we must make sure that these solutions are not good. They may have been intensities to arrange voters' registers, to update records and lists, absolutely, with it I agree but not in this way, not in a way that creates literally one burden on a citizen who costs him both money and time. Often these are people of older age who do not watch websites, who may not have satellite television, have no idea when the deadlines mentioned here are or are interested in this law. He'll come on election day to the embassy and he'll say I'd vote. You know what happens then, then the election commission looks at your papers, so you're not active, you registered with your responsibility, we're sorry. If you'd ever seen the look on the face of people who are, say, 80 years old and who come to you after 500 km of time to the embassy and then to say, "Kiss the door," you'd never put such provisions into law. He's not coming back, he's not going back to the vote anymore. Therefore, these provisions on the active registration of voters I think are bad, that they introduce a real administrative barrier for Croatian citizens and put them in an inevitably much, much worse position than it is so far and not sending a good message. There is a message that we do not need a vote outside of Croatia gradually. There are such solutions. There are countries where you don't vote abroad. We're like a country that gained independence just 20 years ago now took one direction that is totally losing sight of the very short historical period in which we live. He completely loses sight of him as if no one had been here 20 years ago and remembered how many people who had left Croatia in the last few generations were lucky to have any document in their pocket that says Croatia. Is it possible that we all forgot? We're not. But you are obviously gradually following these steps, by yesterday's law, by today's law, by putting in the context of amendments to the Constitution, by reducing the number of MPs, by Croatians abroad doing steps that are transparent, which anyone who sees it can very clearly recognize. A few words about that part of the law relating to EU citizens. I see there were some doubts. This is not the only law that regulates this issue. The Croatian Parliament adopted something and the Law on Elections for the European Parliament even a year ago. It's also relevant to the Foreign Law. There is no great danger that 100,000 citizens of any other country will come to us and in some way affect the outcome of not so many elections for the European Parliament, because other than Daniel... And it seems to me that another one of the only MPs has never happened to choose someone in another country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are exceptions, and at the local level, there will be no such phenomena. And this law, these provisions of the law, in that sense, are not problematic. The problem is what's the key, and it's an active voter registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25806	Thank you. And finally Miroslav Tudjman. Here's a colleague of Tudjman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Every law has some meaning to be passed and the reasons why it needs to be adopted. In presenting, or advocating this law, I think the key line of the minister who told the story of the diaspora is over. And the view that it continues is that the SDP should not have been a single representative in the diaspora Parliament, and this is with these laws both yesterday and today simply wants to be operationalised to the end. Yesterday, a Law on residence and residence was passed where there would simply be lists of deleted citizens. I'll use the word deleted because it's in the first reading, that's the first bill written, and then the motioner at the board's session said it's not very convenient, so we'll call it a little different. Here in this discussion, colleague Horvat said he didn't really believe in the intention of, in the wrong intention of this law. A colleague, Radin said, will not change anything, will not reduce the number of MPs at all because there will still be three left, no matter how much they vote. That's right. But what's going to change to create an alibi is why it needs to be three or less than three. And what's the fact? The fact is, what's said here today, I can't remember now which one of the MPs is going to cut from 4.4 million lists to 3.8, three million 800. If you really wanted to go as it was then the question is what's being said about active voter registration. Well, gentlemen, you have laws in which a digital signature has been recognised. Then why can't a digital signature be used here for active registration in the voter lists. You have a number of other technical measures that you can take, and that these irregularities and riots that exist have no doubt, I don't believe anyone here in the assembly can advocate voting dead or voting those who have no right to vote. But the fact is that these measures are not being taken. In Croatia you can also organise a correspondence vote for those who are mobile, who are not at the given moment at their place of residence. As a first step, there is then an electronic vote which, as already said, exists in a number of countries. On the other hand, the story of the dead. Well, in each item, there is a price for each ministry to inform the database. Therefore, there is nothing easier and easier to make databases relevant from the polling list to the pension or this insurance to connect and to see who died in the meantime and to be considered as relevant data. These are all technical measures that could be improved. However, the point is something else and why these laws are harmful to Croatia in the long term independent of the parties in power or opposition. Kolega Plenkovic did not speak, and he could probably warn that today in Europe at a time of globalisation and these integrations a number of countries go and offer, advocates their diaspora citizenship. Take neighboring Italy. It offers citizenship not only from Istria but to Argentina. And that doesn't charge anything for a housekeeper unlike our policy where they're asking for $100 for a housewife, and that's where people get their monthly salary. Or in France where they changed both the Constitution and the laws and went to an increase not only in one but also in the second House of Representatives from the diaspora. Why? Because in a time of globalisation to have a diaspora, to commit, it means to ensure both economic and cultural and political and other ties. And that's the point of having people from the diaspora and Parliament, especially for small countries that need much more connections and opportunities to survive in these complex situations. What is the paradox of this logic, and where is the narrowness of this policy that wants to be advocated by the application of this law? We are all saying that next year, Croatia's borders will be European borders, that mobility will be much greater. Yes, there will be European borders except for Croatian citizens living abroad. To them it will be impossible, I have given examples on the board, you have means of Croatian citizens living abroad specifically in Canada, working there, having a factory, investing in Croatia, hiring people here but he will not be able to have a residence or residence here. Because of this law and this policy towards evicted Croatia. On the other hand, instead of applying these principles that Croatian citizens, regardless of nationality, have the same opportunities here, are created and simply divided to delay, i.e. to conceal this one narrowness that with these European integrations we need to have as many people as possible and support Croatian citizens everywhere in the world wherever we live. Therefore, in this sense this law is discriminatory. The thesis that there is a right to vote that it is constitutional law so it breaks into three different categories, we are not America where there is a provision that only one born in the United States can be chosen for the president of the country. Therefore, with such provisions, he can neither be elected to the Assembly nor to other positions. Therefore, it is just another confirmation of the poorly designed law, i.e. the intention behind it. It's also said here that people with deprived business skills here want to be given the right to vote. If I'm not mistaken somewhere, it's mentioned that 18 thousand are such persons. It's a clear thing with different categories. Therefore, not everyone goes into this, which could be an election where all of them should be denied their right to vote. But obviously as long as we want to close the manipulation, I said there's no one to avoid irregularities, but on the other hand, and this way we're going to open up the manipulations that we're going to discuss for the next few years. Therefore, in this sense, this law should be developed and opened to those processes and trends that exist in Europe and the EU since I say these technical means because there is no reason to go personally to the DKP, to report actively as active registration is called. Therefore, when we already have a digital signature, something that is valid in a number of other activities to ensure that it is going towards solutions that will also provide a correspondence electronic vote. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25808	I thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in the first episode of coming to the polling post as Mr Plenkovic said competent, or member of the election board will tell the citizen of the Republic of Croatia you failed to register actively but you can do so now. So, the next sentence of a DKP officer will be you have not been actively registered yet, but you can do it now and you can vote. Not only that, they'll be able to tell him even though you have a passport marked, say, one state, and you've come to another embassy, which wasn't the case so far, you'll still be able to vote. As regards the delivery, which is therefore on page 27 of the final proposal of the law, it reads in the last sentence: "The procedure for active registration has been maximum simplified and the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act apply to the submission of the application." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The General Administrative Procedure Act states: "The submissions to a public-legal body may be made directly in writing, sent by mail, in the form of an electronic document expressed in accordance with the law or verbally declared in the minutes." Article 75 also states: "Publishing bodies and parties and other persons participating in the procedure may communicate in electronic form. The submissions submitted in electronic form by electronic signature under the law will be deemed to be signed by hand.", etc. Therefore, Articles 71 and 75 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on general administrative procedure if I interpreted it correctly, and I hope I did. As for the exercise of voting rights to persons who have been returned to voting rights. So in this law, we only find that they are in the voters list if the conditions are met. And the election law or guidelines of the State Election Commission will regulate in more detail how they exercise their electoral right. So, I wouldn't interfere with this law, but we've already discussed it, and so we've already seen what problems, which problems in this case should be solved, but I believe that those in charge of the election and with our assistance will be able to solve it. The sentence I said, I don't know, I gave it exactly in the same way that Agent Tudjman said, but I said that the diaspora issue was over for us, I was talking about the vote, so the way the vote goes and the number of MPs, and it's true that there were disagreements, we're companies for the elections in 2007, it was one of the electoral slogans, and we didn't get the elections. I don't think that's why we lost them. But the fact therefore, that we have never hidden our position or not, but at the time when we and the representatives of the then ruling majority of 2010. On this issue, we simply think that for a long time it has been resolved and three MPs who will choose the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia will be in the Croatian Parliament and together with us all who have been chosen by this or that form either in the 12th constituency, either in the 10th or as the electoral system will participate and the voice of that part of Croatian citizens will be heard and there will be no more need on our part at least that debate and these arguments will be repeated. As far as perception is concerned, then, the basis is in any case in the citizens' confidence in the records. And if something doesn't make sense, then citizens don't doubt the records but the whole process. These numbers, after the adoption of this law, will increase citizens' confidence in the records, but I agree with what Mrs. Kosor said, which is that anyone who has the right to vote must achieve it. No one who doesn't have the right to vote should have it. Whether the solutions in the Housing Act are the ones that will guarantee this second and whether they will be applied by guaranteeing this second one will show practice. I think Agent Lovrin spoke within a year. It is therefore a period of one year in which a person’s residence will be checked out, including those whose addresses are on non-existent addresses, bb., will be checked out for those whose identity card has expired for more than 15 days or who have never submitted an application for an identity card. From the point of view of citizens' rights, it's a good deadline, from the point of view of the voter list, it would be better if he were a little shorter. That's right. So that's where we get along. However, we also believe that by applying other institutes of this law to those citizens whose residence information is not correct, we will still succeed, and therefore we will bring that part, if so accurate and I will say the word correct, correct state of mind, that there is a better word. As far as the other provisions of this law are concerned, no one in the debate may have mentioned the biggest change for citizens who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, which is that one part of them will have to either watch out for when their ID is worth it or that on the day of the election they will have to go for confirmation. Also, the Croatians outside Croatia are denied IDs. So they by law and don't have the right to IDs if they don't have a residence, that's a condition to have a ID card is a residence. As far as the Housing Act is concerned, we perform with a completely different logic. So if you check out persons who are not in Croatia and report and therefore those who do not have residence in Croatia then that increases the number of those outside of Croatia, and not to reduce them, it simply does not stand logically. All right. Of course, most of the debates especially those more passionate still referred to yesterday's law. The task of the administration and therefore those who arrange a list of voters to correctly copy the residence records to deploy people based on addresses to polling stations, so that they know where to exercise voting rights, that electoral commissions write down so many polling stations that this right is easily achieved and asked by MP Babic. So, as a rule, on the islands, a single polling station, addresses generally do not determine the polling place and what Agent Mlakar spoke about the town of Hvar, according to our request, the State Geodetic Authority should otherwise give to everyone by February 1st, so who didn't bring streets and numbers, so we were given temporary numbers that would actually be the basis for making a correct register of voters. I believe that this law will allow us, very soon, to introduce these more advanced instruments to our legislation, and then these concerns today concerning the number of citizens outside the Republic of Croatia who will vote to be unfounded, and otherwise I would sincerely like the political parties in Croatia to make sure that even more people vote outside the Republic because it is a sign that the only dominant party has won the competition and that they will have to make a little more effort to get more of its voters into elections, but these are just my wishes, I am aware of the reality and that these three will continue to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25810	We've registered three replicas. First call from a colleague, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25811	Here's Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In connection with all these disputes, I am sorry that there are no SDSS representatives but I will now quote me on the phone of the Serbian People's Party President Mr. Milan Rodic at the HDSSB club, and I believe that he is now watching this transfer and asked that we pass on the following that such a legal solution is interpreted in the ranks of the Serbian People's Party as "the favor of Mr. Milanovic to a man for all time, Mr. Milorad Pupovac, who is not interested in the fate of Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality in the Republic of Serbia but exclusively their voices". And Mr. Milan Rodic says that on his behalf, we, on behalf of the HDSSB club, express their position that they too agree that anyone who wants to vote should vote in diplomatic and consular representations in the Republic of Serbia. So much for who represents the interests of all Croatian citizens, regardless of what nationality they are. And you have one more question about your exposure. I would ask you, as I did in one line, to answer me how you interpret Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which speaks in paragraph 3. "Certain Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia are exercising electoral rights at polling stations in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in a foreign country where they reside without exception", all Croatian citizens who do not therefore have exceptions. Isn't this a legal solution contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25812	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25813	So first, the largest number of votes of Serbian nationalities in the Republic of Croatia received our coalition and our party and no one has the right nor the legitimacy to represent these citizens better, I believe from the SDP and the Kukuriku coalition. That I believe, yes, so I believe it shows certain statistics. And I don't know exactly what Mr. Rodic means when he speaks for the SNS through you because I think it's more about the Law than yesterday, not the law from today. That's how I interpret it, but I can check with Mr. Rodic because I like to communicate with everyone for good suggestions. As regards the interpretation of Article 45(3), The constitution I think is firstly ill written, that is the first thing I think because the Croatian Law on residence does not know a residence outside the Republic of Croatia at all. So here are the citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, and then in the last sentence in which they speak in the country where they reside, without any Croatian regulation regulating which is the institution of residence outside the Republic of Croatia. It's the first thing that doesn't make sense, but good. So then I guess they vote where they're given an address in their passport or where they're actively registered because it's not safe to get where they registered at that time and stay. So that's how you would interpret it. But this group of citizens you're talking about are not Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia because these citizens have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, only where they do not have a residence. Yeah. So that article of the Constitution just like you said it and I interpret it. So this is the story of yesterday's law, not the law of today. We're just going to list people in the residence, and that was the debate yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25814	Thank you. Here's the next replica of Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25815	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said that it would not happen for a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who does not have a residence in Croatia and are subject to an active registration on the obligation of active registration that they will not be able to arrive on the day of the election and that someone in the DKP tells them that they cannot vote because they have not applied for an active registration procedure. I may have skipped something, but this law says as you suggest "the active registration procedure is carried out immediately after the election is called, or the national referendum, and no later than the deadline laid down in Article 24(1), that means 10 days before the elections are held". This Regulation shall enter It says "at the expiry of the deadline for active voter registration, a list of actively registered Croatian citizens who do not have a residence and is delivered to countries and consular areas for which voters are actively registered or place of active registration in the Republic of Croatia" etc. that list shall be submitted to the Election Commission. And if there's an article out there somewhere that I haven't seen yet, then I'm asking why you're even introducing an active registration? So if anyone who does not register within this prescribed period by law can still come to an election post and say I would vote but have not registered, so if 100% of our citizens abroad can exercise their electoral right, then why even introduce an active registration procedure if he is not binding.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25816	Thank you. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25817	... about fixing records, getting accurate data, getting real data and what I explicitly said about reducing the number of voters needed for the referendum as we regulate it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're not going to have 4 and 150 grand, we're going to have as many as it's registered. But now let's go back to what you asked first. Therefore, Article 57(1) and (3) apply to nationals who have not been actively registered and who are not included in the list of voters and then prove their right in the manner provided for in Article 57(3), therefore to voters who are not registered in the voter register, who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, issue diplomatic and consular representations. Certificates shall be issued on the basis of the prior consent to issue a voter's certificate for enrolment in the register of voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. So those citizens who have not actively registered come to the polls will be able to vote on the basis of Article 57(3), and that is only proof that we do not want anyone to be deprived of the voting right, that we want settled records and that one day we can also introduce a correspondence vote. And I have one more sentence to say, on your basic presentation, I didn't replicate it, if I quote you correctly, you said that both sides talk about different types of buses, etc. I argue that neither those who come by cars, buses or anyone who comes across the border this side does not support it and these are not voters who vote for our coalition. That's all I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25818	Thank you. And the last replica, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25819	Two elements to the Minister's presentation. The first class is what my colleague Lovrin used to say. Voting certificates have existed until now when there was no active voter registration institute. They were also issued in the procedure of previous registration abroad. So it's not any new thing you're saying here. If you are now telling us that you are introducing an active voter registration institute to update the records and reduce the required number for a positive outcome of a referendum. That's what you just said, Minister, but I have to admit it's bizarre. You have an election moment which, from the day of the election, takes just a few days until this deadline in Article 24, you will order people in diplomatic missions and consular offices to use it as a potential contribution to the number of voters for the results of the referendum. And why should you not throw a burden on citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia make a systematic effort that should not be repeated before each election, the president, the Croatian Parliament, the European Parliament, the referendum, but to update the voter list within a time frame. Why diplomatic missions would have to do this within that trap, explain to me which one was at war, why they couldn't do it as informally with the consent of the DIP and work at the previous registration so far months in advance, to make their job easier. I think that's what people who haven't actually seen how and what it means to organise a mission in diplomatic missions and consular offices. elections. And you appealed that you wanted more people to come out. Well, thanks to you, voting is exclusively in diplomatic missions and consular offices, so I have to admit that this appeal seems a little absurd to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25820	Thank you. The reply to the replica, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25821	I'll just repeat what I said in the final presentation, which is that I hope and want to do the next election in XI. the election unit is more voters because it is a sign that the party that has won the competition and that it has made an effort to get out more voters and this law will not have a positive or negative impact on it. The extent to come out has already been resolved by the constitutional changes in 2010. If we can fix it in a way that introduces a letter vote, we can agree on it, we are prepared to do so, and everything about the rest leaves a political struggle in a campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25822	I thank you, too. This concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25823	Final Proposals of the Law on the Registration of Voters, Second Reading, CZ No. 171. The debate on the bill is over. The proposal for an amendment is divided on the bench. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to make a statement on the modified amendments. Minister of Management, the Honorable Arsen Bauk. Here you go. You have a list of amendments ahead of you. Amendment No. 1 Club of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25824	The amendment is not accepted. The Institute of Active Registration will contribute to a more regular list of voters and greater citizens' confidence in the electoral process.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25825	I ask the representative of the Club of Representatives of the Amendments of the Honorable Davorin Mlakar to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25826	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The few amendments we have submitted to this law are trying to fix what we hold to be the worst in this law. Therefore, I ask the Minister to give us an explanation for not accepting the amendments since it is working, so the purpose of all of our amendments is to delete the active registration because this obligation introduces different categories of voters into the Republic of Croatia and those outside. We believe that this is neither a constitutional nor a legal solution, and we ask that the minister explain it to us since we do not have any solutions for the correspondence vote that was discussed with this new institute anyway. Why the need to introduce an active registration of voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, given the fact that they will still have an obligation to go to the elections as they have so far. So no correspondence vote and a similar category of this law is foreseen, so again we suggest that our amendments be accepted and that the new active registration that is valid I repeat for a specific category of Croatian voters is deleted from this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25827	Are you asking for a vote, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25828	Yeah, we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25829	Thank you very much. Please state the proposal for an amendment to the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No 2 of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25830	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25831	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number 3 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25832	It shall not be accepted under the same reasoning as for Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25833	Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25834	Your Honor, Mr. President. I have also asked the Minister for the first amendment, the meaning is the same, to give us an explanation on why it is necessary to introduce a new Institute of Active Registration of certain voter groups, given that there is no possibility of a written vote under this law. I note that this makes discrimination between voters who are not obliged to register for each upcoming election and those who have the obligation, otherwise they will be denied the ability to vote in the upcoming elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25835	Are you asking for a vote? I would like to make a statement about the amendment to the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number four of the same club representatives. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25836	Mr President, given that in the same paragraph of the amendment, in the same paragraph of the amendment, the amendment was also submitted by Agent Ana Lovrin, the Government would accept both amendments but in the amended text, so I will read the text in which the Government would accept the amendment and the applicants would then be shown. So we suggest that Article 40(1). The final draft law on the register of voters is in the amended form of the amendment: The voters who will be present on the day of election for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the European Parliament, i.e. the state referendum, will be located outside the city or municipality in which they are resident may be temporarily entered in the city or municipality on the day of the election or State referendum. The voters who will be temporarily enrolled in the list of voters of the city or municipality where they will vote for the constituency of the constituencies to their place of residence, i.e. nationality, on the day of the elections for the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25837	I'd like a representative of the motionor, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Davorin Mlakar, to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25838	Although we have not been given the reason for the previous amendments, we are satisfied with the government's intention to accept at least this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25839	Thank you very much. Dear representative Anna Lovrin. It's about the same amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25840	I'm also satisfied with this formulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25841	Thank you very much. That means there's no need to make a statement about it. Amendment number six of Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25842	The amendment is not accepted. So we think that we've created assumptions that the list of voters is therefore being concluded in one place and that judicial protection is being achieved in one place. So far, there has been judicial protection at municipal courts in all places. We think this proposal is better and the government does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25843	I'd like the esteemed representative of Davorin Mlakar to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25844	Dear Mr. President, the meaning of the amendment is in the following. Instead of the current authorities which have confirmed the lists, or concluded the lists of voters of these amendments to the law, it is proposed that the minister responsible for the affairs of the general administration do so. In other words, the minister will be competent to conclude each list of voters of all local self-government units because I warn that lists of water voters for municipalities, or cities. First of all, we hold that it has denied judicial protection that has so far been guaranteed to those who will object to such a closed list of voters. And secondly, we believe that it is inappropriate for the head of the central government to conclude voters' lists because first there is insufficient knowledge of any errors in the conclusion of the census and all complaints that come to this. And secondly, simply if you want, there is practically no time for over 500 units to conclude their list of voters. This will also show a very serious problem for all those who will seek to protect their electoral right against the central authorities of the state administration. So far, special bodies have done so, and we believe that this solution has been much better and that this solution has guaranteed the protection of voting rights that are being violated this way. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25845	I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the respected representative Davorin Mlakar, who is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7 of Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25846	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Government accepts an amendment in a modified form which I will read the entire article, so if the Proposer agrees. Therefore, Article 50 would read: Paragraph 1. The central authority is obliged to publish on its website statistics from the final list of voters when elections are held in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the national referendum. Article 2 The Office is obliged to publish on its website statistics from the final list of voters when elections are held in individual units of local and regional (regional) self-government, i.e. carrying out a local referendum. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25847	In the name of the promoter, the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25848	We accept the proposed text of the amendment because it is a complete solution, and we have obtained the same objective of the data publicly available.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25849	Thank you very much. This means that it remains an integral part of the final draft law. And the eighth amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25850	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the proposal is for the elections and for the Croatian Parliament where all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to exercise the general right to vote, therefore also members of national minorities, to do an excerpt based on national membership for each polling post. So, of course, such a solution as it is now in the bill does not prejudge the election law solution. And at the technical implementation, it will remain, therefore, how the vote will be regulated in the polling post itself. But the position is that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their national membership in the elections for the Croatian Parliament, must be on the general electoral list and the amendments cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25851	On behalf of the board? There isn't. We need to make a statement. I ask who is in favour of the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities that the Government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 4 votes are abstentions to the Law on the register of voters in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25852	We're moving on to a concerted discussion of two laws within clubs. Meaning - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, Second Reading, PZ No. 184 - Final draft law on local elections, second reading, PZ No. 185 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the proposing representatives like to take the floor? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25853	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. So, as in the case of the first law, the Law on the Registration of Voters, as in the Law on Local Self-Government and in the Law on Local Elections in the first reading, we have conducted quite a detailed discussion, we have considered a large number of objections and proposals from MPs and a number of these remarks and proposals from MPs, and we have put them into the final text. I want to talk in the opening statement about those solutions that have been changed compared to the first reading. The first and biggest amendment is that of a referendum on the mayor's recall, mayor and mayor. Based therefore on the expressed attitude of most or almost all of the representatives' clubs, we have defined in a different way a referendum on the impeachment of the mayors, mayors, mayors and deputies in relation to the provisions so far, and on the provisions which were therefore...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25854	Excuse me, Minister. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask your attention and we can hear it. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25855	I'm trying to calm down like this. So, instead of a solution so far that a 50% voter voter has to go to the referendum now, we are now proposing that the referendum can be discussed on a proposal of 20% of the total number of voters, and that the impeachment has succeeded if the majority of voters have declared the impeachment provided that the majority is at least one third of the total number of voters enrolled in the list of unit voters. It is otherwise one of the numbers that more or less corresponds to the number of votes received by the mayoral candidate in the second round if 50% comes out and votes for it two-thirds or if it comes out a little more and votes a little less. We didn't take the number that, the number of votes that the candidate received, because that would lead to those candidates elected in the first round because they had more competition, so they got slightly less votes due to greater competition. And we think, therefore, that this institute is still high enough for mayors and mayors not to be permanently exposed to the referendum, but still that it is sufficiently feasible if there is a critical mass behind the mayor's impeachment. We have also defined judicial protection in case the competent national authority assesses that citizens' request for a referendum is not on the subject, which is in the power of the representative body. We also defined that members of the representative body, so council members, are protected from responsibility for the spoken word at sessions and opinions and voting at the meetings of the representative body. We also better defined when recalling that the impeachment applies to the executive body chosen on the basis of general voting rights rather than to the deputy elected under the special right of vote. Therefore, from the order of national minorities, i.e. members of the Croatian people in units where the constitutional law gives them the right to participate in the executive body. Based on the request of a number of MPs, we have also defined the minimum amount to be available to the mayor and the chief of staff. That's 70,000 kuna. We took the amount that the Public Procurement Act considers to be a great deal of supply, so here we have respected and there is this proposal from the MPs. As regards the election for local committee bodies, we have therefore defined that the election for local committee bodies is, therefore, the representative body adopts a general act and, of course, it is a proportionate electoral system and an appropriate application of the law governing the selection of representative bodies. I also believe that at the most recent time we must conduct a good, quality debate on local self-government at all. 'Cause there are a lot of cases where the election doesn't get around. If elections are asked that local committees have or do not have any jurisdiction. If they have jurisdiction that they have no money, etc. etc. And there are cases that the mayors simply don't question the election. We have also defined that the conditions for disbanding councils are relations and unless a referendum is called for on the basis of voter demands. Finally, we have better defined the way in which we behave, and that is that we have already been a practice, which is to enable during the mandate and change the way in which we now define how, so as to define that the decision on how to perform our duties can be changed during the term of office, and the new way of doing it starts from the first day of next month from the delivery of the change notice. The most important thing and let's just say the thing that was the biggest fight in the last debate is the procedure for not making a budget. As far as budgeting is concerned, we've foreseen two newspapers. It is one that the right to propose a decision on temporary financing other than the executive body shall also have other authorised proposings based on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the representative body. In this way, let's say that the political solution to the political conflict over the budget at the request of one of the councils or the commissioner is delayed by 3 months, so if they agree well, if they do not vote. The second is that we clearly define the right of the draftor of the budget. It is the Commissioner that, before voting on the budget itself, he has the right to withdraw the proposal. In this way, one balance is created between the two political bodies of the executive and representative if there are significant budget recommendations. And we also kept the Institute of Simultaneous Elections both for the Council and for the Commissioner if they don't bring the budget. As for the procedure for not making a budget, we could choose between four variants. One is to remain as it has been, and that is to disband the council, and to keep the chief. We think the council was brought into an unequal position and that, let's just say, the chief here was in a dominant situation. The second is to change, it's that the captain is actually leaving, and the council is staying. On the other hand, the executive authority shall be placed in one subordinate position. And there's this variant of balance not to do anything, but that means blocking the work. Because if they couldn't make a deal now it's very uncertain and in three months it's very uncertain that it will be after that. Or that this political dispute between the two political bodies elected in the direct elections should be resolved by citizens in the same elections and for this variant we have decided in this law. In addition, as regards the provisions on appointments of members and representatives of units of local self-government, the provision, as so far as the appointment decision is therefore required to be delivered to the representative body and to be published in the official list of units of local self-government, and we have left the possibility of special laws for some of the categories of institutions and institutions etc. set up a local self-government unit to allow for a different solution. Well, in that case, this is an exhibit relating to part of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. As regards the Law on Local Elections, changes in relation to first reading are as follows, so by the first foundation of the Housing Act, we changed the term permanent residence by expression of residence. Second, in order to comply with the draft Law on the Registration of Voters, the provision of Article 2(1) has also been amended in such a way as to remove the part restricting the active voting law of persons who have been deprived of the right to vote by a court ruling. The paper also presents the content of the candidacy for the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputies. Therefore, since under this law the deputy municipal mayors, mayors and mayors from the ranks of members of national minorities are elected at the same time as the municipal mayors and mayors do not need to determine the national membership of mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies. It is also complemented by Article 22 of the entry into force of paragraph 3 which has been approved by the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in the judgment of 4 May 2009 that an error in the application procedure should be corrected with the least possible damage to the application procedure. Thus, we have prescribed that, when establishing the eligible lists, the Electoral Commission will act in favour of the protection of the application procedure, i.e. the rights of the applicant of the lists and of the candidacy. As regards the content of the summary list of candidates, i.e. the order in which the candidate lists are entered in the summary list of laws, we have prescribed that the candidate lists are entered in the summary list according to the alphabetical order of the full name of the political party, i.e. two or more political parties who have proposed the candidate list, i.e. according to the alphabetical order of the last name of the candidate group of voters. In this way, we changed the original proposal whereby the candidate lists of the voter group would be at the bottom of the ballot, but they would not be like so far a block under some letter but would be distributed by the name of the bearer of the list. Also, as regards the acceptance of the candidacy on several candidate lists for the same representative body, we have prescribed a way of handling the competent Electoral Commission. We also prescribed that in the event of the candidate's death, the candidate list, when the candidate dies in a time shorter than 10 days from the election day. The deadline for the appointment of election committees has been extended and the deadline has been extended by 2 days before the elections are held, in fact, the deadline for the education of election committees has been extended and the deadline for appointment has been reduced. It has also been deleted that the identity of the voters is determined by a valid I.D. and it is prescribed that the identity of the voters is determined by an I.D. without specific emphasis that a valid correction should be carried out. There was also something about it in the previous law. The voters are registered in the Election Register and are entitled to vote on the basis of their enrolment. The need to establish the identity of a person who does not serve the right to vote but for the purpose of establishing the identity of a voter and, in that case, if the voter's committee can clearly determine that the person is not required to point out that a valid identification document has to be considered. In order to protect the serial number of the ballot in Article 60(1), a sentence has been added to which it is prescribed that a member of the electoral committee is required to take account of the fact that the serial number of ballots to be submitted to the voter has been disabled while Article 70(2) has been amended in such a way as to ensure that ballots at the polling post must be mixed So you can turn up the speaker. [[/Intruder: How about a little louder?]] These delicate provisions have already passed so I don't provoke too much. A new provision in paragraph 2 was also included in Article 60, which prescribed that the chairman of the constituency committee or of him was obliged to give the national minority constituent to the request to hand over the voting ballot for the selection of deputy municipal chief, mayor and mayor of the national minority. It is pointed out from the prescribed point of view that all voters, independently of their national membership, are included in the general list of voters. Whether or not a member of a national minority voter's right to act on that basis will be exercised or not, in that sense, declares on the exercise of the right to be heard in such a way that he can ask the electoral board to hand over a ballot for the election of the deputy municipal chief, mayor or mayor of the national minority. With regard to ensuring the protection of voter voting rights, which, due to disability, makes it difficult to access the polling post, for example, the voter cannot climb the stairs on the floor because there is no access for the person in the wheelchair and, similarly, in Article 61, a new provision has been included which regulates the exercise of the voter's right to access the polling post but is disabled due to disability. In that case, the procedure prescribed by law will be implemented. The president of the election board will appoint two members of the election board to reach the voter and allow him to vote. With regard to the list of duties incompatible with the duties of members of the representative body of the unit of local, regional self-government, the duties of the Rector and the Rector of the university and of the representative and member of the company’s management in the majority state ownership have been deleted. As regards the termination of the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputies in respect of which, due to the power of judgment, a solution has been left in the current law, which is that it is a prison sentence of more than 1 month, as prescribed by the law in force. For the purpose of precise identification of the number of voters who voted for the municipal chief, mayor and mayor, the provision of Article 93(1) has been supplemented so that it is prescribed that the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputies are elected by the majority of votes of all voters who voted according to the vote in the list of voters and the accompanying voting certificates. What we did not prescribe, and that is to deny passive voting rights, and in the light of the law, we further stressed that this law does not deprive anyone of passive voting rights. So everyone has the right to run, and as far as restrictions are concerned, the same provisions are the same as the provisions in the Laws on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and the Constitutional Court can interpret them in the same way as it did in the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament when running for some citizens who wanted to run for office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25856	I thank the ministers. We have three reported replicas. Branko Bačić came in first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it is good that you accepted a suggestion during the first reading on the possibility of recalling the executive authority in units of local or regional self-government based on the local referendum. But it seems to me that the provision requiring 20% of the total number of voters is not well affected especially for large units of local self - government. This in your Pucist or my Blato will not be relatively difficult to reach 20% of voters but in large cities not to say, for example, in Zagreb, as well as in Split, Rijeka, Osijek and other major cities, it will be very difficult to collect 20% of voters. As we have already mentioned during the morning the procedure for adopting the Constitution, amending and supplementing the Constitution in 2010, then your party and your president, now the Prime Minister, has advocated that the number of voters needed for the initiative to submit the State referendum to 5%. I don't know what this has now applied to the possible recall of the unit leaders of local or regional self-government needs 20%. I say we can accept it for smaller units of local self-government but this institute will remain inaccessible for large units of local self-government, so how did you accept the initiative that a decision on the availability of funds could be made by a single chief, or by the mayor depending on the level of the budget, so perhaps you could access here that the local self-government unit that has a large number of voters does not have 20%. There may be a smaller, smaller percentage of the total number of voters enrolled.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25858	Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here's a colleague of Buric's. I hope he's not calling the best man or anyone else. Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25859	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'd like to stress a few things about the whole process of passing this law. It should be pointed out that we welcome the HDSSB's club to the fact that when you adopt proposals and first-reading laws, and now you've consulted clubs, and that's quite all right, and I think that if we did so in many other cases when we passed other laws, then we would always come up with much more quality legal solutions than in the end very often. But here I would especially like to stress the fact that it's a good thing that you've given up on that original proposal directly, that the deputy mayors, mayors or mayors are chosen not by direct choice but by the representative body because it didn't make any sense and that's fine. It's a good thing you gave up that proposal that the mayor or the mayor or the mayor could be replaced by a representative body and he was directly elected. It is also good that it is defined who appoints the congregation and supervisory boards of societies and that it is given to the authority of the executive authority. However, a single mistake has been made again, and I believe that today will be the most reluctance, a way and a possibility to resolve directly selected executive authorities, commissioners, mayors and mayors. You had in the original proposal that this is, the reason is the budget or not to adopt a budget and you had numerous observations that a better solution is to be a referendum. You have now returned the referendum but have left the budget. If the budget is also the reason for the adoption, for the resolution of the executive authority and it will be contrary to the Constitution because the directly elected head of the units of local or regional self-government cannot change the representative body by obstructing it. So if you've already instituted a referendum then that's enough reason for those who chose directly their leader, let them change it, not both. And I mean when you respected So many suggestions would be good if this were put in as well. [[Intruder: time, fellow time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25860	And the last replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25861	Not wanting to praise the law so much, but first of all, this is a big step, and by following the media and statements of the minister, this applies to you too, Mr. President, and because you too will be referred to that law if you run for a place where you will be unencumbered to say not them and even those who may be on your list or party list or I don't know what kind of and will not be budgeting that element. It will be an element in the formal legal but entirely different background, a budget failure that will propose a directly elected head of local or regional self-government rather than the background of that resolution will be primarily a political background. You'll have not at this point that Shima wasn't, it might have been while you were mayor so the councilmen were shopping, etc., and I would beg you not to interrupt now. and there were a number of other situations where independent list councilors, individuals from political parties bought for 100,000, 50,000, 500 thousand kunas of money either from the state budget or from the budget of some other self-government, etc., etc. So I'm calling you and I'm not going to say what we talked about earlier, and I'm inviting you as Minister to step into protection above all democracy to prevent the re- and repeat political trade and crime that was happening and to realize that the only one who can replace the directly elected mayor or the leader of the local self-government is the citizens who chose him. Not 19 or 26 or 37 councilmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25862	Thank you. Time. And the answer to all the replicas, actually on behalf of the motion minister, came forward. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25863	No, no... And I can't on behalf of the proposer now that I'm on behalf of the motionor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as far as the referendum procedure is concerned, I can agree with you here, so it's logical that what you said is, it's even harder to carry out in the counties because it also requires a certain infrastructure, etc. However, we were guided by the fact that the current provision is 20% and we didn't want to change it, it's the same arbitration decision. Is 20, 15, 18 the same arbitration decision. It says 20% here because the law now says a valid 20%, so we didn't want to raise any further questions about it, but logically, it would be between 15 and 20, so that would be roughly. And on the other hand, a referendum in larger units costs a little more, and then let those who collect sign it to collect sign it. As far as gray praises are concerned in the way the law is passed, so I do, and I think that in the proposal and the differences from the first and second readings and before who can give a good idea in this law, it is doubtless any smart minister would have put it into law. In fact, this law is transgender. So we in our parties have people who are mayors who don't have a majority in the council, and we have people who are presidents of the city council with the opposite mayor. Ever meet these people they talk not from a party position but from the position they're in that moment, although everyone thinks they'll remain mayors after local elections, but that's the second part now. And therefore, this kind of public debate for this law was undoubtedly necessary, but it was ultimately necessary to make one proposal and in this part only by considering how to strike a balance between the mayor and the council decided that in the event of disagreements that would result most in the budget that, apart from the elections so far, there were no new elections, because so far there have been elections in the event that there was no budget for those who chose to verify it and the mayor also leading the same account that no one else could choose it except those who chose it. Now I think I'm over time, but another 20 seconds. The question may be raised that there will now be much more budget collapse because the mayor will collapse. But then the question can be asked whether the council has not been in a worse position so far because the mayor could blackmail them, so they're behind the fact that they didn't want to have to vote for the budget. I know. [[Intruder: Time.]] I said. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25864	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Okay. On behalf of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, Honorable Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25865	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the council. The Committee for Local Self-Government has also united this rapprochement related to these two points. The final result of the debate was 5 votes in favour and 2 votes against, with me on behalf of the Committee, and in particular in this debate on the amendment and addition of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, particularly by the chairman of the Committee, highlighted the basic objection to the Final Proposal for Laws concerning provisions which are prescribed at the same time the disbanding of the representative body and the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputies. Unless a budget is adopted within the deadline, as those provisions will cause a crisis of government or often disbandment and new elections in units of local and regional (regional) self-government. And unrelated now to the very conclusion of the board, many board members had to raise their hands even though they disagree with these provisions of the law, and this specifically refers to the prize. Well, I can do it. Well, look, I can. Even now you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, you need to raise your hand or plate of violations of the Rules of Procedure and then tell me about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm just pointing out to the minister that what's going on and even on your website.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25866	Please do not throw the speaker, the second speaker, to stick to the subject, or what is next to the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25867	I'm sticking to the subject. So on the report, here. And one and the other, I'm going to do this in particular in my debate, five votes for and two votes against have proposed that these laws be passed. And next time, we all stick together with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25868	Thank you very much. ... Do we have any other committee rapporteurs? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If not, then we can move on to the debate. The debate first appeared on behalf of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25869	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers, Mr. Vice President. Since the first reading of both laws has said a lot, it has been proposed, and I see an unusually large number of things accepted by the promoters, which is indeed a good practice, and I hope that this Ministry and this minister will continue with other laws with such access. But for the final court and the decision to vote on Friday, it depends on a proposal for a conclusion that will come to you on the bench, and it will say roughly that it is the legislator of the Legislator's Committee to draw up and publish the consolidated text of the law that it has no direct connection with the ministry, but it has with us. According to the provisions of this law, all municipalities, cities and counties are obliged to comply with these amendments with their statutes within 3 months, and then after the election most council members in municipalities, cities and counties will be new council members, somewhere the same but I think most of the new ones. And if we ask them to decide according to the law, to know the powers, relations between the representative body and the leading man of the local community, the municipality, the city and the county, and we have the parent law with 8 amendments and additions that each in its content very much changes, I don't believe that anyone without special education will be able to overcome both the statutes and the Rules of Procedure and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and 37 other laws that regulate certain powers of the representative body from pre-school education, municipal economy, roads, electro-privreds, waters, forests, so the mayor, the mayor, the mayor of the municipality and the mayor should, in addition to these two laws, know 37 more laws, and be sure to rule legally. Given the deadlines and speeds, we couldn't go, or the minister came with a new law, but amendments and additions, and now the only way to make it easier for newly elected members of the representative body to learn the law is to create a consolidated text of the law. The next dilemma set by HDSSB counterparts, the fall of the commissioner and the representative body for the sake of the budget. It was a question to me at one point, too, but I'm sure if there is an extraordinary election for the dirty trade of certain members of the representative body, blackmailing the mayor, mayor or mayor for his street or something else, that the extraordinary elections will punish those who have caused these extraordinary elections, not the one who has proposed a good budget. Let us not underestimate the intelligence of our people or the interest in spending their money in the municipality, the city and the county, the recognition of the bad mayor/migrant and I am convinced, and the more election cycles there are in Croatia in local self-government that quality will outweigh quantity, ideological disputes and punish any attempt to blackmail and trade below the table. I may be completely wrong, but I just want to believe that the citizens' interest in the local community is getting bigger and bigger that the number of choices is behind us. And now an explanation of three amendments and a few no-alignments. The citizens' approach to the local referendum and following these changes in Croatia is one of the most difficult approaches to the challenge of the local referendum when citizens seek it, harder than at the state referendum. The promoter remained at 20% of voters' signatures with the right to request a referendum which I believe is too high, but what is no good is that in the same case, in the same procedure, the right of the central state government to verify the correctness of the referendum issue and the validity of the signature. It is therefore the same procedure, the same legislative provision in the same article for 60 days. I think that this should have been separated, that the question of questioning the referendum issue finally and at national and local level must be put at the beginning of the procedure and that only when citizens have confirmed the constitutionality or legality of the referendum issue go into the collection of signatures, and that the validity, verification of the validity of the signature, which is subsequent, the final procedure in the local referendums of the sea, must not be more than 30 days. Because the same arguments that the proponent uses that 20% to some communities is an extremely small figure. As well as that 20% in the Decanovec municipality is 140 signatures. Well, I hope the state doesn't check for 140 signatures for 60 days. But the problem is that the review of the referendum issue and the validity of the signature was actually put in the same legal procedure to control the control of the Central Office. And I'm gonna keep saying it's not good. Citizens who go to collect their signatures must be sure that the referendum issue is well-set. They can initiate referendums and collect signatures and beyond that, but then it is not an official referendum procedure under the law but a civil initiative that has no formal legal effect. And with such a provision, they would not be denied the right to use the number of signatures to collect political pressure on local authorities. But when it comes to the referendum, then the rules of play and procedure must always be in favour of the citizens. And when they have collected the signatures of the state, there is only possible to verify the validity of the signature, not subsequently determine the validity of the issue. It must be in the first phase of the procedure. Citizens have 15 days to collect signatures, a country 60 days to check, a representative body 30 days to call it in and another 30 days to maintain it. Five times more time for the state than for the citizens. And for this reason, I argue that the availability of a local referendum in Croatia and with these improvements and changes, we have not yet made enough good. As regards the Institute of Change of Leaders by citizens provided for in Articles 14 and 15 and by introducing at least a third of those who vote for impeachment, I consider a good solution, acceptable which, in some ways, if they were to recalculate the results of the elections and the number of votes received corresponds if not even crossing 50% from the second round. The third thing in this law is a local self-government that the truth doesn't have to be mandatory if someone doesn't want it, but we have to make it possible and it's the first amendment. The local self-government election must be called by the representative body, not by the mayor or the mayor. Mr. Minister, if we really want to allow that where there is an interest in local self-government, then the question of calling these choices cannot be given to one man. They were the biggest opponents of local committees and the development of local self-government, and we have to give it into the hands of the representative body, regardless of what is going to be written in the statutes of the municipality or city, how we will regulate it, but the most important act is the calling of elections. The difficulty in calling, the complexity of the call, the mayors and the mayors most often led to nonsense. It must be the authority of the representative body. There's an amendment on your desk. I want to believe that you will understand me and for the third time I repeat it to you how important it is. As regards the publication of information on the results of the election referred to in Article 51(8), We offer an amendment that will clearly and unequivocally prescribe the obligation of the County Election Commission that the election results will be published by election seats for the selection of mayors of municipalities, mayors, mayors, City Council, Municipal Council, City Council and the County Assembly. From the explanation or response I will probably get will write or will be said to imply it, because there is a obligation for municipal and city election commissions to collect and deliver these data to the county. Then Article 51(8) states that the county publishes in polling stations, but I find that it is not clear enough. And I suggest that the amendment be clarified. All election results from the municipality to the county, from the leaders to the representative body, are announced by polling stations and are done by the County Election Commission. I also welcome the change in the article that regulates the termination of the term of office by law with the mayor, mayor and mayor if he is legally sentenced to prison for more than a month. But I wonder why there's been a representative body for six months? Probably because we in Parliament don't want that protection of a 6-month prison to end, so we went to analogy if we allow ourselves the right to remain parliamentarians if we are convicted for up to 6 months then we will leave it to the local self-government. We are now passing the Law on Local Self-Government and I think the same rule should apply to representative bodies as well as to the Croatian Parliament. A legally sentenced person to jail, if that's a month, can't stay in office anywhere in any institution in this country, period. Only then will we be more credible in front of the citizens that there will be no part of the term of office between us or those elected in the local elections. A penitentiary with or without those bracelets as they are called with a rehearsal, a trial bracelet. That would be best if councilmen would come to the County Assembly with rehearsal bracelets and vote. That's what I've been talking about for years. Why are we allowing in representative bodies directly from citizens of the chosen people, meanwhile sentenced to prison sentences, that their mandate remains? Why? Especially because of that, it's my problem that we haven't made a distinction between different crimes. One is a traffic violation, okay, I admit, but what about the other crimes? Article 94(4) provides that if two or more candidates are second to the number of votes, the second round of elections is to go to the one designated by the draw. The truth is, in some countries in Europe, instead of the decision of the citizens of the lot, it is up to the public to decide who will be in the second election round. Are we ready to cut between two or three who have the same number of votes? Or they would let them go all the way in the second round, as envisaged by the representative body if two had the same number of votes that then the number of members of the representative body increased and entered both with the same number of votes. So if we've played two with the representative body with the same number of votes in the representative body, then let's make an effort here to let two or three into the second election circle and then let the citizens decide. It's the third amendment that's been given. And I'm done with the next one. The candidate's approval - in an explanation of why it was not accepted is one of the best sentences I've had in this term of opportunity to read why it was not accepted. And my argument is that in the parliamentary elections, the DIP didn't ask all of us to verify the signature of acceptance of the candidacy, you probably remember that. That's the practice. It says it's a practice. Well, the promoter thinks there's going to be such a practice now that the electoral commissions won't ask for a signature, but it's the law we have to have written down. If we have carried out these parliamentary elections without any more serious objection by the participants of the election, the Election Commission and the foreign observers without the candidates being required to sign their statement before the public notary or the Electoral Commission that they accept the candidacy why we are introducing this obligation for local self-government, and in fact we wish that, by the direction of the DIP or the JIP, it is the County Election Commission or the OIP, the GIP will not actually be necessary. Ministers don't need a signature in the municipality if they shouldn't have been in the Parliament. By erasing that provision from the law and for these but also for parliamentary elections, we have created a new trust among the participants of the elections within those who draw up lists of parties and independent lists, as well as these parliamentary past elections, we have proven that this is possible without the approval of signatures. With this I would like to conclude my debate and call on you to support our proposal to conclude that the consolidated text of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government must be published in order to facilitate the current amendments to the statutes, and to make it easier for the newly elected ones at the beginning of the term of office to comply with the laws that we, on their behalf, bring to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25870	Thank you very much. Your presentation caused one replica, that distinguished representative, Marian Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25871	Branka Hrga, but good. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Lesar, and I must always report to the local officials for a purely simple reason because I come from this area and when someone says something similar in the sentence of the bad mayor and the mayor then it is, of course, a certain resistance to me because since I come from local self-government where the same furniture is both in the executive and the representative part, means we do not have any need in the dispute over the part but I must say that often the leader of local self-government or regionally thrown out of the terrible shops within council lines and various non-principle coalitions and disabling action for the sake of daily political interests as is the case in the Koprivnica-Cry County very simple example. Then it happens that the county congregation no longer works because no one has a majority in it anymore. That's what it looks like, which is why in any case this law and the debate on it are slowly heading in the direction and so was the first reading of how to replace the head of local self-government. This should by no means be the intensity of either of these two laws, but that I should agree with you, even if I add to the questions that people who have a stain, who are legally convicted of whatever crime or any other crime, must not be allowed to do so, and not only if it is only a month in prison but if they are conditional, so if they are unconditionally convicted, if the punishment is unconditional or conditional, they should not be allowed to come to the lists, they should not run, that is where I agree with you. This story about whether 20% or slightly less, it's even acceptable for me to say what you're saying, but I think one third of those who go out, decide that it's not good, that there should be at least as many numbers as there were in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25872	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25873	My colleague Hrg, I also have seven years of work in regional self-government, I wasn't the leader, this dictionary would be called the head because I was the deputy mayor. I guess that's what it'd be called then. Yeah, you're right, big evil starts when it starts trading in budgets and blackmails. I must admit that those 7 years of my experience, and for us at the time the opposition parties in Međimurje County were both HDZ and SDP, we did not have this problem seriously, about large capital projects with them as opposition parties and negotiated. The coalition is made up of people, not parties. If the coalition makes up honest people then the law a little bit one way or the other, if they make it broken as long as it's no longer the law, we'll have that problem, but then we'll offer the next solution. That the budget was not adopted by the representative body, but the leader was eliminated by 90% of local corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25874	Thank you very much. With this we would like to come to the debate on behalf of the club of representatives who will show us Mr. Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25875	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yesterday we talked about financing political parties. Today we have these two other laws, meaning the Law on Local Regional Self-Government and the Law on Local Elections. Speaking of yesterday's law, let me just say that some political options can be spent in some districts for election spending 5, 6 or more million kunas. It's not right, it's too much, it has to be kind of limited like the same time that the DORH starts working on companies of certain political parties. HDZ played a game, but the rest of them are playing, but let's let it go now. When we talk about this Law on Local Self-Government, Article 2 shall therefore refer to a referendum if the hearing has been proposed by at least one third of the members of the representative bodies, or if the opening of a referendum has been proposed by the municipal head, mayor or mayor, and if the hearing has been proposed by the majority of the councils of local committees or city halls, etc. I absolutely agree with Mr. Hrg's intervention that if someone was elected to a unit where 51% of the citizens came out, so he was chosen by 50%, if there were 6 thousand, he was elected by, say, 3,000 with one vote, that he should also be resolved by 3,000 and one citizen in the referendum. But what's also interesting when we talk about starting this referendum on municipal councils, the county councils make decisions for most of the members, I would say it might not be good. I want to believe that council members are sober enough, but no matter what, when we adopt certain legal acts by a two-thirds majority, I mean here at the Constitution, I mean here on constitutional laws, I mean here on minority laws, then, let's say, in local self-government, we should vote for a two-thirds majority, not that because of the non-principle coalitions in which we've had opportunities to listen, we simply challenge one permanent instability of local self-government because of that, too, all of them, who are at the head of local self-government and those who are driving it, but the greatest damage has the financial capacity of certain municipalities, cities, counties and citizens as a whole. Personally, I don't think there's anything like a referendum to propose to the mayor, the mayor, the mayor. I've always been to strengthen the position of representative bodies. It doesn't matter if it's municipal councils, city councils or county councils. But let's let it go now. We must somehow enable these representative bodies to rule. The clear essence of local self-government is not how to come to power but how to help citizens the next day and how to manage the capacities of individual environments, how to "manage resources and money". You keep asking questions like how many. The County of Istria participates in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Perhaps for the first time this way I can say that if the participation of the County of Istria in the GDP is about 6.5%, and Istria has about 4.5% of the population in the budget Participating here with 6-6.5% or if the budget of the Republic of Croatia is now talking about those tax revenues, penalties etc. In that part of cca 100 billion kuna means Istria is participating about 6 billion kuna. And how long is he coming back? Now there should be 48 thousand pensioners, 8 thousand people who are employed by police, education, health care, customs, state administration, judiciary, etc. Even military chaplains have ok. I absolutely don't question that, and then we have to keep in mind decentralised resources, health monitoring, welfare, and then somewhere around 4.5% of the budget, but there's still some excess of billions of kuna left. But let's let that one go now. Croatia is sure to be radically decentralisationd. It's clear that it won't happen overnight or so soon. In some cases, however, state interventions are likely to be higher in general hospitals than it has been up to now. And yet just to mention one Istrian case. Pula General Hospital has 182 million kunas of outstanding liabilities of 100 million. It's only on the waste meds that I think 70 million kunas. And it should be settled but we still can't solve it without the state budget. Secondly, Article 5 of this Law speaks of a member of a representative body. It shall not be prosecuted or liable in any long way for rumors, statements or opinions expressed and opinions held at the meetings of the representative bodies. An immunity is introduced that is wider than this representative but it is absolutely good and it should be accepted, not that the Government, for example. and today for the possibility of delinquent, opinion or that someone for free, for example, may be unpunished rather than prosecuted by a citizen for damages. I've been in particular running one dispute with one television house for four years because I said about this pay phone that almost every show can be bought. So where is it that one of you is asking for 200 thousand kuna? And what did I say? I didn't say anything that didn't stand. Of course I insist on having my litigation back because it's more than 20 grand kuna. Mirna Bosnia doesn't need anything else, but I hope it comes back. As far as Article 14 here is concerned, it is said that the municipal chief, mayor or mayor of their deputy elected together with them may be called off through the referendum. The call-off referendum can be proposed by 20% of the total number of voters in the unit seeking the impeachment of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor of their deputy elected along with him. Article 15 states that the decision to recall the municipal chief, mayor, mayor of their deputy elected together with them was made if the majority of voters who voted in the recall referendum voted on the condition that the majority was at least 1/3 of the total number of voters enrolled in the voter list in that unit. Okay. In the county, big cities, let's be honest, it's an impossible mission that could happen, but in those small municipalities with a thousand, 2,000, 3,000 residents I don't know I'm afraid we can prepare ourselves for a whole series of referendums. As regards Article 40.d, where the termination of the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor has taken place after two years of office in that unit local and regional (regional) self-government will not be called for early elections in that unit of local and regional (regional) self-government etc. but his deputy mayor, the mayor, will continue the term of office until the end of which I believe is also fine. Personally, I also find it clear that I do not insist that, as mayors, the mayors may be representatives, may be mayors, but only until 2015, and then no one in that dual dualist status should sit in Parliament and local self-government, or rather let it be made clear afterwards that everyone decides where they will be. Why am I saying that? Because it is incomparably the position of one mayor of Rijeka or Split not to speak Osijek or any other city of Pula is nevertheless stronger, stronger than any mayor in that area. As regards the Law on Local Elections, Article 8 on page 3, the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor and their deputy elected in regular or early elections shall begin on the first working day following the day of publication of the final results of the elections and shall continue until the first working day following the date of publication of the final results. It's absolutely fine. Article 11, 12 discusses the number of signatures necessary for the running of members of the representative body, i.e. mayor, mayor, mayor. I think those numbers here are also appropriate. What's also good, that if in this law set up that if someone goes to one election they must be "prohibited" to run at another level. For example. It is logical that if someone is running for mayor wearing a list for the county assembly, that is, but not to say someone is running for mayor and mayor or mayor or mayor and mayor. It absolutely can't be and it's kind of clear for the first time, unequivocally regulated by these laws. As for the incompatibility of duty, I think that's an interesting suggestion. I absolutely support such a provision, as well as provisions on the representation of minorities, which in some ways must be a contitio son of Quinon of a democratic practice in the Republic of Croatia. The incompatibility of duty here lists all persons who cannot run for local units, municipalities, cities, counties, and I think it is more or less well placed. All in all, both laws are acceptable as well as that law on financing political options, but I repeat that supervision, that control should be incomparably greater than today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25876	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25877	Well, here's my dear colleague Cain, this is where these two laws connect the compatibility of the incompatible. This refers in particular to the directly elected head of local self-government and its possible shift on the basis of a budget failure. I would even agree with a series of these proposals of yours that talk about incompatibility of functions and should certainly add perhaps another provision to those who have obtained the right to retire so that they can no longer simply run for certain leading positions both in local and regional self-government and also in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25878	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25879	I don't know if you're thinking about Mr Bora Grubisic or maybe you're thinking about your party boss. I think that the one who has exercised that right should in no way be the president of one parliamentary party because it simply coincides with all democratic lusts. It is probably a unique case anywhere in the world that someone convicted of Croatian justice or any war crime could be participated in the political life of a country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25880	... You've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25881	Article 216 has been injured because a series of lies have been told. The president of the HDSB is Dr. Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25882	Thank you very much. The next debate will be shared on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. [[And the hero on the chest is who?]] The first one will be the representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisanić, and after that, the distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25883	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the right of citizens to local and regional (regional) self-government and the fact that a total of 555 units of local self-government are established in the Republic of Croatia today, 429 municipalities and 126 cities and 20 units of regional self-government plus the City of Zagreb are certainly sufficient for these amendments and amendments to the law to require a wide public interest. From the month of July to the first reading, a lot of remarks were adopted. This final proposal shows that some changes have been made to this final proposal since the first reading, so we believe that the minister and his ministry did a good job when they gave the general public this problem. Anyone who has been interested in this subject for months can follow, suggest and propose. In any event, the 2007 Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government has introduced a system of direct selection of the executive body and implemented in the last local elections in May 2009. We will all agree that practice has shown a lot of problems and a lot of instability in relations between the representative and the executive body. Practice has also shown that the result of instability is precisely the ineffective functioning of the body of units of local and regional self-government and thus the poor provision of services to citizens. The current solution that the mayors, mayors and mayors are de facto immeasurable is certainly not good. Such consequences can produce significant political differences, not the adoption of the budget and certainly the important political difference between the representative and the executive body, as shown by the current legal solution, as well as the resulting practice. Where the mayor, mayor or mayor proposes as the sole proposing budget, and if they withdraw it before the vote or if the majority of the representative body does not vote the budget, and this does not happen in the first three months of temporary funding, only the representative body shall be disbanded after the current legislative solution. In any case, what needs to be taken care of, and this bill is well-traced to be so. The mayors, mayors and counties dissatisfied with the majority of the representative body are also in a position to manipulate it. We therefore support the proposal for these amendments, which seeks to address the problem of conflict of powers between the representative and the executive body and, in fact, to strike a balance in the responsibilities of both bodies regarding such important issues as budgetary adoption, which we have already highlighted the opportunity of first reading. Of course, we also support these two improvements, which are that the proposal for a temporary financing decision can also be made by the representative body and that the budget, or the draft budget, can be withdrawn before the budget vote itself. We believe that this does not play out the voter's will because, by disbanding the representative body, early elections have been carried out for that body, and the executive body has not only remained on its duty but has had the possibility of creating conditions for disbanding the representative body by avoiding budget proposals or otherwise. The interdependence of the representative and the executive body is primarily contained in their core roles. It is therefore such a provision that in the event of a failure to adopt the budget as a basic financial instrument, which is in fact a complete unit policy on who is right to decide on this by electing both the representative body and the mayor, the mayor or the mayor. What we feel is the same good in this bill is to regulate the supervision of the legality of individual irregular acts and this is for the first time the proposal puts control over individual irregular acts. There has been no such surveillance so far, and we will agree and we are all witnesses in our midst of the very frequent adoption of illegal acts, and there has been no control or control of it. We also believe that determining the number of members of the representative body, with the detailed work of the scale by which the units are classified according to the number of inhabitants and certainly better solution than the valid one which leads to inequality in the number of members of the representative body. Today, this inequality relative to the size of a single unit of local self-government is indeed great, which certainly does not need to be so. And in conclusion, we believe that the fundamental consequences of the proposed legal solutions are better and more effective functioning of the body of the unit of local and regional self-government and greater contribution to achieving citizens' rights to local, regional and regional self-government, which has been established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We also believe that the comments and proposals that were in the broad debate before the first reading of this proposal, as well as the suggestions which were between the first and second reading of the amendments and the addition of this law, have drawn up final solutions that ensure and strengthen political stability in relation to the representative and executive body, greater efficiency in the performance of the tasks of these two bodies and clearer determination of their rights, obligations and responsibilities. Therefore, the SDP club will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25884	Dear Representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25885	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I will talk about this second Law on Local Elections which is as we see today, and otherwise in the debates about first reading caused much less if I can say the dispute and much less vagueness than this previous law. And that's good, because I don't think this Law on Local Elections should, and it doesn't, prefers no political option, not a single political party. We are all in the common interest of making the Law on Local Elections as good as possible, as democratic as possible, and ultimately making local elections as democratic as possible. Because I'm saying, we're all in a position or at least when it comes to major parties that in all or in most municipalities, cities and counties we have a situation that we're somewhere in power, somewhere in opposition. Therefore, there is no reason to prefer the one in power or vice versa. And in that sense, I think that we should all look first and foremost at how to do one good law, because I say not right now to those who are in power in the local environment, or to those who are in a position because we are all both in a situation on the ground both in position and in power. First of all, it is good that this law regulates all local elections in one place, so for all levels of both municipal and urban and county. And there was also an objection that it was a little late to pass this law. I don't think it's too late, that right now is the right time to bring it to the end of this year so next year's elections can be made under this new Law on Local Elections. And the truth God, we were able to hold local elections next year and according to existing electoral legislation, but we felt that there was a need to make some improvements. And this law, regardless of what the new law is, is in fact an improvement in existing laws and existing practices and all that we saw that in practice it was not just a good idea and wanted and managed to fit into this law. First of all, I thank the Ministry for very closely following the debate in the first reading, both by committees and at the plenary session, and for giving reasons to all relevant comments and suggestions, for accepting or giving reasoned reasons why this is not accepted. And in that sense, the law is therefore which was intended to improve electoral legislation when it comes to local elections in this second reading even more successful. So, I'm going to say just some of the improvements that have not been treated at all by the problem of holding the councilman's mandate for personal reasons, which so far was not simply possible because it was not a good solution because why would it make it impossible for a councilman to put his mandate on hold for personal reasons, although not for a shorter period than 6 months, so that there would be no abuse and that no councilman would change for each session as it fits. It is also good that it is clear and loudly specified when the newly elected head of local self-government takes office, which so far has also not been clearly and accurately stated. It is good that this law also addresses elections for representatives of national minorities, etc. So a number of new solutions that are really an important improvement in relation to existing laws and existing practices. What this law does not treat, which is therefore an even lower level than the local elections, and these are elections for local self-government and there is no need, but it would certainly be necessary in due time to come to this House a bill that will in one place regulate local self-government elections in order to have this finally defined because elections for local self-government and local self-government are very important for people living in their environments. It may not be and we don't see it here in Parliament, but people in their small areas, in their housing places, it's very important what it's going to look like and who's going to represent them and how it's going to work. What caused and caused a lot of debate, and this law does not treat it, and it is good that it does not treat it about the compatibility, i.e. the incompatibility of doing this parliamentary duty by performing certain duties at the local level of executive or representative. And that is good because it is simply the Law on Local Elections that should not be treated whether those elected in the local elections can sit in the Assembly but vice versa, the Law on selecting MPs in the Assembly should determine who can sit in the Assembly rather than be determined by law if they can say so at lower levels. So in this law is a series of improvements that have been made compared to the first reading. For example, I think it is good that they are deleted when it comes to the incompatibility of the performance of council members in municipalities, cities and counties that this incompatibility has been erased, for example. for the Rector, the Vice-President, members of the Board of Commerce at the state level because it was indeed an unnecessary restriction because there was no reason that the Rector, the Rector of any university or member of the management of a state-level company could not sit in the representative body of any municipality in Croatia. It is also good that it has been changed in the second reading when the head of the local self-government units ceases, so the mayor, mayor and mayor when they are sentenced unconditionally and legally to prison sentences that this has been reduced to 1 month. So any punishment that is more than a month behind it and the resolution of the head of local self-government, and that's good and much better than it was in the previous solution for six months. Because if someone is convicted, the very fact that he's been convicted unconditionally and legally and for two months now is enough reason for someone not to perform their duty as head of the local self-government unit. All in all, therefore, this law is a good law, a law that will introduce a series of improvements in not only a legislative solution but also in practice and in the next elections that are ahead of us and the SDP club will in any case support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25886	Thank you very much. We have one replica, that distinguished representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25887	Here I am again to report to the Honorable Vice President here, Mrs Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić, you said this law will resolve ineffectiveness in the functioning of local self-government especially between local meanings of the mayor, mayor, mayor and representative bodies. Well, I don't know a lot of examples in Croatia now that it was such a problem that local self-government or regional government didn't work, that it was ineffective for these reasons. It's mostly ineffective for other reasons, that's why there's a lack of funds, a lack of decentralisation of fiscal and other things while this might be slightly less in some examples. Also, I have to say that there is no practical example that the mayor, mayor or mayor of one political trade has been sold somewhere, that he has moved somewhere else, but we have examples that people in representative bodies have passed through political trade to other political camps even if they have been selected from other lists. And I repeat this I say really from concrete examples, concrete practices and we come up with one I can even say interesting democracies because it happens there in Koprivnica-križevci County since no one has a majority in the assembly now that they have to negotiate even within the assembly so that they can bring a budget at all and that they can function and work. So these things don't stand. And I repeat again here the mayors, the mayors and the mayors are not persons who in any way manipulate the representative body, but the representative bodies do want to take over the executive powers and there is actually a point that needs to be seen and there is a way to see how everyone knows what his job is. I absolutely agree that this law offers some new solutions, some improvements, but I say let's not look in the direction of primarily changing the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. That's not a good way to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25888	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Fabiančić-Krisanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25889	Thank you very much, Vice President. I agree with what you've been saying. The first part of your replica referred to the trade of representative bodies. As far as I'm concerned, I'm from the town of Velika Gorica, which is very famous for trade in every term, at least a few trades in politics, and you remember that in the public ballots it was written from a suitcase of money, so it was in our political store that they were moving from the same pre-election coalition to a different position just to make some of their interests grow. And as for the latter, it is not possible for the mayor to manipulate that part of me to disagree with it, so I will again mention Velika Gorica in which it is just the mayor who manipulates him, who is showing his work and wanted to show him now in the rebalancing process and probably in the budget to come next week, to show him a big maniac who only grew up year after year but did not come into the situation that the city council would not adopt his budget if he did not remain only the city council or representative body would bear the sanctions of his business for all four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25890	Thank you very much. The positions of the HDZ Representatives Club will now be presented by the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here's the day, obviously, of the Department of Administration. We spent the entire afternoon on a law, and thank God again well calculated so that we would not accidentally talk about local self - government laws in direct television because it certainly does not interest people, although 20 MPs reported to talk about this subject. It means that it probably interests the most of us in parliament, the less and less the public and the less those in local self-government as far as this is concerned. I must say that here in a quick two readings of this law is similar to the law, so unfortunately, or fortunately, our views and similar appearances will be similar to that of the text of the law in a united debate, so I will not particularly refer to each one, I will try to say what is fundamental to these laws and say as we said in the first reading, that there are also a whole series of good things that have been introduced into this law and that we should welcome. The first question is for all of us, and what happened? We've heard, it's a good time to pass the law, although it's four months if you want or maybe a little more than five months until the local elections. That's what this law says. At the same time, local elections will be held, on the third Sunday of May, if I am well counting on the effect of this law, let us say that it is 5 months until the local elections are held and therefore I ask what happened because all members of the ruling coalition today have come forward in public, have received support and civil society associations saying that in the year in which elections are to be held, not calendar, but a year before the elections, election legislation does not change. We heard even in the first reading, although I would say the dubious arguments that these laws are not in fact an amendment to the electoral legislation, although one is called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and the second is the Final Proposal for the Law on Local Elections, the new Law on Local Elections, which has both old and new solutions, and all these new solutions are undoubtedly a newspaper of 365 days in which, thanks to good parliamentary practice, we should not change electoral legislation. Not only did you in the opposition say we shouldn't change it. You said it was a change of electoral legislation a year before the election of electoral engineering, a fraud, a hidden desire of the then government to trick voters because they wouldn't actually know the rules for elections then parliamentarys that would prescribe this law and it was something else entirely. It was then the Law on Election Units, which was at the time a completely legal procedure, that changed the laws for which even the Constitutional Court's decisions had been insinuated. But then you claimed that there was a good parliamentary practice that you repeatedly called upon and de facto the entire public bombed your statements that election legislation could not be changed in the last year but that elections had to be conducted according to current regulations at the time. I don't know what happened to you, it looks like you've been evaluating in your opinion, apparently, or do you really think passing a new law on local elections isn't an amendment to electoral legislation? But it's really pretty hard to believe. As you assured us of competitions or appointments by political resemblance, so you now assure us that this is transparent that this is a legal and valid solution and you forgot what you said two years ago. But unfortunately, our cry will not help to convince you that you are trying to withdraw the laws and for the next local elections we are taking according to the applicable regulations, and we will not disprove you because you have once again sacrificed general principles for individual interests. That's what I was telling you at the beginning of this government's mandate, and I'm going to repeat that to you today. You have not done the law in order to systematically resolve some issues but to satisfy the particular or individual interests that have now found their place in this law. One of them is the fact that after two years of the term of office of local executives, local elections will not be held but rather the leader, unless he has completed his mandate, will determine who will be his deputy, execute the mandate by the end, and no local elections will be held. It's one of the ways of this government, and that's what I want to say about this law. This law is once again an attempt I fear will succeed with your majority, suppressing the level of local self-government that we have managed to achieve or achieve and with considerable difficulty. One question is that you are now dealing with the mandates of the executive head of power who will be able to delineate and appoint his deputy, who will change them if their mandate ceases but will complete two years of office. I asked you in your first reading, why exactly two years? What's so important in two years that if after a year and eight months, the mandate ends, then local elections will be held, and if two years and one day goes by, then they won't, but the deputy will be appointed to serve as their executive head? You didn't have an adequate answer because there's no good answer for that question. The only good answer is that you do not want to allow voters in local self-government units that, if you have the necessary personnel and leave the post of leader they won in the elections, so that you do not test the opinion of your electoral unit or unit local self-government, you will allow it to determine the person who will be doing this job until the end. By doing so, you have violated the right to local self-government and the right of the people in that unit to choose for themselves who will be their head of executive authority. But unfortunately, it is not the only example that the government thinks that voters and people at the level of local units are unable to decide on their own rights and on matters of local importance. You are the best in this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which is now stated by law by all units depending on the number of inhabitants, or how large the composition of their representative bodies will be. And you really think that the government should be so arrogant that instead of leaving the local level to choose the number of its councilors to be governed by the law by the government. This is the right to the local self-government that you have trampled upon them and instead of a completely unnecessary solution like this, you could leave those voters within their units to determine which number of council members will have. You have now done something good, and that is that unlike the first reading, you have returned the referendum as a possibility to replace the executive head. But what we are opposed to is the fact that you have now stated that for the exchange of executive heads it is therefore necessary to vote for their shift 1/3 of the total number of voters enrolled in that unit. In our first reading, we suggested that you take the shift of the executive head in a different way. Instead of a referendum to introduce an electoral impeachment as an instrument or institute, allow voters to replace their executive head but by a number of votes over the number of votes that the leader received when he won the term of office. Or simpler, if someone has won the municipal headship's term of office with 2,500 votes to bring him down from that post, he should be a 2501 minimum voter in his unit. I don't know why the proposer thinks such a solution is bad. I don't know why the promoter thinks the executive head can replace a smaller number of voters than the number of voters who chose him. And I don't know what you mean to justify the right to local self-government if you leave this way for the replacement of a particular mayor, mayor or mayor. Or in other words, it may be clear to us as you have based individual mandates and terminations after 2 years without the need to conduct choices with examples from practice, I'm afraid that here you couldn't resist examples from practices that don't belong to you, which is the fact that you have mayors who have kidnapped themselves probably by party control and you don't have any other model to replace them from power. So if it is necessary, you will sacrifice the congregations or the councils only to get rid of those who are unblemished to you. However, it is not a democratic solution, it is not the right to local self-government as it has also been declared by the European Charter, the Croatian Constitution and our regulations. And to try these remarks of the club on several examples of the law. In Article 2 where you are talking about a referendum to be held in certain units of local self-government, you have left a special authority to the central body, this time I think to the Ministry of Administration to assess the validity of the referendum issue to be asked in these referendums. The Constitutional Court shall decide, in an analogous way, this solution to the national referendums on the referendum issue. I don't know where you found the model that at the local level the Constitutional Court can replace the Ministry of Administration, but it seems to me that you are doing a great job within the system of state authorities, that you are also neglecting the fact that there is an executive, legislative and judicial division, and that there is probably a good and objective reason why the constitutional court, rather than an executive, decides on referendum issues. As for the number of members of the representative body, we have been told that this seems to be a violation of the right to local self-government and that such power must not be taken over by the Parliament by this law, but that this right to determine the number of council members should remain a right at local level. You also introduced Article 11, which is the consequence of what you did with the executive heads, you are now those deputies who will act after two years have declared the executive bodies simply because they were not so far. They served as deputies, and they competed in the election. They, since they were competing for deputies, were conceived as persons who could temporarily replace the leader if he was absent or prevented from performing his duty, but were not then imagined to be the heads of the executive body who would become mayors, mayors, or mayors. Unfortunately, you kept that solution the way you had in your first reading. In addition, Article 13 where you have introduced a special law on which you speak when the head of the executive authority ceases to act precisely because the current law did not allow your mandate to stop for the reasons you had in some examples of this government and other leaders such as the mayor of Koprivnica who answered his deputy to change him by the end of the term of office, and he went to a place that was not at all incompatible with the behaviour of the mayoral office at least according to the positive regulations that were then in place. Now you're bringing in something to justify a case like that. In view of this, I would suggest just a little further clarification. In Article 24, you say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will conduct, through a special institution, the permanent training of local officials and officials in cooperation with national associations of local and regional self-government units. I don't think it's the happiest term in this law, and I'm going to remind you that we have an established state school that should educate both civil servants and officials and officials in local self-government so that they can respond to growing demands for the quality of their jobs. Unfortunately, it seems to me that you have also reduced the activity of the state school to, I would say, low branches and if it is not fully operational, it seems to me that it is also seen in the 2013 Budget, which is one of the institutions that should especially in these last months of accession to the European Union have done a lot on the education of all people in order to be able to carry out their jobs adequately and in quality. What we were saying in our first reading on the fact that the mayor's term of office ends at the same time as the termination of the representative body's mandate unless the budget is passed, these reasons remain today. It seems to me that you should have provided for the termination of the mayor's office, the mayor or the mayor's office and other reasons. One reason is the fact that a single leader often breaks the law, and that the instrument may not have been so far, or the referendum will be the way in which such a leader will be able to lose his seat. However, I warn you of the case you had in practice, a representative body can work very legally, and an illegal mayor, of course it can be vice versa. In that case, it is illogical to disband a representative body which has alerted and a central authority that oversees their work on illegal conduct and that the result is to be a resolution of the representative body. It's a pretty pointless provision. Those who warn you of illegalities in someone's work as a consequence will experience their disbandment and new elections. We therefore plead that when this law is put to the vote in the House, you should provide for other possibilities, i.e. the reasons for ending the mayor's term of office, as well as to discuss the issue of the simultaneous termination of the mandate and of the representative body and of the executive authority. I see that our proposal to consider the way the government's executive government heads are elected so far has not been accepted. We assume that both these anomalies or problems in the work of the executive and representative bodies will show the quality of these solutions or possibly the benefits of a different solution to the functioning of the executive authority. And in the end, all of this is, in fact, an unnecessary implication of our views because we believe and hold that it would be correct on your part, and especially given your opinion expressed many times by most of the representatives of this government that four months before the election you do not change the electoral legislation, but that you withdraw this law from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25892	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25893	I don't know if I have to say HDZ will be against these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25894	Your exposure caused five replicas. Earlier, however, respected Minister Arsen Bauk will also respond to this earlier. However, just to point out that 16.00 hours are past the time to report individual exposures, so we would now turn to replicas in turn. The first is the respected representative of Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25895	Thank you very much, Vice President Reiner. Comrade Mlakar, you have once more pointed out in your presentation and... that changing election laws this close to holding local elections, which is therefore the third week of May next year is not even in line with good practice, and is at least in line with the rhetoric of the ruling coalition at the time of its opposition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, one other reading I think is being imposed and I was actually expecting the minister to give us one analysis of the impact of the system we currently have, i.e. the direct election of the mayor and the mayor in relation to the selection of representative bodies in view of the electoral system that existed earlier. It would be good to analyse the implications of this system for Croatian democracy, for the functioning of local and regional self-government units, for the implications it has at local level. We are now dealing with topics how the referendum changes the will of voters at local level in case the mayor no longer or the mayor enjoys support, rather than analysing whether the system is good, whether it is for political parties, for the subsidiarity system. So local authorities need to solve those problems that are closest to citizens. Local representative bodies are not the Croatian Parliament. They are dealing with some other specific topics, and perhaps this is the issue that we should have discussed in the context of these two laws that are before us today because the consequences of this system are very diverse depending on the cities in the Republic of Croatia and on the municipalities where the problems have arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25896	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25897	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Plenkovic, I was saying this especially with a greater emphasis in first reading. What was even a proposal to consider then the Justice Committee, to see whether this principle when the executive head is also elected directly to the elections and the representative body is best given that there are problems in both models, but I would say in the total number of units that this is a relatively small percentage. What's more important is what the ministry, or the government, doesn't want to hear. The European Charter of Local Self-Government as well as the Croatian Constitution says that the right to local self-government is exercised through representative bodies and there is no extension of that right and to the heads of the executive authority. And that is why we said that if you want full rights to local self-government to be exercised in municipal, city councils, or county assemblies, and that they will fully comply with the European Charter if their composition will form a headship to make such a principle suffer from the problem. That is quite true, but nothing less than a problem when you have the head of the executive authority elected in the direct elections a question that is better. We tried both. I'm afraid the bigger problem in the body's work is when the head of the executive authority elected in the election doesn't fit his representative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25898	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Mlakar, Ministry of Administration is a central state body which is obliged to worry about the legality of acts of the unit of local, or regional self-government. In fact, in the current law of Article 79, the second paragraph states that the leaders of units of local or regional self-government are obliged to deliver to the Ministry general acts adopted by the representative body, including the budget. And now, the Ministry of Administration, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, proposes that this Parliament be disbanded by a representative body or called off by the head of a unit of local, or regional self-government if it does not adopt a budget within the time limit prescribed by law. I am surprised that this same ministry, which is responsible for law enforcement in units of local self-government, is ready to recall the mayor, or mayor, if it proposes a budget in accordance with the law and in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the same government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. That's one thing. And the other thing, I also find it very strange, is that the government is ready to continue the term of office after two years justifying that we are not entering unnecessary costs of local elections, and is ready to disband the representative body in the last year and recall the head of the unit of local, or regional self-government when it works and by law. I think that in a certain way it seems to me that the government has not celebrated with such a law. And I think it is necessary, on the one hand, to amend this provision which allows for the recall of the unit leader of local, or regional self-government if he acts in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25900	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25901	Comrade Bačić you are absolutely right that this law is illogical in some of its provisions it is clear to us, but unfortunately the Government has this problem that not all units of local self-government and even executive heads are probably chosen according to their model. So instead of providing a chance for the local self-government to repeat the mistake and select the representative body and the executive heads who are not at the will of the parliamentary majority or the ruling party, then it is a simpler solution to disband them as many times as it takes to finally reach those leaders and those councils that suit them. The problem is the City of Zagreb, which I did not want to particularly apostrophe but is an eclectic example of how the SDP party has been struggling for years and finds no way to win everything that it wants to win in the City of Zagreb, so maybe it is a way to disband both the representative body and the executive head and try to find a better solution in the new elections than the current one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25902	Thank you very much. The next one came from a respected representative, Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25903	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Mr. Mlakar, you noticed well in the part where you said that the famous law that was passed at the 12th month named after Mr. Komadini lex Komadina actually violated the values of the direct choice and it stands. Because the fact is, in one ministerial position, the SDP managed to spend almost 50% of its mayors. And since some still have aspirations to fill that place, it's possible it could be even more, we heard. But I'm troubled by something else, and it's a situation that emerged under that law and I don't know how legal it is and we can't hear the answer if it's really legal. And as for the mayor of the town of Koprivnica, who is not a state official under the Law on State Officials, he became the director of a public firm owned by the state, and his deputy mayor came to his place under the same law, and this one did not go to the state's office as I understand it. Maybe I'm wrong, but we don't know if it's legal. I think it's illegal, that it's illegal and that the law has been misused. And my second observation is this fact that after two years, it means the term lasts 1460 days, you after 731 days spent in your place you can leave, there's no choice. And then you're left with 729 to go, there's no choice. If you leave 729 days then there's a choice. We put everything in 24 hours or 48 hours, irrelevant. I don't think it's a contribution to the development of local democracy. It would've been fairer if we'd pulled it apart for three years, if the last year had been left with no choice, and everything would have been legal. This is clear that we have also led the future parliamentary elections which are in 2015 and the transition to 2016 and the preparation of the terrain for some future times. I hope you don't get that as an opportunity to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25904	Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica of the respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25905	Well, dear fellow Boric, I must correct you in one piece. Therefore, there is an example that did not provide for a law that should have been applied to the head of the executive authority of one city go to the head of the administration but not to the public but to the company that is not even in the majority ownership of the state. So he could go to that company or some 15th but he got the possibility, although the law does not assume it, we might hear some argument that it was settled by the Law on the handover of authorities or on the prevention of conflicts of interest, he went to a company that was not state-owned which was not an obstacle to continue to do his job but probably liked it more. He appointed his deputy as mayor until the end of his term without the possibility of an election where the city's citizens might react differently when they see how it is done. But from this practice so far, we see that the government does not have to work very legally, nor that they are very concerned about what is written in each law when it comes to individual interest. You spoke of individual interests affecting the amendments of the law and of the mayors who became ministers and mayors, for example, who became deputy ministers, so they also ordered their colleagues to change them by the end of the term of office that actually stopped them. So they set a man to change him in a mandate that they no longer have. It's a special story, but it would probably take us a long way. It's important that the government doesn't care too much about this because it doesn't matter to her.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25906	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25907	Dear colleague, as far as I can tell, I'm going to have to patent some of my statements in the House, especially what was related to the so-called. Comadina's law. And there's probably going to be a change, it won't be for two years anymore, what if there are early parliamentary elections, then we're going to go to law-amending and it's going to be after the year that the law can be applied. But you mentioned a referendum, a good thing that he returned to the law as one possibility of changing the head of local and regional self-government. But be assured with such a complicated law, we will not have a single referendum because in the first month of 2014, in many units of local self-government where there are no solid stable coalitions will be early elections that will likely be repeated year after year, and so until the regular local elections in 2017 we will have 8 choices in local self-government units. I'm going to talk about this a little bit more on behalf of the HDSB's Club of Representatives, but in any case I support this part that applies that we really shouldn't have gone to such major changes not in the year before the elections but five and a half months before the elections by bringing the general justice of these local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25908	Replication response, Comrade Mlakar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25909	The replica is not on these five and a half months because it's less, the replica is on something else that you spoke of the referendum as a possibility of pleading to the citizens. It is in some ways less and less important what citizens think when power will decide the government. That's why this law is wrong, and by ruling it they're trying to defend it. They are trying to defend the fact that in this case, the Ministry will just assess the validity of the referendum issue. I was talking about that for a state referendum that's the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. And can you imagine the fact that in some local self-government unit where you would happen to be mayor of the SDP and that you're going to change it to a referendum and ask yourself if you're in favour of changing mayors and the Ministry of Administration can answer that there's no valid question, and then there's no referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25910	And the last replica, Bozidar Kalmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25911	If a colleague, Mlakar, this is a particular problem since the Constitutional Court decides when it comes to parliamentary elections, then it would be good if when local elections are decided by the Constitutional Court, not by the ministry, because the ministry can then be biased in assessing the issue. But I wanted to replicate something else. So, the direct choice is the highlight of democracy, and at least there are no dilemmas about me, no noises. If citizens want and choose a leader by direct choice either the municipality or the city or the county as their leader, then it is the highlight of democracy regardless of what it is that we have often heard that local leaders are like this. You go ahead and win the election, and then he says the local leaders... So there are no choirs here, but the relationship to local self-government is also the lacmus paper of every democracy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so when we passed those laws, this law on direct choice seemed to me that there was more or less consensus here in this assembly and that was a step forward with all the difficulties that arise but was one step ahead of what was. Now this so that after two years you can nominate the mayor, the mayor or the mayor from the deputy ranks can be named without a choice, it's a step back. Why is it a step back? Because they're allowed here, and forgive me this one can really be then and some plans to say so to the candidate for the election because it doesn't matter being first or being a deputy. The citizens look at the first, look at the deputies, but look primarily at the first, because if this deputy could be the first, then this first one would not be the mayor's candidate but would be the last candidate for mayor, mayor or mayor of the municipality. So, you can calculate that I'm not going to say that it can be... /Intruder: time is co-worker./... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And maybe that's exactly why after two years. Too bad this law has good solutions, Mr. Minister, I don't think you need this, logically and normally it would be if the mayor left for this reason or for that reason or for the mayor or the mayor of the municipality of a new election and almost That's the only thing that's fair to the citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25912	We don't have a reply to the replica. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25913	Now, I'm going to start with one of these so-called socialist ideologys. This isn't a step forward, this may be a step forward, but these are four back. Not a step back, but four back. The basis of the development of the Republic of Croatia is certainly the development of local and regional self-government. I would not call it the highlight of democracy whether and at the peak of democracy in that former law there were gaps but certainly one big step in the electoral process or the electoral process was a direct choice of local and regional self-government leaders on the trail above all European achievements of democracy. And for the first time, citizens chose the name and last name of the mayor who had two deputies. Miss that former or chief with one deputy or mayor with two or three deputies, etc. all depends on what agreements have been signed and on the national composition of the population. So that is one European achievement that has had its shortcomings. One of the major shortcomings in the former law was that the local self-government leader was directly elected to the representative body, so the citizens who chose him did not have to propose at all a basic, basic, financial but also political document called the local self-government units' budget. No sanctions were imposed on the head of local self-government, but was disbanded by law because they had nothing to vote on by local and regional self-government representatives. There were only two examples in the Republic where it happened. Just two examples. So, anywhere, local and regional self-government leaders did not use that legal option, nor did they use the option that affected above all the inability to hold a referendum not only locally but also at the state level, since the number of 50%+1 registered voters could not be achieved from only 4 as far as I know the referendum was called, none of them succeeded in changing local self-government leaders but not just for this reason that a sufficient number of voters had not come out but also what voters probably had a different understanding of the work of local self-government leaders. It is positive that this debate opened in the 7th month, and I said in my first reading discussion that it is not at all a problem that this debate was opened in the middle of the 7th month when many were on vacations, but above all I think there was enough time to discuss one with all the proposals, remarks like this one complex and above all the law on which the future depends, I would say the future of democracy in the Republic. So a number of positive things have brought this proposal into view and the debate that was led in the Assembly is the return of the referendum and the return of the citizens' ability to make it possible. I can agree that it is sufficient in the name of the club that this number of 1/3 of all voters enrolled in a single unit of local or regional self-government is sufficient, regardless of having different opinions, it is also good that the unification of the number of council members in local and regional self-government given the number of local and regional self-government residents, the decision to carry out therefore the possibility that the local self-government and deputy head of law will decide whether the duty is primarily meant by the financial meaning of professional or volunteering, is a good and positive thing, regardless of what many citizens' initiatives think is the only and responsible under the law of local self-government, etc. But this law brings along all these positive things with this one I would say the synergy of positivity to bring as from the clear sky a complete negativity which this law throws away these 4 steps backwards together and with this law on local elections together with all this package of laws that are related to these local elections is primarily Article 85 and practically incompatible incompatibility incompatible. So on the one hand, you have a directly elected leader of local self-government chosen by citizens with a direct name and name. The leader or the candidate does not even need to have political party markings on him, he does not need to have political options. The second thing is that he has to collect a number of votes in order to run. On the other hand, you have the indirectly elected councilors of local and regional self-government who, especially if in these local and regional self-governments, have a close relationship between the position and the opposition, that I do not say that the head of local self-government in these congregations and councils does not have to have any councilman who belongs to that political option, nor is he a member of any political option, then very quickly we have what is not well defined by this law and which, at the end of the day, represents a constitutional provision that the elected leader can change directly in the councils and congregations of local and regional self-government, in view of the will of individual councilors. In this way, in politics, local and regional self-government is regained at a large door and there is precisely a great responsibility of the promoter, returning political trade, returning what we had until 2009 when many council members were bought for cars, for certain amounts from the budget, for stopping court proceedings, for hiring relatives, wives, daughters, sons, etc. and this is a fact which was a practice not only in local self-government, there have been some cases at other levels of government but this was precisely visible in local self-government where certain projects, certain promises made for transitions financed from the state budget, etc., etc. And that's exactly what this Parliament, these MPs, must prevent. And this is not an appeal from the HDSSB club, this is a request to all of you parliamentary deputies to understand that here in your raise-up your hand cannot play the most important role of party discipline or as the party or party chief has set it. Because speaking with many MPs, this is exactly the stumbling block that he is likely to have to swallow dumplings in his throat and raise his hand for such a single solution that does not correspond to either those who run or those who will be elected because you go out to the voters by name and last name. You promise your program, after the election, you put yourself in a position to buy, you have to cheat, you have to deal with even criminal activities so that you can accomplish what you are and not everything you promised voters and that's the biggest problem. If the applicant, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry do not accept the HDSSB amendment after Friday's vote, we will also go to a constitutional suit because it has all the elements to consider such a decision by the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, this law precisely because it is adopted 5.5 months before the local elections should not be the cornerstone of voting in the Croatian Parliament but rather the subject of agreement by all political parties in the Croatian Parliament because the interest of all must be the development of democracy, not political trade, not corruption, not crime. Another thing that's tied up and not good, which means the fraud of those who chose you, means even the fraud of those who eventually go to certain coalitions. It is a provision that after 2 years and 1 days if more force and incompatible duties are performed, elections should not be discussed, and elections should be called to go to the candidate who is therefore the first on the list, i.e. the first deputy. This means in a coalition sense, here I will use perhaps this picture from Zagreb if certain structures in the party of confirmation of my friend Bernardić read,... will not and if it is possibly proposed after 2 years and 1 day so that the mayor of Zagreb could be from Labourist, unless this relationship and the candidate for the mayor of Zagreb is changed. Which then is this second deputy, so the deputy who was also elected on the list along with the mayor or the mayor. So if we define in advance the first deputy on the list, Mr. Jelusic, you have experience with Bandic, his deputy, which means this second deputy. If it's just solving coalition relations, so we're going to give him a little salary, he's going to live this nice. Otherwise, under the law, deputies only replace the mayor when he powers them to do so, so for 2 years they don't have to do anything. If you have a mayor who does not want to authorise any deputy for any kind of job to work in the local self-government unit... the mayor, it refers to the mayors and mayors, so they neatly if they are determined to professionally carry out that activity of their deputies, receive their salary and have nothing to do because the mayor has not authorized them to do so. Now that mayor after two years and one days, I'm saying what can happen in practice because I'm 12 years mayor, I'm not six months or nine months minister. This second deputy mayor already knows in advance because the second on the list he will not be the one to change after 2 years and 1 days but if that second deputy dies then there will be new elections, he will receive a 4-year fine salary and it is not foolish to do so voluntarily but will receive wages, will not be responsible for anything and will already be on the list of ficus deputy mayors. He'll probably get a cell phone, he'll have a right to drink coffee, drive a service car, and that's it. What is the purpose of such a determination and such a law? Here's where we solved Komadina, we solved Antesic. Who else have we solved? So you want to change ministers more? We've solved Jacob's. Or you're thinking of changing Jacob's name. I don't know what it's about, which is why we're passing laws if we've already solved the problem of staffing in the government of the Republic of Croatia and in the ministries. So now we're leaving another possibility that's tied to it. Or perhaps Mr. President wants to put you somewhere past the Croatian Parliament. Maybe in executive power, then you'll vote for one of these laws. So, attention should be paid to certain, indeed things that this law does not bring well, Mr. Minister. Don't bring what the will of the citizens brings. The will of citizens is to choose Zoran Vinkovic as mayor of Djakov and that will be the will of the citizens. The will of citizens is not the will of the SDP that may have two or three councilmen. He won't have ten more, just like Vinkovic led them. That's for sure, but he'll have two. But when they're associated with others, they might be 9, because HDSSB's going to be 10. But I'm not saying it for Giakov. I speak for all units of local and regional self-government, because the principle of direct choice, the principle of will of citizens cannot change 19, 21, 35 or 45 councilmen who are directly elected, which party or party can change at any time. And we'll go back to what was going on before the list holder was the mayor's candidate, so when the council got together, then the party said you couldn't, you weren't exactly like him, there'd be someone else. It was happening the same way. For example, the case of the parish. I have a lot of experience in politics, so I know what's going on and what can happen if Parliament accepts one and don't be offended by this law has positive steps. But with this provision he becomes the law of Freinkeistin. Yeah, that's how Dr. Freinkenstein created the monster. And that is this law, a law that prevents the direct will of citizens, the direct will in direct selection. There's another suggestion. This is because many units of local self-government are reduced to a begging stick thanks, among other things, to the grand mini tax reform and to the increase in income tax on local self-government units, to the elections for the councils of those local boards, city districts doing the same day as local elections. There will be a greater response, there will be greater representativeness and there will be fewer costs for those units of local self-government where, in such elections at the moment, it comes out somewhere about which 2 to 3% of total voters are enrolled. So we return the citizens' will to the citizens, and leave it to the legislative body to make decisions concerning the legislative body. It is not the shift of the head of local self-government, regional self-government, but rather the voting of decisions in their jurisdiction. One of the powers is to vote the budget. If the gentlemen and the ladies in those bodies don't vote the budget, they should be disbanded. Just look at the example of Germany. So much can be learned from Germany from the development of the economy to the development of democracy. This isn't the development of democracy. This is the death of democracy, of death. You nail nails or nails on a coffin where democracy lies. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]] That's how it's gonna be for you in Ivantz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25914	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic, for your concern for Ivanec. I'm just sorry I'm holding the presidency, so I can't replicate it for you. But I hope there's a chance. No, no, I can't. We continue on behalf of the SDSS club Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25915	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Here's what I'll do in a relaxed tone, and I'll just say one sentence. So it seems to me that there is hope, so today we have shown that even political relations are capable of evaluating in some way, so here is one of my parties, from my region with a Croatian omen, was at one point the spokesman of a Serbian party with a Serbian omen, which is, of course, good that we welcome it. So we're on a good path to kind of relax. But I'm telling you, it's not much of a reference to you since it's only got 2119 votes in the last election. Well, that's good. With this united debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and Local Elections, we are rounding up this business that we started a while ago. The truth that we could have done it before, the truth that we could have opened this topic six months ago, and then we would have even been in that harsh time period that we've been half-limized here. But well, I think the ministry has shown great will and great desire to shape these election models in a way that the next local elections in 19.05. next year would be conducted in a different way because here it fully agrees with colleagues who have said that the model that was in the last election cycle was a certain European achievement in terms of direct elections, etc. But it is also a fact that time has shown that this model has also been eroded, that it is necessary for it to be done in a certain part. Practice proved it. That's why I appreciate the effort, or the entire ministry's initiative to get into this business. We were able to hold this election without it, but I think the choices in this model will be better quality. I'll just say a few things about both one law and another why we chose to support it. So the SDSS Club will also support the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law on Local Elections. We had in our first reading a few suggestions to fix things. We see that in three key things have been our suggestions and our suggestions have been adopted. So, like most of us, we felt that it was necessary to return to the law a referendum as a way of broader control of the elections, or recalling leaders who were directly, so we said if they were directly elected, no one can deny voters the right to directly decide on a lack of trust, or when a certain critical mass of mistrust is created to express their dissatisfaction with that. So, through this referendum, it's been tried to bring it back. Whether it's a model, so in a technical sense whether it's going to be in the prime, whether it's going to be a common phenomenon that time is going to show, one third is not a small number in large polling bases, but it's quite a real possibility in the local environment. Therefore, the real possibility of a referendum with one-third being conducted and completed in the case of local environments. The promoter also accepted our suggestion that a certain control model should be introduced to appoint management functions in companies of local and regional self-government interest. And we see that there is an obligation to give the appointment proposal to the council, or congregations, for approval within 8 days. We think that's quite enough of some kind of control mechanism to appoint these frontal functions. We also had a dilemma according to the model that the representative body is being disbanded at the same time and the executive heads are being resolved, but this dilemma has fallen off in the meantime because we have accepted the fact that this may be the way in the future that it will need to withstand a certain test of practice, but let's now accept it and let the practice say whether this model of mutual control of the executive authority and the representative body is a need for mutual synergy and shared responsibility, so the circle of responsibility for managing and managing local self-government is a good model. Therefore, we are absolutely in favour of being and one of the ways to be controlled, to establish mutual control between the councils and between the executive heads. It was also a provision that spoke of discrimination, in some ways discrimination against the minority deputy chief, mayor or mayor through the granting of certain powers. I think the ministry has skillfully proposed some new model to avoid this phenomenon of discrimination. It was resolved by saying it would replace the chief's first deputy. So that's something that we can accept, and practice shows that functions will behave in the same way and in that amount, that amount, and on those orders as given by the head of the executive government. If they do not establish a certain communication with him, his powers will be narrow, if he has stronger communication with each other, then his powers will be broader. The article 40 gave us very well, in our opinion, the very well-conceived elections, the re-elections, the additional elections in the middle of the term of office. So it's well worked out in all the details which is acceptable to us as well as the model of complementary minority, or early minority elections for minority representatives. We believe that the article 61 is a well-established and strengthened authority and position of local committees. The practice says that somewhere they are just a formality, and we think that in certain environments local committees both through the work plan and through the funds and through all of this which is listed in Article 61 as an obligation to define the position of local committees well. So they can fully agree with counterpart Vinkovic, who previously said this model would establish an entirely new political relationship in local and regional self-government. We are aware of this and the aim of these changes is that current political relations are being replaced with some other relations, so more will be expressed by some kind of party values, or more will be valorised by party elections, the results of the party elections, as the executive head will also have to have coalition capacity to get a certain majority in the council and in the congregations that would then support him in further work, in making key decisions such as budget or something like that. I wouldn't say that it all comes down to political trade, of course it doesn't exclude the possibility from the practice that there was and that it was, of course it would be, but it's a matter of both political culture and various other circumstances. The fact is, in this way, the party's election results will gain more weight. So much for the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government that we support. I'm just going to take a moment to look back at a few thesis on the Local Elections Act. We are fully satisfied with what is accepted in Article 111, where passive and active legislation has been defined when it comes to representatives from the ranks of national minorities, and we think that in Chapter 4, there is a very high quality and comprehensively defined electoral procedure relating to the selection of minority representatives. The statutes are a problem here. The basis for the consumption of national minorities' rights in participation in representative and executive bodies is well-organised statutes of local self-government. We still have the fact that some local self-governments have not complied with their statutes with the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and nobody does, and therefore no, there are no consequences for such one behaviour. It is incomprehensible that it is necessary to force certain leaders of the local government to do what is their legal obligation, so that they agree their statutes with the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. That's what's left unsettled in this law, and I think that should have been more clear about what the consequences are for this kind of behavior. And in the end, I'm going to say something that my colleagues didn't say, so the election will be very interesting in practical terms in the 19th. Why? It will be interesting because in one day at the same polling place we will have opportunities to choose and plead, we have a ballot for the municipal chief and his deputy, for the municipal council and minorities for the minority representative. We will have to do the same for the mayor and his deputy members of the Assembly of the County Assembly, or cities, and minority representatives of the minority representative. So at some point, our voters will be obliged to take six ballots and vote, and put them in six boxes. I say that it will probably take some public education and media preparation for the whole job, because we have people who, people who are barely able to hold elections and when it comes to voting for, on a ballot, so it's something that's real and something that's waiting for us in 19.5., and that's why I'm warning the ministry that we should start working on this thing right now. So we accept these two legislative proposals and we think that these elections will be conducted according to this model, and eventually they will probably, as well as the previous two that have been conducted by the bile debate, will require certain time adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25916	Thank you. On behalf of the club of independent representatives Ivan Grubisic. He's gone. Unfortunately, he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of HNS Marijan Skvaric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25917	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs of the Parliament. This Proposal for an amendment to the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government is based on the 2008 Law, under which mayors, mayors and mayors were elected for the first time directly, thus changing the system in which local self-government executive bodies, then head offices and mayors were elected in the councils and the assembly. Of this, four years have passed, as we must acknowledge the fact that we have a low-level political culture, and still not developed that certain gaps in the law have been abused primarily by the will of the voters, and thus finally there has been stagnation in the development of a particular municipality, city or county. These laws also form part of a whole of different laws, which ultimately defines a full and systematic reform of electoral legislation. The HNS Club supports the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and the Law on Local Elections, as the proposed legislative solutions contribute to the more effective functioning of the body of the unit and regional (regional) self-government in a way that eliminates the essential and practical nature of the conduct of the executive and representative body and better conduct of these duties towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In order to achieve this, political stability must be legally ensured in relations between the representative ground represented by the city and municipal councils, and the County Assembly, as well as the executive bodies, which are in the municipality the mayor, and in the county mayor. I would especially like to highlight a few legal solutions that contribute to the above-mentioned facts. First of all, we support the resolution of the resolution institute, or recall. To this end, the current Institute of Resolutions of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, and their deputy, through a referendum, is more detailedly arranged by prescribing the opposition institute to the proposal of 20% of the total number of voters in the unit. Revocation of the directly elected executive body may be given to voters who have chosen it, so that the majority of voters are declared in the recall referendum, provided that the majority is at least one-third of the total number of voters enrolled in the list of voters in the unit. We also point out that at the institute disbanding the presidential body arranged... By law, this law of the Institute shall, at the same time as the disbanding of the representative body and the resolution of the municipal chief or mayor or mayor and of its deputy elected with them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that case, the discharge of the municipal chief, the mayor or mayor, has authorised their deputies who have been elected with him, other than the deputy members of the national minorities who have not been resolved. Such a solution contributes to the harmonisation of political will in the most important issues of interest to the local and regional regional self-government unit, by prescribing the simultaneous departure of the unit bodies in the event of not making a budget or temporary financing decisions, it is intended to achieve the strengthening of the responsibility of both bodies. The question of local self-government is also defined. This law also provides for the obligation to conduct elections for members of the local committees if local committees are established and the authority of the municipal chief, or mayor to call these elections as well as the basic provisions in the process of protecting the rights in the process of running for election of council members. There's going to have to be a lot of other things going on tomorrow. First of all, there is no coincidence at all so that in some things it is still decided by the little ingenuity now the captain, the mayor of the call decision on his will. They would like to highlight the definition of the work of the executive body and the deputy. This law stipulates that the executive body is an exceptional deputy acting as municipal mayor, mayor or mayor, and defines that the deputy acting as municipal mayor, mayor or mayor is that deputy mayor, mayor or mayor who has been elected in direct elections together with the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. And the district chief's duty is to act if the municipal chief, mayor or mayor's term of office has ceased after more than two years of office in the local regional self-government unit. This law regulates the right of the deputy municipal chief and mayor and the mayor of one member of the national minority by referring to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. They would also highlight the precise determination of estrangement powers and acquisition of real estate and movables. This law clearly states that if the level of the individual value is less than 0.5% of the amount of income obtained in the year preceding the year in which it is decided then the municipal chief, mayor or mayor is authorised to decide until that amount. If that amount is greater than one million kuna, then it is authorised to decide no more than one million kuna, if that amount is 70 thousand kuna, then it is authorised to decide up to 70 thousand kuna. There is a very good definition of what powers are and the size of cities and municipalities the individual mayor can decide on. I would also like to point out the appointment in the bodies of public institutions. The appointment and resolution of representatives of units of local and regional self-government in bodies of public institutions, companies and other legal entities established by the unit for the performance of economic, social and municipal and other activities of its own interest shall be prescribed by this law by the powers of the municipal head, mayor and mayor, thus strengthening and his responsibility for the performance of executive tasks. Responsibilities are indeed an emphasis because such a setting is of the highest importance and has the ingenuity of the work of such institutions, companies, because it depends mostly on the supervisory board, or on a member of the board of directors. We're also stressing legal oversight. As regards the supervision of legality, the general acts prescribed by the provisions of the applicable laws need first and foremost to be aligned with the applicable Law on Administrative Disputes. Therefore, one supervision of the legality of individual illegal acts, which are carried out by the representative executive bodies of the municipalities, cities and counties, shall be prescribed by the competent central authorities of the state administration, each in their own part, in accordance with the specific law. The assessment of the legality of the general acts is in the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and it is prescribed that the jurisdiction of the central authorities of the State administration, when it directly suspends all application of the General Act, or where the decision of the President suspends or confirms the suspensions of the application of the general acts as established. And then it is submitted to the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia for an assessment of the legality of the General Act. I would also like to point out that the issue of arbitration of the Minister himself is important because clearly defined criteria and laws are immediately becoming fairer or more enforceable. As regards the Law on Local Elections, the differences between the solutions contained in the proposal of the Law on Local Elections discussed in the Croatian Parliament in the first reading and the solutions contained in the final proposal of the Law are technical and present an improvement and improvement of the legal text, and in particular the following paper would be pointed out again. Through the objective of the legal text, the statement of permanent residence is replaced by the term residence for the purpose of harmonising the expressions made out in the final proposal of the residence law. The paper also presents the content of the candidacy for the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputies. The news is that the candidate lists are prescribed to be entered in the summary list according to an alphabetical order full of the political party's name. Therefore, there is no special allocation of the voter group's candidate list, but all lists are listed according to alphabetical order. I would also like to define the paper to represent the addition of provisions that ensure the protection of the secrecy of the vote, so GONG's proposals regarding the protection of the serial number of ballots are accepted. Proposals for a list, duties, incompatible with the duty of a member of a representative body of a unit of local or regional self-government are also accepted. Under that list, the responsibilities of the Rector and the University's Rector and the President and members of the company's management in the majority state-owned company have been deleted. As regards the termination of the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputies, this final proposal of the law stipulates that it must be a prison sentence of more than one month, and as the current provisions of the laws on the election of municipal mayors, mayors, mayors, and mayor of Zagreb are laid down now, I would like to point out once again that all these laws constitute a whole of the different laws that we have adopted both during the day and yesterday and finally define the full system reform of electoral legislation. Of course, here we define first and foremost the obligations of law, the obligations of the representative executive body, and also the restoring ministry and the entire government. And I would like to point out again that there must be the responsibility of the voters. The voter's responsibility cannot be defined by law, but voters must also know these laws for their own good. And what everyone says has the power he deserves. Here I also commend the way these laws are passed because these laws are indeed through public debates that are conducted through the maintenance of round tables, the opinion of GONG was respected, the civil society association but we have received and we have received a law that fills many holes in the law that I mentioned before and the previous law, but we certainly need to know that we will need another electoral cycle of minimum to fully bring about the level of electoral democracy in a way that we will all be satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25918	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25919	Here's an esteemed colleague of mine you said, among other things, that this very relationship between the legislative and executive authorities has led to political stability. I claim exactly the opposite, that there is a space for political instability, and that is precisely what it is about voting or not voting the budget. I am not attached to a single unit of local self-government, not to Đakovo, not to Lepoglava, not to Zagreb, but to speak primarily of what can happen. And as mayor you're elected directly to the election you're proposing a budget. You are proposing a budget to the city council and after the debate these councilors propose 20 amendments and these are good amendments are not the amendments that one representative has discussed here and you adopt those amendments. There's a budget vote coming, a council voting the amendment, there's a budget vote coming, the council says we're not going to vote the budget right now. You and the council are going to repeat elections regardless of these three months of temporary funding and possible settlement. I say it's not possible to negotiate, but to buy, to corrupt and to commit crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25920	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. A fellow Squirt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25921	Well, first of all, it can be obvious that the law would... which provides certain relations between the executive and the legislative authority in order to surely have a law on several hundred articles. And we still have to put that combination on the level that they are responsible for both the executive and the legislative authority. Responsible if we are really in some democratic procedure, if we have a certain responsibility above all to our voters, then that kind of thing will not happen. I'm sure what I said will take another cycle. What will happen when they are elected, voters will never again allow something like that that you have stated that these same people will never be able to implement again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25922	Thank you, too. On behalf of National Minorities Club Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We don't have a minister, there's a team to replace him. A very short colleague and colleagues, there's no need to repeat themselves. We will, as counterpart Horvat said on behalf of the SDSS Club, which is part of our club so we will support both legislative proposals, but since we have agreed at the Club for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and voted unanimously one amendment here we will only comment on it a little bit. We have made an amendment to Article 103, which says that the number of members of a representative body in the order of members, so we are talking about the Law on Local Elections, where Article 103 votes "The number of members of a representative body in the order of members of a national minority under the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities will be determined by multiplying the share of individual national minorities in the total population of that unit by the number of members of the representative body, and the number obtained is rounded up without a significant remainder". In the light of the same article on page 80, there is an example in which in the representative body a unit that has 3.9% of the share of the population when that product is made, a result of 1,989 is obtained and here that result is rounded to 1. So the national minority in the large local community, which has a share of 3.9%, affects or gets one out of 51, which is about 2% or below 2%. Of course, this is for every division that we have a participation below 5% of what the Constitutional Law guarantees us, but we were led by the idea that it still circled mathematically. The truth would lead to positive discrimination in local units that we do not give up, so we will stay with the amendments but we will not be satisfied unless you accept it because we know that in small local units, it is a real problem. So here's the argument, and out of the desire that this percentage representation of the population is passed on to the body of the local community, we have submitted that amendment, but once again I repeat that we will not be, although I will not explain it on behalf of the board, but we will not be dissatisfied even if it is not accepted. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25924	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25925	Dear counterpart Hodzic would not want you to understand this if I had something against national minorities, on the contrary. National minorities are the wealth of Croatia. But here's the law showing one thing I'd say is irrelevant. The budget is not adopted, so under this law falls and the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the council, the assembly, remains the only deputy national minority and he does not have to go to the elections. Why? If they all fall, then they should fall from the ranks of the national minority. Which makes this law possible, for example. in Daruvar. With the mayor, it will be possible under this law to have four deputies because we do not have only one national minority representative based on the percentage of the population. I haven't been anywhere, and even in the government's explanation, I've seen too much and a rational solution. So everyone falls, so then logic goes the election for the national minority. So not wanting to have something against the representatives of the national minority. Can anyone answer that too much? Not to mention what I've been saying all along, that the relationship between a directly elected leader and a representative body cannot be a budget collapse. The directly selected leader can only be replaced by a referendum. Let two councilmen ask for it, let one councilman or that number of citizens, sentence and I end it, or the number of citizens prescribed by law but cannot do so 19, 20 or 30 council members.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25926	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Hodzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25927	I'm going to be very brief. National minorities must not fall [[Upadica Vinkovic: This is not about national minorities.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25928	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25929	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here I am going to try something in a brief discussion today contributed to these laws on local and regional self-government and local elections. It is evident that our minister is a professor of mathematics and that he tried to put everything described in some numbers, so we have a third, we have percentages, we have even tables that give different mandates in the same number of votes that are not bad. Even in one part and this one, both proposals are acceptable, but it is good that they have accepted certain suggestions from first reading parliamentary representatives, but I don't know why we still wanted to stay on two mechanisms with which we want to disband directly elected leaders. I think that any democracy is enough because these voters, too, are directly participating in the election and being introduced after the suggestion of this referendum on impeachment as a good mechanism which I may have had little to do with it because how we have it for councilors and the number of council members, in municipal councils and city councils, it was possible to apply it because it was not the same thing to do a referendum on impeachment in the municipality of 1,000 inhabitants and in the city of 100 or 200 thousand voters. It can't be understood under one of those same articles, and I think there was room for improvement, but then it's clearly said why. I was already in the first debate when we had the first proposal and I spoke to the reasons why the budget as a document on which the mayors fall or remain, but now the councillor is simply not a good reason and I don't really understand why the minister insisted on it and ruined all the good that such an improved bill could bring to local democracy. The fact is that today, we have heard more than once about political corruption at local level, that we are going back a few years, that it opens up space with manipulations, and that in 2013 and 2014, we will all have a lot, a lot of local choices, and that the situation within these units will remain more or less unchanged. Because it does not depend on the development of these local self-governments only on the elections, much more depends on the material possibilities of each local self-government and while there is money I think there is no more or less problem, but the problem will be where the money is gone, and there are fewer because this government simply does not choose the means to in any way under the notion of decentralisation impoverish more and more local self-government. However, there is one illogical thing again when we talk about the election of local leaders, mayors, mayors, and we say that after 2 years of the term of office if the leader has moved to some new duty there is no need to hold elections and we in the next 2 years then we no longer have a choice. And that's what we're explaining to some need for saving that people don't need to go to elections, etc., that it's enough for a deputy to run that local self-government or regional until the next election. And then we put the article in the law where you go to local elections by not making a third-year budget. One article refutes the intention of another article. So in the third year, there are no more stories about whether or not savings are needed, and even in the fourth year, I mean by this law. It's just that that's when the story of saving and needless going to the polls isn't like that anymore. I think it should be corrected, either we have a choice or we don't have a choice. Because if one article says we don't have a choice to save, then this part about the budget needs to be brought into line with it. Otherwise everything with each other doesn't make sense. I was already talking today about that, already, that the amendments and amendments to the law in 12 months additionally introduced confusion into local self-government, offended a direct choice because it tells us about the election of a mayor, two, three deputies, etc. when only one deputy mayor in my Primorje-Gorski County has been running that county for a full year and it somehow works if I don't know best, that's what the citizens will say but the fact is it's working. Maybe we'll just have to have one mayor and one deputy, which is two. Do we count on everyone passing through the mayor's post in a four-year term? Why three if we also talk about members of national minorities who also need to be replaced in some areas. I think that should have been fixed, too. And what I want to say in the end, and that is the Law on Local Elections, which has more or less prescribed clear procedures and practices that we have so far had. He put it very nicely theoretically, but it didn't touch anything that I first mentioned and these are the famous pre-election coalitions. It's a disaster for local democracy. Pre-election coalitions that come together at local levels. Here's an example. Sisak-Moslavina County has already signed a pre-election coalition in which 10 SDP parties, HNS, HSLS, HSU, DSU, AHSS, HDRS, SDAH, SPH, SDSS. So what do we do with all these laws in that county except go through the shape to pick out a little bit, to get Shushura, to take a picture and get things sorted out? It's so-called. The advisory coalition because I see one of these partners wouldn't sign because he wasn't guaranteed an advisory position, i.e. A chair. Here's my River. SDP, HNS, IDS, HSS, HSLS, ADR, SDA, and then they say it's your River. It's their River. They've had that river for 20 years and don't give it to anyone. What to do there in local elections. In the Primorje-Gorski County 9 parties along with all these listed here are also the Green Party and the Mother of Retired even as a member of a coalition called... The question is, why are we here today wasting our time creating certain rules to detail when, as we go out, who can't, who can't when the chairs on this are allowed, when it's the only purpose of fighting for local self-government, when they're sharing pre-advisory seats, cabinet seats, jobs, etc. And it becomes the meaning of local choices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Wouldn't it be fairer if everyone came out under their own name, that everyone had only their own party or independent list, and that, after the election, if they had already created certain majority in the Council, they would ensure stability in this way and the formation of a normal self-government. This is a disaster. There's an old saying that says, "The herd stinks, but it's warm!" I think it's the best that paints exactly these ways of forming local authorities. Now we can imagine what's left when that herd, that number of parties goes through a certain area. I know about my county. That's where the grass doesn't grow anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25930	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, I'm glad you've listed my county. I'm not happy that it is, but it has indeed been a unique example of political corruption, real political corruption for years. Each of these advisors you mention, 14 advisors who receive 5000 kuna a month, so one good salary more than 50% of them imagine council members of the County Assembly. So they already know they've been secured 5,000 and know they have to maintain power. They're a unique example. What's going to happen with this signing in advance of the coalition. Whether they sign a fellow member of the Boric in advance or later, it is even more tragic, because one of the parties missing in this 10 chain is already known to us that they will sign the coalition. They have been granted a ban on signing the coalition, but will later sign the coalition because they are now participating in power and have four advisory seats among other things. So they're the ones holding power. In 2005, we lost the county assembly to these different transactions of councilmen, councilmen who taught their mandates, frozen their mandates, gave up. Others came to their place, and then there was a lack of members of the national minority council because we had to have three council members of national minorities, so we complemented it and thus increased the number of councilors in the County Assembly and thus lost the final elections. Here is what is possible by manipulation and by signing and such political corruption, leading to local, or regional self-government. It's a famous thing, but nobody's doing anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25932	Thank you. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25933	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Roksandić, just knowing all of this, I cited it because the Law on Local Elections doesn't mention it, and that's what all the choices are about. And already now all party activities are focused on an article that is not in these laws. Everyone's already making a deal, everyone's already conditioning something, and the fact is what I said about the herd being warm. I hear there's an increase in egg consumption, that there's food there, that it's going. Well, obviously not only are they warm but they're obviously pretty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25934	Thank you. Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. On behalf of the Proposer, please elect a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25935	I'll be right there. Sir, I've called before. I'm surprised at your problem with the coalition. Because if coalitions were so problematic, one party leader would not be left behind because of the coalition signing the budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25936	We're continuing an individual debate. A colleague Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I have to start here with coalitions because I can't believe it, let the first stone be thrown by the one who didn't sin. I think you are sitting next to a colleague with whom you have also similarly done parliamentary elections with some coalition, not to mention various crises in the City of Zagreb which have also been a variety of other non-principle coalitions that have been part of every political, conditionalally said trade, and political work in Croatia since the first day. But to return to this law that is another good law that has come to our benches. On behalf of the CNS, he was spoken of by counterpart Marijan Skurić and I fully agree with his discussion that some solutions are really excellent and I think it is one of the laws of very important local and regional (regional) self-government laws that will contribute to the development of regional and local self-government. The proposal itself also calls for a simple debate on the importance of local self-government, the importance of decentralisation of local self-government and the importance of even development. Local self-government is the policy closest to its citizens and politics at the level of local self-government starts and concerns citizens and citizens by getting out of their uncircumcised environment of their own home. At that level, although it is located in a home, electricity, water and everything but everything. At that level, and in most cases it should be, politics is simply a service for its citizens who pay the same service through taxes. It is the right of citizens and citizens to expect and seek the highest level of service in all segments, and it is the duty of policy to provide them with a quality service in all segments of the divided hiking trails across a regulated environment, waste disposal, quality educational and educational content, road safety, entertainment, culture, etc. It is local self-government policy that should create and impose standards of services consumed by citizens and citizens, especially in the immediate environment. The way of this creation should be created from recognition and understanding to collecting and creating realisation of the needs of citizens and citizens by policies at the lowest level should continue to be common and formed, looking for solutions to the level of the highest policy, but sticking to the firm principle of solving the problem at the lowest level, i.e. the principle of subsidiarity. Local policy is the main and practical part of the policy in direct contact with its citizens and citizens. And that's why decentralisation is so important. Croatia is a highly centralised state, according to European standards and criteria, still. This is also particularly reflected in the redistribution of tax revenues. We believe in the HNS that the quality of the service that the state is obliged to provide to its citizens can only be achieved by significant decentralisation of the powers of funds and also by decentralisation of knowledge. It would be devastating to transfer powers and resources to a local self-government without guaranteeing that this local self-government knows and that it is properly educated to tax those powers to the correct use of decentralised funds. That is why local self-government is the most important investment in the process of decentralisation of Croatia. A decentralised state and policy at the level of its own street is the condition of increasing the quality of life of citizens, i.e. citizens, but also the necessary integral part of the development of society as a whole. I believe that Croatia must, if it wants to step up, gradually and as soon as possible, be decentralised both in powers and in means. In order for local policy to carry out its task, it has a permanent obligation to provide more and more quality solutions services from day to day, and only knowledge, skills, full powers and sufficient resources can do so. Generally the ultimate purpose of politics is the quality life of citizens and citizens and ultimately the politics itself and there is no other purpose. The state is there to ensure for its citizens and citizens freedom, security, happiness and therefore practical policy at local level is so important. And that is why it is necessary for local self-government to be able to strongly move towards creation and realisation of raising the quality of life of its citizens and citizens. And that is possible only by turning around, it is possible by changing the policy from a highly centralised to a strongly decentralised or better said from a strongly centralised to a highly decentralised state. Finally, I want to take this opportunity and say a few words about the importance of the even development of Croatia. I am convinced that human rights are universal and that each individual has the same right and must have equal chances of achieving their own personal desires,affinity and ambition. That is why I believe that the even development of all parts of Croatia... in absolutely all areas affected by policy at any level, from equal rights to the same quality of education, through equal right to employment, to equal right to clean water, or air to the total environment, from equal right to speed of information, to equal right to equal quality of transport, equal right to judicial protection, possibility of travelling to any end of Croatia, to equal rights to the development of entrepreneurial skills, to equal competition. [[You don't understand.]] Unfortunately, the devastation of the entire society over the last decades has been a highly unequal state, except for the war, the local patriotic protectionist policy of Croatian political powermakers has gone directly against the rights of its citizens of an unequal and equal effort to achieve the ambition to meet the personal ideals of happiness. With unbalanced development, this country has been unfair against its citizens for decades, and even development is a condition of equality and protection of human rights. I believe that the realization of equality of development of all parts of Croatia can be realised through decentralisation, i.e. through laws that treat work and help strengthen the work of local self-government, regional and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25938	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one came from Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Blažekovic, you were in principle very nice talk about the area of local self-government, and in that part absolutely there would be nothing, no objections, but I would like to remind you that local self-government for the last 10 years, you said that there has been a devastation, that there has been no concern about even development. It's incorrect, my colleague Blažekovic. I come from this mile, so I know very well, each municipality has proved the essence of its existence, except for some that may have been very small, but extremely, there are miles and miles of water, miles and miles of asphalt, gas pipelines, all possible to improve the quality of life. That was a contribution to the even development that you're talking about. But this current approach doesn't contribute to even development. The rural areas are in catastrophic, they don't, you talked well about it, eventually and fiscal decentralisation, you said, but there's no practice. We, with income tax, have been reduced by some nearly 300 million, understand, there is a big problem. It's nice to hear it from your mouth, and especially in a difficult situation are the units of local self-government in rural areas which are now, we must repeat, may now say this again about agriculture, but it is true, so many of these environments live on agriculture, because of their relations with agriculture, one unseen, unheard and rural environments are at the edge of existence, on the edge of existence, of course they won't be able to service all these obligations they need, so there's pre-school education, of course and fire, and all of these things that have been brought to a very high level. Here's your problem with what you're saying and putting it into practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25940	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25941	Finally, my colleague said what I'm talking about, which is, I just wanted to point out that in the past period, really certain areas have been developing incomparably better than some other regions in the Republic of Croatia, and we can only look at statistics, let's say the amount of GDP in Zagreb, or let's say the amount of GDP in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25942	Thank you. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25943	So something about this even development. We in Slavonia and Baranja are preparing this space shuttle for departure, we'll call it Apollo 72, and based on this even development that's been going on for all these 20 years, we'll probably get into that space program. But something about decentralisation. The fact that a year or a year or a half ago that ratio was 92% of all tax revenues in the state budget, 8% according to local self-government units, and that wasn't good, that was extremely bad, and it's nice to hear that we're looking for a highly decentralised country. However, in this year's wonders of the tendency, this ratio to the state budget has jumped from 92% to 97%, and local and regional self-government including the City of Zagreb remained only 3%. So as we talk about aspirations towards decentralisation, let's do something and make it really happen, which is raising hands in the Croatian Parliament for certain laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25944	Thank you. We are continuing the debate, Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25945	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So since the government has decided, however, that, and the ruling coalition that both of these laws should be adopted on Friday in the text as proposed, I would still be troubled by the four most important things that I, in HDZ, am not personally satisfied with, and I don't think they are, that they are not good solutions that the government proposes in either law. In the first instance, this refers to the possibility that a central state body, which is the Ministry of Administration, which, under the Law on Local Self-Government, is responsible for the implementation of the legality and adoption of acts, general acts in accordance with the law in the units of local or regional self-government, should be resolved by the holder of the exercised authority or, better said, recall it even when implementing the law and when implementing the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance provided to the units of local self-government when drawing up the draft budget of the unit of local or regional self-government and when it insists on implementing the law. It is therefore absolutely inconsistencies with the existing law on local self-government to be resolved by someone who is obliged to enforce the law and is resolved by one who follows and oversees whether or not he is implementing the law. It is a very bad solution for me that neither the Minister nor until now in the debate either of the ruling majority deputies gave a higher answer which would be a reason to resolve the heads of municipalities, cities and counties because they insist that the budgets as basic documents in local self-government units are adopted in accordance with the Law and I say with all those guidelines provided by the Ministry of Finance. So there's no excuse for me to have the government insist on that. The second thing I have already said to the minister through the replica refers to the fact that I do not agree with the necessary number of citizens' signatures in the local self-government unit that can propose a referendum in that local self-government unit especially in the section relating to the opposition of the executive authority. I think that 20% in large cities was almost unreachable and that a certain scale was to be made for the number of council members in the representative body, depending on the units of local self-government, so the number and percentage of the total number of voters enrolled for the local self-government unit, because 20% of the total voter in the county as badly as the mayor will not be gathered in order to initiate the process of recalling the mayor in the counties and such a situation is similar in large cities. The third thing that has been discussed here today is this famous opportunity to withdraw after two years the one who carried the list for the mayor and the mayor and to leave the remaining two years to his deputy who does not open up the random possibility of political trade and the Government does so by the fact that there is no need to expose himself to additional costs and conduct elections, while at the same time in the last year of the term he is willing to disband both councils and mayors, i.e. the mayor or mayors if they argue over the budget. Therefore, it is absolutely not good, there is no valid explanation which can defend the proposal not to go to local elections after two years when the leader who won the direct elections goes to some we heard a duty that is not even incompatible with the duties of mayors, mayors or mayors. So that's, you can't defend yourself either. Furthermore, I don't know where you found the solution to draw the mayor, namely the mayoral candidate, the mayor and the mayor if he gets the same number of votes in the first round. So if the second and third candidates on the mayoral list, the mayor and the mayor get the same number of votes to then draw out who will go to the second round. I'm trying to figure out what it's going to look like, where in some local casino in front of someone, in front of a municipal, city or electoral commission, a couple of odd or cubes or how, who's going to pull a longer match, I don't know what the criteria are going to decide whether or not the candidate is going to go to the second round, whether you've worked out that model and how you're going to decide who's going to go in that circle. Here we have recently commented that such a stallion was forced for Commissioner Las Vegas di is a gambling core activity. But that in some county, city and municipality of two candidates, when between the two candidates the cube determines who will go to the second round, I think that this level of democracy in Croatia is absolutely inappropriate. The more we already have a solution that if, in the second round, the first and second candidates in the second round get the same number of votes in the third round, so if we have already established the possibility of a third round in the immediate election why don't we do it right now even though these are really bizarre situations, it won't happen, or if it happens in 576 local self-government unit only in one, so what's the problem to protect democracy in that one local self-government has three circles. I don't see what's pulling you in, which is why it's making you decide with a draw, a cube, which I don't know what's going to get into the second round of the election for the unit leader of local or regional self-government. And one more thing, so you're saying that the Law on Elections for Representatives in the Croatian Parliament has established incompatibility in the conduct of MPs at the same time as the mayor. If the law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is possible on the list to run for the current mayor and if the elections for local self-government on the list for the mayor's executive authority are possible, then, according to this analogy, a drop as determined by the Law on Elections for Representatives in the Croatian Parliament is incompatibility with the behaviour of the mayor's office, the same should be determined by analogy in the Law in local elections to determine the incompatibility of behaviour at the same time by the mayor and the parliamentary representative. It seems to me I am not a lawyer but if the analogy of running there is then such analogy should also be in this law when it comes to the incompatibility of the conduct of the mayor and the parliamentary representative. And finally, what I want to say is that I also said during my first reading that only a few months before the local elections, we are making a whole new almost brand-new electoral legislation because the new Law on Local Elections is on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Law on Local Administration or the Regional Self-Government is substantially changing. So all that is now the ruling majority while the opposition respected the HDZ and the former government when it wanted to change the more harmless rules in the electoral procedure in the electoral legislation falls into the water. So one thing you said when you were in opposition and the other you represent when you're in power. about this unbelief best says that only a few months before the local elections are held we are absolutely changing the entire package of electoral laws that determine the elections and the part-time work of local self-government. In this sense, it is certainly a good conclusion by the Labourists to make a consolidated text of this law because this law passed the Law on local self-government indeed suffered a large, large number of amendments and a few months before the elections certainly would be necessary to make one consolidated text of this law. In any case, these are, in my opinion, really big changes offered by such legislation and it would be good if by Friday the government had some solutions that are not good in the first place said about the lot, related to two years after the term of office of its deputy and about the referendum the Government should accept then in this way the law should be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25946	Thank you. We have a report of a replica of your exposure. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25947	Here's a colleague mentioned Mayor Las Vegas, I'm sure he's chosen by direct choice not to change the city council of Las Vegas, if he doesn't vote the budget because the city council doesn't have that authority. It's like that all over America. But by the time we mentioned America, ai there were reasons about this so-called. A piece of law ha here's what happens in America if he dies, the American president dies, replaces him with his deputy as it happened when JFK was killed and replaced by Lyndon Johnson. But if we want to look up to that America, then one replacement is enough. If the American president has one deputy who can replace him, and one of our little mayors has to have two, and in some cities he's going to have 4, 5, and some more will be immeasurable won't go to the election again. So obviously in this law when it turns a little bit better like that, it turns, etc. Although there are also positive things that are put into the law obviously this law is unfortunately what I must say now ready for a third reading. It is not the only questionable matter of destroying directly or replacing the directly elected head of local and regional self-government, but there is still to say the materials for changes and changes. This will not happen until Friday, but we will have a problem after 19.5.2013. and this big problem where the entire political trade will open, and as I said that the promoters will nicely put Croatian democracy in the coffin of the funeral, nail the nails, and now this Sulejman is in fashion, so I will cast nails, this is what we say in Slavonia and we will finely bury democracy for centuries in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25948	Thank you. We have a response to Bacic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25949	So I'm surprised to you that you didn't realize that it takes at least three or four deputies, because after two years the mayor or mayor goes away and then the mayor goes away, and after a few months, the one who replaced him goes away, so he needs four deputies to complete the mandate. Because as they go to the ministry one after the other, the company owned by the state or not even owned by the state, this proposal ensures that they can simply walk from function to duty and continue to be all nice and peaceful in the local self-government unit especially if it is in power in that unit of local self-government SDP. Therefore, this model is obviously made up of the intention that eventually mayors and mayors who are members of the SDP and during the term of this term of office of the coalition government should be slowly dissipating the staff to go to public companies. You have seen that they have now replaced the complete management of the HAC and will probably be filled by mayors who will be able to leave without any problems from their units local self-government. Here's what seems to me to be on the trail to fill places with party friends in public enterprises in the state administration, etc. That's where I see this solution so you can get out of the place where you've been chosen without any trouble in another position. Clearly, those who are in opposition may not be able to fill such places.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25950	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. The goddess of Calmeta. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25951	So the unquestionable need was for the law to resolve and regulate one relationship after the adoption of the Law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors to regulate the relationship between the executive body on the one hand and, on the other hand, the representative body units local self-government. Although it is neither equal nor equal to the political weight of a man who, by his name and name, is running for, say, a mayor and a councilman, respecting all those who are in the 30th or 35th place or 15th place. This is not equal weight, nor equal responsibility, and ultimately, not equal number of citizens vote for one or the other. But there is therefore a need to legally resolve it, to regulate it, as far as possible, better. And so that this law, which has already been passed before, or proposed some time ago, and not practically a few months before the elections, and that this law accepts the objections that have been made here from the HDZ Club, or some other clubs, then one such law would be really good because it has good ideas and good ideas in it, and these solutions and these ideas could in any case improve that relationship between mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors and representative bodies, so that citizens who choose one and the other would not be hostages tomorrow are practically certain relationships between mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors or mayors and representatives bodies, because by coming in some of the crisis in these relationships the most suffering units of local self-government, because then some needs are then based on this and not on the problems that need to be solved in some city, municipality or county, and more, and it would be less, that we will all be together with time. But as for the time being, these proposals that some have talked about, which I will repeat, because I have nothing to invent hot water here, but a lot of it has been said, are not accepted or not accepted, and then we'll be like a club, and on behalf of the Club, we'll be against the adoption of this law, I say no matter what he offers and some good solutions. The fact that Article 2 is that it is not logical for the Ministers that when it comes to the referendum, that the ministry decides on regularity, let's decide how many more signatures, rather than whether the referendum issue is right or not, because that is, that is, the broad term, and then freedom of decision has a ministry, and I said before when I was discussing in the replica that, with all due respect for the Minister and the Ministry, there will always be little subjectivity in making such decisions, depending on who it is sent and who it decides. I think in Article 4, as far as I know, we've had a situation so far that local self-government units had a legally defined framework, I don't know that local self-government units could have more than 30,000 residents from council, and that's what local self-government units decide by statute. I think it was a good solution because units of local self-government can best estimate what the number of council members is, in some ways, optimal for a particular unit of local self-government, because here is an example, here is a view unit with more than 35 and up to 60 thousand inhabitants have 25 members, and from 35 to 60 is almost double, so 25 members will have those units with 35 thousand inhabitants and 25 members will have that unit of local self-government that has 60 thousand inhabitants. I don't think it's a good solution, I don't think it should be imposed on local self-government units as fixed as they have to have councillors, not wanting to speculate that something else is hiding behind it, but I don't think it's the intensity of this article, so I think it would be better to have one frame as before, so then the local self-government unit decides how much they want to have a councilman. About those two years I've already said I think it's unnecessary in this law and I think it's something that's controversial and what we're going to dispute, which we're arguing about, because if we decided to directly elect mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies, then I think we should stay consistent, and that if there's some reason why one of those leaders has to step down, then they, then they're elected again in the elections or possibly if it happens in the last year, then maybe this institute that you're proposing, but I don't see any reason to do it for two years, I don't see the reasons, on the other hand probably the reasons exist, is already being said here, so I'm not going to repeat it. Finally, Article 15 states that if the majority of voters who voted on the impeachment referendum were declared on the basis that the majority amounted to at least a third of the total number of voters listed in the voter list. This mathematics is good if, if it refers to a local self-government unit somewhere with about 50,000 voters, then about the same number of voters needs to be resolved by the mayor, as well as how long it takes for his victory. So this applies only to those units, to the small units of local self-government, so if there's no cohabitation or if there's not one party, there's a majority in the municipal council, and your chief, so there's a possibility that by this math there I don't know every little cause a crisis and go to the collapse of the chiefs, or the elections of the council, etc., etc. On the one hand, and if it is the major units of local self-government, then this mathematics suggests that it will be practically impossible to recall the leaders of the local self-government unit in any way, so I think it is a good proposal previously spoken by counterpart Bačić and some other MPs, which is that it is then divided by some number that the local self-government unit can have, I don't know up to 20,000 voters, up to 50,000 voters and more than 50,000 voters. Here is that it was to accept some of these, or these remarks that we were talking about I think the law would be good, and that it would really be a step forward, a step forward, to make it as little misunderstanding as possible, or as little trouble as possible, I'm not going to tell the excess or block of the functioning of the local self-government units, and that's absolutely not in anyone's interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25952	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25953	Here is counterpart Kalmet, I will put this standard Croatian voter on the Croatian voter, the Croatian voters who went to the safari in Africa, and caught him by the cannibals and put him in the boiler. And a man in a boiler has the right to his last wish. He says so here's what I'd like to ask you a few questions. Come on, ask. He says do you have SDP, HDZ, come on, HDSSB and Labourists and all the political parties? They say we don't have these. Do you have a 25% VAT? We don't. Do you have a bad situation in agriculture and the economy? We don't. Do you have such bad election laws? We don't. So what did you go wild for?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25954	At least no one laughs especially if it's funny. Excuse my colleague Kalmet... You won't. [[You don't understand.]] All right. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25955	Thank you very much. My colleague Kalmeta, from your experience and years of experience, has well elaborated certain problems, but all day listening to this debate, I am simply asking myself whether the same rules can apply to some community that has a budget of 200, 300 thousand, 500 thousand kuna, and to the City of Zagreb that has a budget with its public enterprises and what economic potential of several billion kunas? And I think that's the key question of colleagues and colleagues that we have to ask ourselves here today, and that question simply shows all the shortcomings of this election law, because one local chief of staff, with a budget of 400, 500, 600 thousand kuna, can do nothing, for his shift you set exactly the same conditions as for the replacement of the mayors of Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek, Split, Velika Gorica, Zadar and also the county. So is it certain that no one else in Croatia has the political courage and strength to think about whether this number of units of local self-government, regional self-government is something that Croatia and Croatian citizens can finance. The SDP didn't have the courage to ask that question. You're pushing something to justify your own, the SDP is pushing something to justify its actions over the past few months, and that it might solve any problems tomorrow. However, a realistic question arises as to what happens when a political blockade occurs regardless of whose side, whether by the mayor and by the city council. Citizens and dear God are totally still foreign to the problem if the city and the unit of local self - government do not work in this problem. With this proposal, the amendments to this law will unfortunately not solve it, and that is the key problem. I repeat, there is no way to regulate the problem in the City of Zagreb and in some municipality that has 300, 400 thousand inhabitants, is not equal to one big developed Split-Dalmatia or Istrian County, or some poor Slavonian county. There's a big difference, and it just has to be seen in this law in the election of leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25956	Thank you. Next up for a debate, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25957	Thank you very much, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I don't think we're going to solve these crucial issues of local self-government in Croatia, because local self-government in Croatia now, according to this structure for 20 years, it's going to be, in the spring of 20 years, how the first elections were of this kind of structure, and it's done a lot, it can't be said that there hasn't been any shifts, it hasn't been made, especially very active and agile were small municipalities and the results for them definitely stand. But I think that local self-government would deserve a far more comprehensive debate, but on the right basis for professional analysis, to look at the overall state of affairs so that one turn could finally be made so as not to constantly have some changes to the amended laws and thus get lost in that forest more for the day-to-day political purposes that are actually imposed on us from year to year, from change to change. By including in the law provisions that solve such individual cases we get in principle random laws, and perhaps hence that offensive name of the random state. I must say that regarding the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, I am on behalf of the HSS which I am representing and have handed over some amendments and that is already spoken here, but I will repeat it again. It is not fair, it is not fair that the referendum replaces people who were elected with fewer votes to the referendum than the number that came out when the elections were held. As long as people vote for the shift or not, that's another thing, but at least they'd have to come up with as many numbers as they came out to choose to make the referendum valid. I ask you, as a proposing minister, to take a good second look at this situation so as not to really discriminate against people who go to the polls, including voters at the very end of the day. Also in this part of the council of local committees, these laws provide that most local committees can ask a referendum question to be carried out, so I am now asking the question here why they would not pass the law, determine this law that elections for local committees are really maintained, which is already spoken here, always at a time when elections for local, regional (regional) self-government are held, to be one real sample, to be really transparent, because later we give these local committees quite great powers, and in the end, they would force those units of local self-government that haven't set up local self-government to finally set it up to bring this local self-government back together, because it's necessary, but it hasn't recovered yet in Croatia, because it's always puts somewhere on the side, we always think that it will settle some other laws. I don't see any reason for these laws to predict that choice for the councils of local committees, city districts, for them to be spent and to just cut it off and make one cut, because eventually we're going to have to do it. In the Law on Local Elections, as I was already saying all the time, it actually comes down to the story of how to replace directly elected local or regional self-government leaders. It is not a good message, it is not a good path, because as already here it seems to me that no one has done a proper analysis of the true state of affairs to see exactly how much this has been the situation in Croatia in these last 3 and a half, 4 years, how many cases it has been to call a referendum, how many cases it has been that local self-government has not worked because of the relationship between the representative body and the head of local and regional self-government, so I think it should certainly be considered, and that we should really have this one definition that local leaders are some strange people, some powerful, someone who is irreplaceable, irreplaceable, removed from the side and not deal primarily with how to replace these people, because they are directly elected and realisticly looking at me that it could not or perhaps not have been a stronger procedure to move around the changes of this law and to define that system of open lists so that people could be asked by the voters. You can make polls, you can do anything, you'll see that a huge percentage of citizens will answer that question just as affirmatively, they want to choose people, so they don't want to choose parties. I think it would also be much fairer, and that's also said here, to solve the number of signatures with a percentage of the total number of voters in a single unit of local self-government. Well, that's the most accurate model of calculation, because those 5 or 10% as proposed by this amendment to HSS is a model that solves that issue for each unit in a 100% form equally for everyone, so I think it's a much better model and that this determination by the number of residents from up to, and then the number of signatures is not fair, so not everyone goes the same way and I don't see why it wouldn't work out with the percentages, so that's fair enough for that small unit of local self-government, as well as for that big unit of local self-government. Furthermore, political parties today in Croatia, including in the surrounding countries, carry on them an ugly stain, people about politicians do not have a very nice opinion and the amendment proposed here, it is proposed that voters who are legally sentenced to prison regardless of whether parole or unconditional punishment is imposed for any of the crimes do not have the right to run on the lists. Is that a good message to the voters? I think yes, and I don't think there's any reason why we as a Parliament, as people who need to decide on a Croatian future, don't make one such a fair turn and simply tell the citizens, the voters on the lists there won't be people who have such a stain from their past. An even stronger argument is that in the local self-government, the state administration, in the extreme case when people are employed, has to bring a certain certificate of impunity, depends now on which part of which, in schools, is also dependent on activity, but the politician is a man who is one common practice that we say so and he should basically be cleaned up and clean when he goes to the public to show these citizens that they are clean people, who have no dirt and dirt on their faces. I also ask you to think about it and to really put it, it is not so hard to install in this bill, and it will be a good, good message to voters in Croatia, in the end here I call on all other parties in those rules when we will determine the ways of running, if it will not already be defined by law, no one forbids us to do so as political parties each for ourselves. And one more thing, and I'm gonna end it. The amendment, which I also propose to add in Article 92 a new point of 6 to the right of retirement, means that the local official ceases to do the job of mayors, mayors, mayors, on the day he exercises his right to retire, just as the school principal has to retire that day, just as many other people have to retire. Why place priorities on people who are local leaders, and others have to respect other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25958	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, the first one answered Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Hrg, I'm glad you noticed that in many and smaller municipalities and many, and there are almost no municipalities and environments where something has not been done, a lot has been done. I personally testify from the county from which we come together to bear witness in every one of those infrastructures, from waterways, roads, gas pipelines, sports halls, kindergartens, no matter how strong they are, but we also witness the efforts of these people and the captains and all these immense efforts to improve the quality of life in our midst. And now wonders, now these people who care, torture, effort, now some even hear them I call them sheriffs. No matter what sheriffs. Which one? What are those sheriffs? These are people who care about their environment, about the quality of life, and I'm on everyone's proud, everyone justified the goal, because I always say the home player has the best view of the field and the best bites. That's what many and those commissioners have proven. And look now, in these circumstances, when everything is quite well laid out, now, loads up many of the obligations of the new, other social opportunities are unbearable, and in most of our rural areas the growing needs are, etc., of course, that councilman from each local board defends his interests, regardless, simply has a party discipline, each defending him because it is being pressured by the local environment. In these circumstances and these changes and this water mutilation does not contribute to this stabilisation of the further progress of local self-government, and we forget that the EU Charter of Local Self-Government obliges us that local self-government has its priorities and values. Here's the way to think.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25960	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25961	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I just said. So it's done a lot, especially for small municipalities. If this were not the form of small municipalities today, Croatia would have looked completely different in the rural area, and that is why I said it was time for one revision, that it was time for a general view of the situation, to record the situation and to evaluate what is where and how it was done, so that we could assess what is the next step and what is in Croatia that we need, where we can pinch and what is not needed. But what is important, of course, that local officials are not sheriffs, local officials are the hips that come to Zagreb and scratch the doors of state institutions. This is the definition of a local official in the Republic of Croatia in my 12-year experience, I am responsible for saying it, because I no longer have nails as much as I scratched on the door of various offices to realize some programme in my area, in the area of surrounding municipalities, and that is what everyone in Croatia does, and there is the point of the whole story. Fiscal decentralisation per capita of counterpart Milinkovic, it is the only way to achieve the minimum standards of Croatian citizens where they want to live. While there's nothing we can discuss about laws, changes to the Law on Local Self-Government, elections, I don't know what, we won't change anything more important. So I say it is time to really do a detailed analysis, to look at the full state and to go towards fiscal decentralisation repeating on the head of the population, every Croatian citizen deserves to live in the minimum standard where he wants to live in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25962	Thank you. My colleague Vinkovic, you'll see him later. We've got another one, Bozidar Kalmeta, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25963	You know who came up with this? That's what they came up with not now, it's been made up a long time, but it's been invented by some bureaucrats by the ministries who never, but never went to any elections. That's the only way they can talk about local sheriffs, the ones that never went to any of the elections. Because if someone goes to the polls and if the citizens will, and if he wins those elections, then no one has the right to disrespect his victory, no matter who chose him, it's the will of the citizens, so I agree with you here. But one thing you said, so citizens want to choose people, not parties. That's not true. Citizens want to know who they choose, so they want to know that if they round up Mark and the party here and there, that this ballot goes to Mark and a clear party or if it's an independent list, etc., so he wants to know who he's going to go to, and not like it used to vote, and he doesn't know ultimately who his mayor will be. He's voting for the lists, and who's going to be mayor, that's what he'll agree on later, not to call it another name after the vote. So this is good. He's voting, he wants to know who he wants to vote for. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25964	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25965	So here's a very short, in principle perhaps a slightly clumsy expression in this part, of course, that the voter for the list, that the list is already made up, is it a party, of which party or independent, but on that list, so what you said to your colleague Calmeta wants to determine which man he represents and represents, because that's the last time I mentioned where, for example, the Chitluk municipality, so in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a man who was the last person on the list was elected, and they weren't chosen who were ahead, is a very simple example, and that's the part that should be. I totally agree with you, of course, who hasn't tried that bread, who hasn't tried to fight for the programs, who hasn't tried to put himself in front of the citizens and be right in front of them can hardly discuss it evenly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25966	Thank you. Next up for the debate, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. Well, here's a lot already elaborated on these two laws. I would first of all say that we see from the explanation that the minister carefully read the debate in the first reading, many suggestions he accepted, I am particularly pleased that he accepted and returned to the law of the provision that there is a civil initiative and a civil initiative for the shift, i.e. the impeachment of the directly elected leader, and that he left out that set of provisions on how to choose the head. There remains a reserve that will be in the second law, then we'll discuss it when it's in the second law. I really think it's a good direct choice of leaders, that it's a good institute, that citizens know who they're going to choose to be their leader in their local self-government unit, but for the best and for the most honest intentions, that doesn't mean that he has to be untouchable for four years. I agree that it is not necessary to call them local sheriffs, in fact, they are not, if you read well much less of the powers you actually have now than they had when they were headed by the head of the department the way they were elected, after all, they did not have a provision on the limit of self-determination, the availability of the assets they have today, so they alone cannot do more than one million kuna, or that limitation to the budget for smaller units. No matter how secure they must be in the conduct of their duties, there should be some mechanism in the case of changed circumstances for any reason, change of conduct, systematic violation of the law, if you want to be boastful of your citizens, or whatever you want, that the same citizens who chose them have the possibility of, of course, re-entering a democratic procedure and recalling it. We can doubt whether these provisions are good and I don't think it's good, because really determining percentages in a way that takes 20% of the total voters enrolled for the initiative, and for the recall, to vote for the denunciation 30% that's going to be for one, here's colleague Calmeta saying that in smaller units with these percentages it will be possible to change very often, but in large units it won't be possible at all. So what we were saying in our first reading is very difficult to make a uniform law for a 1 in a thousand population and for the City of Zagreb, of which I don't know 750 thousand, because that percentage is in one small mud 20% of voters, let's say it's easy to collect, but already in the City of Zadar where it's 14 thousand inhabitants is quite difficult, I apologize if I offended some Korčulane. So that some percentage range might be worth thinking about. The next thing I'm warning you, and I don't know if that was the intention, perhaps, is that, in Article 5, when we talk about liability, or exemption from the responsibility of a member of the representative body, we've defined it wider than it was for the representatives, so now we've said that a member of the representative body can't be prosecuted, and it can't be held responsible in any way, and that probably refers to that famous case where a parliamentary representative is charged with damages due to a spoken word for a pay phone. It's also quite questionable, because it can really cause some damage, and you have to watch what's being said, even at the pay phone. So all I'm warning you is that these exceptions are bigger than for MPs. What we also objected to in the first reading, this is not considered by the applicant, and that is the number of members of the representative bodies defined in paragraph 4, we believe that the population range is I think, here are the colleagues saying, that the population range is one to almost twice, and that the fixed number of members of the representative body. So if we're... The range of voters, then there should be a range in, that is, the population should also be a range in the number of members, and should be left to the local self-government to choose the number of members of the representative bodies itself. [[You don't understand.]] One more thing. In the Law on Local Elections, the condition for a passive voting right for a leader is that he must have at least 6 months of residence in the area of that unit, for a passive right for a member of the representative body of that condition. Whether this reduces the importance, I am talking about the Law on Local Elections, passive voting law has no condition for a member of the representative body to have at least 6 months of residence in the area of that unit, whether we consider that a member of a representative body that is possible and a council president is less important than a leader, I think he is not, so maybe that condition should be kept there. And please, Minister, certainly this in the first, if something is questionable then says that on the day of the election call decision there is a registered residence in that unit, but there is no condition for it to be 6 months as it is for the leader's condition. In Article 7, one language expression that I ask you, I will also put the amendment in the spirit of the Croatian language, you can tell me that it was in the former law, yes, but it was not good, and that is to say that, that elections are held simultaneously on the third Sunday of May every fourth year. The Croatian language may be the month, it cannot be a day or a week or anything else, according to which it is said on the third Sunday of May every fourth year it is known that it is May. This is suited to the east and east, in Serbian they say something happened like this in October of the month, but in Croatian it is known that the name of the month is and does not need this. Something about running for office, a ban on running for office, and I think it's too late to intervene with the amendment now, but I want to warn you. So he says voters who are police officers, employees of military personnel are not allowed to run in the armed forces. So we have a restraining order against police officers, police officers and military personnel. We warn here that we have a number of duties, from judicial officials, lawyers, members of the conflict of interest committee, which is a condition that they are not members of the political party. The sense that they must not publicly show their political commitment. Now imagine one situation, and we prescribe the law for all life cases, that you are running for election by one of these people, let's bring to absurdity a judge or a member of the board of directors of conflict of interest, and then go to the campaign and present himself politically and then when elected decide whether to accept this or the function. So I would put one general formulation there, that all those duties on which political action is forbidden. Article 8, something about a term of office. Let's say the mandate of the MPs was determined to continue until the next call was established. For the members of the representative bodies at local level, this is until the decision to call the elections is in force, so they do not stop their mandate by establishing the next council. I ask what is the case with individual representatives of the representative body as well as with the representatives, so MPs and after the disbandment of the Assembly act in a series of external bodies where they are appointed just as representatives, and act in those bodies until the next term is established. I ask what will happen if someone is elected to a local body just as a member of a representative body, or a member of a council, somewhere in institutions etc., what will happen to his mandate, will cease his mandate there or be as if he has been silently going on until now, but I think there is no reason why this mandate has not been resolved until the establishment of a new municipal council or county assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25968	Thank you very much. Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25969	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25970	Thank you. And the last Branka Juricev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25971	Thank you, esteemed vice president, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So I agree that after the last regular local elections in May 2009, we were able to detect certain problems resulting from the fact that the executive powers previously exercised by the representative bodies, through the powers of selecting the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, have now passed exclusively into the jurisdiction of the elected, and I welcome all those provisions of the law that have spoken more specifically, or more specifically about these problems and situations. Since I have experience and have been elected mayor in the 2009 direct elections, and I have been before when the city council showed me confidence, I have a kind of moral and political obligation to warn about some of the problems that this law may face. This law should be strengthened as you say by the interdependence of the representative and executive body and by the introduction of the institute simultaneously disbanding one and the other, as stated by the resolution of those who are together and elected. He further says that you want to strengthen the authority of the municipal mayors, mayors, or mayors as their responsibility, and then the following article states that members of the representative body cannot be held accountable in any way because of their vote, statements or opinions and opinions expressed at the meetings of the representative body as if that were the case at one time. My experience and my relationship in both mandates is good, and I am very pleased with it and probably that in all units of local, regional (regional) self-government so should not talk about, and discuss certain situations, but I hear that after the adoption of this law in some units of local self-government will be a choice once to twice a year. There will be an even more frequent crisis between authorities and new elections. I wonder in such environments, obviously very problematic, who will at all be willing to take on the obligation to run that work, the municipalities or the county, after this, to introduce this law even worse. If you wish to have a rightful person who has a certain knowledge, who is willing to learn everything that awaits him, and colleagues who are, who are, and are, acting in that capacity, or were best aware of it. All of us who do this know what is in today, which means putting our signature on different documents nowadays. In the same person we are lawyers, economists, builders, and social workers and psychologists. Again, we need to remain available to our citizens and know who has shown our trust and who we need to be constantly available to. And, of course, if there is a person who could do this, you should have the will and courage to leave your life, the exact life, not just your workplace or private business in which you should be successful, because surely no one would even remember that one could be the leader, even if he was a failure until then, but also his life. And then in these troubled environments where there are frequent crises and where the mayor of one party and has no majority in the council must put his life in the hands of his councilmen, who have neither given him a mandate, nor expressed confidence. This proposal also requires that a representative executive body be disbanded at the same time if no budget is adopted within the legal time limit, i.e. a decision on temporary financing. Why should a leader who has proposed the budget in the legal and legal way that the representative body did not want to adopt him be relieved? Also, why the representative body should be disbanded if the head has not even submitted the draft budget, so the budget could not be adopted. Do you know that the representative body of amendments can so much change the budget that the leader is no longer able to implement it at all. Some councilmen don't have enough knowledge, and they need to be powerful. I believe that most colleagues in particular in smaller environments have had similar experiences like me when a councilman asks you why we're making this decision or that decision, and you answer him that it's in accordance with the law, he says, and why we councilmen can't change the law, they don't even know what's in their jurisdiction. Many councilmen think that by being council members they can change the world and not just the laws or their mayors, mayors and mayors. Therefore, the excuse that the elected mayors of the city council together must be changed simultaneously leads to new problems. After all, the same day has been elected by both the mayors and members of the county assembly, so why not change everything at the same time? Another segment she would pay attention to, says when it comes to the financial resources needed to implement this law, and the way in which they are provided is that the implementation of this law will not require the provision of additional funds in the state budget, as well as in the budget of municipalities, cities and counties. This is true that you were guided by the principle of economicity when you said that after more than half the term of office, the leader and his deputy in order to save and ensure continuity all goes on, but you forgot that this law, as I said in many areas, will lead to new crises and frequent elections, and then requires large financial resources. For example. in the budget of the Sibenik-Knin County for 2013 elections, funds of 2 million kuna are provided, in my city 300 thousand kuna, and this should be added to what you have prescribed in Article 90a of this Law, that persons who carry out their duties professionally at the end of their duties exercise the right to pay and an internship for another 6 months in full height and all this on the burden of the budget of the municipality, the city, or the county. In addition, the possibility of calling an advisory referendum on issues and self-government of the representative body is also prescribed, and then Articles 25 to 28, which relate to local self-government, make new commitments independently of their opportunities and local opportunities. It should therefore not be carried out that this law requires no additional financial resources to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25972	Thank you very much. Replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25973	So I have distinguished colleagues of these double experiences, and even negative ones, when some councilmen in that system sold themselves, and I listed them for what reasons, and I told them who bought them and how it came to power, and so on. But aside from that. I wish I had heard these words of yours on behalf of the HDZ Club, because that HDZ club didn't stand open, it didn't stand open about and shift, and. ... No, I didn't hear that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And here's the denial of me, you have the right to reply, so say it loud and clear, and we're against it being replaced at the same time for not getting a budget directly elected head and city council or county assembly. Here's what I'd like to hear loud and clear. You were the only one who didn't tell the ministers that you would accept it, although you announced that you would accept the referendum, now I am insulting the Rules of Procedure, but since you are throwing one more time, I urge you not to be the gravedigger of democracy in Croatia, but rather accept these amendments not to give you after the replica, that we are not wasting time, here and the minister is waiting to talk a little bit about the municipal economy, accept the amendment, call on the co-ordination of the Government and realize that we are very seriously talking about the big problems that are going to happen. Don't be the one who'll be the undertaker, but accept the amendment and realize that it cannot be replaced indirectly, directly by the elected leader. It can only be through referendums and citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25974	The answer to Branko Juričev-Martinchev's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25975	Thank you very much. The HDZ Club stands in the same way as said in the previous law, these are the changes that have been made so that the councilors can also be replaced so that they can replace the directly elected mayor. This is thus clearly said in the opening part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25976	And Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25977	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Martinchev, it is true, you have given me the thought of actually giving the Commissioner any councilman whose request through the amendment is not satisfied, and the budget is not accepted, the mayor is removed. He can actually do it every year, so every year elections can be expected in any municipality or city, and we from experience that we in local administration and self-government know that individual council members, I will not say, but I can say that they are actually blackmailing local authorities leaders through these amendments in order to actually meet their demands, which is the hardest of those sports clubs where the amendments are very, very large. That's what I thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25978	The answer to Branko Juričev-Martinchev's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25979	Thank you very much. True fellow, we know where the councilors come from, they are mostly or from some suburban settlement for which they have unreal requirements about building any playgrounds, sports halls, to being presidents of football, handball and similar clubs, and also have demands worth half a million and more kunas for their association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25980	Proposer's closing statement, Minister of Administration Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25981	Thank you, Madam Vice President. These qualifications of councilors, etc. ... who you put on the list, and that's it. [[You don't understand.]] As far as this debate is concerned, I would like to refer to only one part of the comments made. So the government of the Republic of Croatia and any party to the coalition did not consider replacing the Institute of Direct Elections of Mayors with what was until 2009. If such an initiative comes from any political party, I think it can be thought of, as Mr. Mlakar invited Mr. Mlakar on behalf of the HDZ Club, and if consensus is reached, then we'll see what we're going to do with it, not now... , while such a system needs to find a good balance between responsibility and interdependence between the executive body and the representative body. [[You don't understand.]] I am aware that in this way with this instrument of simultaneous choice the positions of the representative body will be strengthened something stronger than the mayor is now, and I hold that it is good, and I hold that it is very legitimate that someone thinks it is not good. Also, as far as the number of elections is concerned, if only formally viewed, it would not result in additional elections, because elections are going when the budget is passed, only so far were elections for the council. Of course, such an institute will increase the likelihood that some political parties will try to provoke the elections by thinking that they are better at risking the elections and getting the majority in the council and the mayor, or vice versa, and will already see in the first case whether the citizens will approve those who have executive power, or whether they will approve those who have caused the crisis by not making a budget, and that will be decided by the citizens. Experience shows that citizens, i.e. directly elected mayors, are easier to confirm the mandate than these indirectly elected, so I think that this personal decision for the mayor, mayor, mayor, etc., so that they are in a better position and I hold that they are given a greater chance of re-election, if it comes to this, they get a majority of the council and for the next three years they can behave normally, than that they have been scrawling with a city council that is actually one kind of co-habitation, and I would dare say that every mayor whose general interest is in front of their own, so that risk would accept, apart from those who, of course, are afraid of the elections and who, for the sake of conformism, want to remain mayors regardless of their council, but I allow that there to have different opinions. As for the two-year deputy, etc., it's a provision that we don't change, it's now in the law, and we're just discussing it, we're even making it a little bit better, because so far, if there are two deputies, the one who's decided who's going to be the one who's changing it, now defines that it's the first one that's been on the list and there's not twice during the mandate, so you don't have to be afraid of this second one, the other changes to the staff. And I believe that, therefore, it's actually good, because you'll have the chance to make it easier for the deputy mayor, the mayor's candidate for deputy mayor to implement a certain humane long-term policy, and that some people who have proven themselves at local level to have the opportunity to promote themselves at national level, which, in addition to 2003, HDZ did, Mr. Schuker was Mayor of Great Gorica, became Minister, Mr. Kalmeta was Mayor of Zadar, became Minister, I'm not going to, maybe I'm going to make a mistake. And I believe that when you propose candidates, you'll already think about what happens, and that's good, so those are rules that you know in advance. Also all remarks and all objections to that institute are also legitimate, and indeed when citizens vote, then vote primarily for the chief, but they choose together with him the deputy chief who, without having the mayor resign from the first, not since 731, or if the guilty year of 732. days can change in full scope, only this mayor on paper, did not resign, did not come to work, etc., to discuss that you will be the deputy of this one who does not come to work support because she is coming to work, but well these are now. These are therefore rules which are known in advance, which may have certain observations, but are not entirely illogical, which are not entirely logical, but are more logical than some others, and therefore, we also accept this recommendation as a legitimate remark, but we believe that this solution is better. As far as technical matters are concerned, especially with the referendum. We haven't changed the regulation on the number of signatures needed to initiate a referendum, it's 20% now and some other things in the law we haven't changed now. Maybe if the amendment comes to fix, it's not a problem, so fix it, including this language, but we did, and now of course we've discussed it in the first reading, this year until the election. In my first reading, I read actually a declaration on the stability of the electoral right of the Venice Commission, and I tried to argue that we stuck to all three principles in that declaration, and I'm not going to repeat them now, unlike that change in election units that wasn't in that declaration, but that wasn't the problem. I believe that the proposal that was worse than what we have now is bad, that it might have been a better proposal, might have been a different welcome, because actually we in the electoral system are not changing anything, we accept what Mr. Bacic said in the past, in the first reading, about the number of council members, but it is possible to change the statute now, so, but remains a majority election for the mayor and remains a proportional election for the council, with one constituency. The only thing we don't do is carry out extra elections for a deputy in the order of national minorities, because this has caused especially in the counties of additional costs, a relatively small exit was, so we put this into one electoral process and, of course, their role as deputys in the order of national minorities is more or less will be as it has been so far. If they can fit into part of the mayor's team, then they'll be one of, one of the deputies is equal, if they're not, then they'll be what the ficus is saying, but we know that, however right to, they'll have a position from which I can say something, at least. So also, as far as some other things have been said in the debate. Is it okay to replace someone who is directly elected or not, I would remind, so representative bodies and members of the representative body are a constitutional category, and mayors, mayors and deputies are not a constitutional category, and a direct choice of mayors is actually based on a rather flexible constitutional provision that citizens can decide directly on other issues in local self-government, so this was also the basis for introducing a direct choice of mayor. The reason for the introduction of a direct election of mayors was the case that during the term of office could change the mayor and elect another mayor, now cannot be elected second, now the citizens will re-elected that same mayor, if they are satisfied with him and are not satisfied with the council, or they will choose another mayor represented by that majority in the council because they are not satisfied with this first mayor, or where it is tightly re-elected by the mayor from one option from the council and other options, but they will suffer the consequences of such a elected authority, and therefore the costs will be borne. ... I agree, but it is a choice of citizens, there is no one else who can elect his representatives to the council and mayors other than citizens. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And therefore, I think that this institute at the same time of elections, at the same time, will make a little positive shift in the political scene, that representatives of the various political parties will try to agree, because I think that in local, local and ideological and other differences are not so much that they should cause an extraordinary situation in the municipality and that they can, and hopefully, I might be a little naive, but let me still be idealistic for a while, that various political options will agree on that I can at the local level together. Which coalition was for the mayor of Vukovar established by six parties, when you already spoke to Mr. Boric about the coalitions and lost, but perhaps in some other context such a coalition could function. Dear ladies and gentlemen. And one more thing, so as far as passive voting rights are concerned, my position is that everyone has the right to run. If someone's going to choose a mayor, or they're going to vote for a list on which someone who's convicted is, and now we can count, I don't think it's a problem that someone could run, but it's a bigger problem what citizens vote on for such candidates, but they won't be able to behave in that capacity, and citizens are themselves in that way legitimateized, then it's a problem, not whether someone is going to be a candidate or not. I really believe that, and I'm against the fact that anyone is being restricted to running for office. And maybe there's going to be different opinions here, but here's my view that no one should be allowed to run for office, and for the conduct of their duties are obstacles that are in the law now. In the case of passive law for members of the representative bodies, I think that even now the provision is that it is not limited how long they must have residence. We didn't change that. For the mayor, it's six months, and it's now, for council members, we haven't changed, and the question of how correct it would be since this deadline of six months has already passed. So now we would actually now limit the running for someone who's right to pass the law, and that wouldn't be very correct, so that was it. And on the other hand, the question of the possibility and the purpose of verifying such, so we have somewhere thousands of candidates or 2,000 for mayor, somewhere 20 grand for councillors, so put a state apparatus to check the residence for something that still doesn't have that much justification, I don't think it's good, so for those reasons we didn't put that into law, too. As for the termination of the term of office of the representative body, we have put in place a solution that is not like for the Croatian Parliament, but also for the Croatian Parliament to decide on the disbandment and can be met exceptionally in the event of a war situation, etc., and the Mandate-Immunity Commission could meet during the constitution. As for the representative body, therefore, I do not think that it should be met under wartime conditions and since there is no immunity other than this for the spoken word, I hold that there is no need for them to continue their term of office, as far as this silence is concerned, it is the same thing that happens when the council is now disbanded at the end of the year, so it is not defined either, if there is a better way for that to say that hole to patch up, then we can see how it can be intervened, but I don't think it's crucial. And now only the question remains whether the mandate of members of the representative body will be put up until the constitution of another. I don't think you should. So the moment the government calls the elections, when it makes a decision on the elections, it's about the same as when elections are held for the Croatian Parliament. There is no need for the state of war, and now until the election, a representative body is meeting and making some decisions or for the absurd to be greater until the constitution of the second representative body, which means until the election of the president, so they can, the new representative body can meet for the first time and not choose the president, and that the old representative body has a mandate because it is not newly established. Then they meet twice, they don't elect a president, and the old representative body still has a mandate. We have therefore put in the proposal that their mandate ceases by making a decision, and the new representative body unless it is established in the third attempt, then the Commissioner comes and makes it the continuity of the representative body. So we have one part, two months until the constitution when we will not have a representative body or commissioner, but we have this in the Croatian Parliament and during that period the executive body can technically make decisions, as the Government can on the same principle when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded. Here's the honored ladies and gentlemen, I hold that, with legitimate remarks to this one institute at the same time, which is really a major challenge, and I hold that he is the biggest change in these laws, and these other remarks to this two years of 730 days which can therefore be legitimate, but not change much in the overall system, all other provisions are still more or less acceptable and accepted by most clubs, so I believe that these laws will contribute therefore to better elections, and I believe that on Monday, after the announcement of the State Statistics Office, we will also get the results of the census, so that we can enter into the new year with the exact number of deputy chiefs from the minority order, the number of council members, the total number of council members we choose, which is reduced by 7 thousand by one hundred, so it's about 2%, because we're still paying attention to the number of council members. We will be clear about the amendments in the vote, and I call therefore on the MPs to accept these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25982	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. The first is Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25983	I won't talk about naivety and idealism, but I'll talk about practice. Here I am once again asking you not to go on an adventure, I am not afraid of the choice, as far as I'm concerned you can move Milanovic to Djakovo for 6 months so let him run, he will be defeated. That's quite clear. On the other hand, I also passed through the man who was looking for the city cemetery, who was a councilman, and I passed those who sought employment for mistresses, for wives, for sons, for daughters, I did not pass the only betrayal of two members of my former party. Unfortunately. I'm afraid so. That I didn't pass,... I haven't been mayor for five and a half months. [[You don't understand.]] This and this system, we return what it was. We're entering an adventure, and so will the mayors of the SDP present, regardless of cohabitation, only they must remain silent at this time, because they cannot speak so openly. I can't say that on the board. We can talk about the development of democracy, we can talk about a new promotion of relationships about someone that, that someone will get someone to cooperate, and let's work with HDZ in local self-government. It's a war on knives, they take out machine guns, they play dirty. So let's be open and talk. What do you think will come to great love, great understanding, and reason when making a budget? So what I said will happen, I will accept as mayor of the 20 amendments, the amendments will be voted, then there will be a vote on the budget and... Winkovic, we were joking a little bit, not to use a harsh word. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25984	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25985	And that's how it's gonna end. Everywhere. I'm just an old cat. It's not gonna happen in Djakova. I'm saying that for other local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25986	A colleague of Vinkovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25987	Which will have five, six elections in four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25988	You often warn me about the Rules of Procedure, and every time you speak 20, 30 seconds longer. Col. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25989	Thank you very much. Well, maybe today we've spent a little too much time on some kind of conflict between mayors, commissioners and council members. One thing, few of those in Croatia who, without a fat support from the party behind their backs, can win elections, and as mayors, mayors, mayors get with the help of the party, so parties or coalition parties run lists, the legitimacy of one and the other is identical, which means that someone has achieved a terrible success, the party stands behind him, or a coalition of parties, and that the council members who passed the list have not achieved any success, and the parties stand behind them the same. So that's one thing. The other thing, talking about someone being able to blackmail with a budget are stories for little kids. When you look at the structure of the budget of the unit of local self-government, then you will see that you have what's set out in the law, what you have to finance, and you have no chance of not funding it, you have acquired the rights that you have to finance and the logical thing is that the budget is primarily a matter of political agreement between those who act in power, that the policy that in the unit of local self-government is governed by the arrangements that the municipal infrastructure projects will do. And so glorifying that story is simply not good. What is not good in this law, which is what will happen if any anomalies happen, some kind of conflict that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not suffer, and I think it is a key issue which unfortunately has not been resolved in the old law, nor has it been settled well in this law. Bringing down the story of someone blocking someone, I think it's just funny. The law should answer what will happen when certain, I will openly say fools do stupid things, and suffer citizens. It's a key question, and unfortunately we haven't solved it in this law, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25990	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25991	And I think your whole concentration should have been focused on that, because I've tried to give you reasons that simply suggest that someone can't do God himself knows what.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25992	My colleagues and colleagues, we still have six laws to do tonight, so please take care of the weather. Josip Boric, replica. Or you want to work Saturday, I mean it doesn't matter to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25993	This is a very comforting vice president of the Parliament, that six more laws. But good. Here's the minister, interpret the Constitution from situation to situation, when it suits you, when it doesn't suit you, you call on the same one, but it doesn't matter. But you didn't answer, and you said I was a mathematician, logic is your strong suit. How is it possible that because of the savings in 731 days, and we still have a leader, and in 733 he leaves, and in a thousand and I don't know 70 days, so in the third year of the term, we don't get a budget and we go to elections, and yet we're talking about saving. What makes sense is that on the one hand we can talk about savings, and in the other article we are not already talking about the same savings. Does that make any sense to you? I don't think so. And give up that budget, because it is the basis for the opposition of all debates in two readings. They'll only create problems, and there's your mayors at the counseling that you've given them, don't make it difficult for future leaders to do their job, because they're having a hard time anyway, there's a mechanism that we've all come to together, it provides enough opportunities for the local leader, if he doesn't work well-replaced, with the help of these same citizens, and you don't need this other mechanism, because he creates the lability of the system, opens up space for corruption. And then, of course, one mayor who's convinced he'll be mayor again like his colleague Vinkovic is afraid, because he'll be replaced after six months, he'll be mayor and he'll have one or two councillors like he does now, so of course he'll be replaced. But that shouldn't be the point of the law. The aim of the law should also ensure stability for such people, so that they can implement their programmes and plans. This is not how the Minister stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25994	Replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25995	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I've been impressed by this ease of yours in the final, these various combinations, how it's going to work one way or the other. I may not have been able to do well in the end to be honest. But in a way that we have been here for many years in this local self-government, we express concerns, concerns about what will happen, what are the possibilities, which will be harmful to local self-government. And now you say one thought, he says, so he says time will show who the citizens will, how the citizens will sign off on one or the other, right? Oh, dear God, it doesn't matter who they sign up to, you know who loses the most, Mr. Minister? Well, they'll lose those citizens themselves, and most of all, those local self-government units. Well, he doesn't have to approve me at all, so here I am the fourth term head of the community and he doesn't have to choose me at all, and I don't care if it's at the expense of my unit of local self-government, here's my thinking. And the other thing, it'll cost Mr. Minister, it'll cost, I'm sure it'll cost. And the other thing that's a harmful thing, the continuity of those projects will be lost, we know very well what continuity means, and the projects will stand, and we know how much effort it takes to make these projects. So you see for yourselves, you're acting government at the state level how much humanology you understand in all sorts of areas, how much difficulty that's causing you. I know very specifically the area of agriculture, the paying agency in agriculture, and you see what happened to that agency a short time ago, because it went right away and let's say to change that lady who worked there, and we finally got a slap from the European Union. That's the way to think. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25996	Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25997	I'm glad to see you've been impressed by the ease I've explained. I'm going to answer all four lines in one, so most of it, actually I totally agree with Agent Shucker, when he was talking about legitimacy, the way, etc., and I believe that we will, and since there's no time to do this right now. ... Then you won't be impressed by the ease of yelling. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I believe that, in fact, in the conversation after, I believe and define what it is yet to be done to stop these as you have spoken to the fools, and they will primarily need to be stopped by citizens so that they don't choose them, if they make mistakes then to change them, that the decree from the committee or from the centre, from anything that replaced local leaders, is unfortunately not present anymore, we have two institutes, one is a referendum, the other is a budget, if it isn't a third institute enough, it might have been asked after all. As for Mr. Boric, I was just watching, so I was just watching where Mr. Vinkovic is, he would probably be thrilled with yours, that he wouldn't be or he would be, but as far as 731, 366 or a thousand 96 days, after the fourth year, elections don't go, because they go regularly, so that's one measure that's more than half a term. So maybe it would be good to write that the second day after the election the mayor can resign and that the deputy can change it, then it would probably be an objection to what the athlete says, so he goes to run, then someone else gets elected. However, half of the term of office, I think it is the right measure to determine when it can be changed by the deputy, and that deputy may then be subject to the institute and the budget and the referendum, so if the citizens are so dissatisfied that the deputy can also be replaced, then the elections will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25998	Thank you very much, Minister. You're running out of time, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on both laws on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u25999	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, Second Reading, PZE No. 184. The debate on the text of the law is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, respected representative Branko Hrg, respected representatives Zoran Vinkovic, Josip Salapic. I ask the Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk, to plead. Croatian Labour Representatives' Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26000	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26001	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26002	The amendment is not accepted, elections for the Council of Local Committees by adopting the previous amendment are in the jurisdiction of representative bodies to determine when elections will be called. As far as the local self-government system solution is concerned, I also announced a proposal for a new law that will systematically address this issue. Until then, I think it's dysfunctional to fight for both local committees and locals, etc. They are held in the same day because they would have, therefore, one large, large number of elections and election units and candidates. And so I'm holding that this should be resolved in a different way, rather than the election being the same day.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26003	Honorable representative Branko Hrg as a motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26004	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I don't agree with this explanation by Mr. Minister, since HSS has a lot of local officials, especially in smaller areas, and we know what local self-government means, then I don't think this would cause any problem in the elections, and that it would certainly give people the opportunity to decide at as low levels as possible, so I don't think that this kind of reasoning stands, and that elections for local committees would contribute far to democracy, development of democracy, and especially since in these laws, most local committees can even ask for some referendum issues, so I think that this sample would be anywhere and where better.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26005	Are you asking for a vote? It is. I ask you to plead with me on the amendment of the honourable representative Branko Hrg, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of Honored Representative Zoran Vinkovic and Josip Salapic, Amendment number one to Article 46 Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26006	Sustained. The Institute of Simultaneous Elections in the event of budgeting allows citizens to resolve the political conflict between the executive body, so the mayor, the mayor and the mayor and the majority in the representative body. Those who have chosen them should therefore have the opportunity to resolve their conflict.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26007	Proposer representative, respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26008	Thank you very much, President. Ministers, we believe that the proposed amendment would result in the instability of the authorities because there would be frequent disbanding of the representative bodies, while disbanding the representative body and directly elected mayor, mayor and mayor first and foremost creating the instability of the authorities. There will be frequent elections, increased costs, and we believe that this is not in line with democracy and the Constitution, that the directly elected leader is being replaced in a way simultaneously with the representative body because of the lack of budget. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26009	Please state who is for amendments of MPs Zoran Vinkovic and Josip Salapic whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to amendment number two of the same MPs. I'm asking the minister to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26010	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26011	I would like a representative of the representative, who is again representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26012	We believe that the conduct of the elections for local self-government was at the same time as the local elections before the elections were given greater legitimacy for local self-government due to greater voter turnout, and thus to reduced costs in local elections because 10 per cent of voters who go to local elections in this time period as the solution is now, we believe that it is quite illegal, in order to save money, and to give greater legitimacy to common elections. And we're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26013	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment of respected representatives Salapic and Vinkovic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. The adoption of this law requires the majority of votes by all representatives of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I beg your pardon, who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 89 for and 37 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, are in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to establish and draw up the consolidated text of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was reached unanimously with 126 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26207	And we move to - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the municipal economy, second reading, P.Z. No. 186 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. The opening exhibition will be submitted by the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is before us on 12.12. here we propose the 12th Amendment of the Law on the Communist Economy. So it's about one of the longest laws since '95. The year has been changed 11 times so far, with this change and addition, it is proposed that jurisdiction to resolve first-degree solutions from the responsibilities of large cities, from the ministry as the central body, be transferred to the counties, i.e. the City of Zagreb. This is an important change that is proposed in this way we think it would be more efficient, faster and more economical to issue certain solutions. At this time, about a hundred requests, or complaints, come to the ministry, would be faster and citizens would get answers to their complaints. In the first reading when it was law, then it was, there were remarks which were said that obviously the time had come to make one complete revision of this law, we will indeed do so, as you had the opportunity to see through these changes and complements on that path since '95. So far, on several occasions a series of activities regulated by this law have passed some other laws, and it is indeed time to make a new Law on the municipal economy and to see through it what these activities are to be done here. So it's about changes that allow us to decentralisation, and that's how we appreciate that our citizens will get a faster and simpler solution than it is in this way that was proposed by the 2011 amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26209	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is the HDZ club and counterpart Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26210	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy, as we said in our first reading. Nothing compared to the first reading has changed, and we only expected that our debate at the Croatian Democratic Community club would change in some way and bring our argument into line. In fact, this time in her introduction, the minister specifically said that with this Law on the Communist Economy, we are returning to me the resolution of complaints about all acts in the area of the municipal economy that are being brought into the first degree in large cities to the county level. So last year's novel of the Law on the Communist Economy is, all solutions brought by municipal companies in units, in large cities, to which all public authorities were transferred to the level of the ministry and all solutions of administrative departments, cities, large cities, and related to municipal compensation and municipal contribution were transferred to the level of the ministry, then construction, spatial planning and environmental protection. We did so at the time when we were the Law on the Communist Economy, as we have brought a large number of laws in the Republic of Croatia into line with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes, at the time how the negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union by experts of the European Commission, accepted the suggestion that for large cities that, according to their financial capacity, which, by their administrative capabilities, often exceed the possibilities of the county, then those large cities that number more than 35 thousand inhabitants or which are the county headquarters, should, according to the solutions that bring their administrative departments or municipal companies, move to the level of the ministry. It's done. And now with this law that we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club support we return to the county level again. But what is not good and what is wrong in the explanation is said to return to the counties the responsibility to resolve the decisions of local self-government units in the second degree, when it comes to solutions of public companies to which certain public authorities and public directors' solutions and local self-government administrative departments have been transferred, when they resolve in the section relating to municipal compensation and municipal contribution. So this is nothing new for the county, the county administrative departments have been handling this since 1995 when the Law on the municipal economy was passed, until 2011 when we changed that. So the counties continue with orderly resolution in the second degree for all units of local self-government in Croatia, except for large cities, and now here are the clear powers that relate to a secondary solution for large cities and cities in which counties are based. So we believe that this is good, that we are again strengthening the position of the county, and this is also for us in the Croatian Democratic Community programme. What Ms. Minister said, it seems to me that this is the 11th novel of the law and that the Law on the Communist Economy is one of the longest laws in the Republic of Croatia, which has undergone numerous amendments and additions. I said this last time, that it would be good for the ministry, given the new circumstances and the new part of the work that the units of local self-government, in the section relating to the municipal economy, to take over in the first row of the waste management section, and which obligations to the units of local self-government stemming from Chapter 27 of the environment and related to waste management in a particular unit of local self-government, that the ministry would take care of it, and I also say of the 11th novel of this law through which it is very difficult for those who are using this law to do so, so that it would be good for the ministry to propose a new Law on the municipal economy, which would, in addition, in a new way, solve many relations and when it comes to the part of the waste management. And therefore, here is the conclusion, so we at the Croatian Democratic Community club support this law, but we also propose that the ministry move forward to amend the new Law on the Communist Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26211	Thank you very much. It's up to club IDS and colleague Damir Cain, who he doesn't have, so he loses his right to speak on this wheel. SDP club and colleague Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26212	Dear Madam Vice President, dear ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Communist Economy is before us. It's one of our longest laws, passed back in '95. He's been through a lot of changes to this day. It sets out the principles, way of carrying out and financing the municipal economy, and other issues relating to the purpose of carrying out the municipal activity. This final proposal provides for the re-transmission of responsibilities on the solution of the appeal to first-degree solutions from the management area of the municipal economy for large cities from the central body of the auctioned public economy administration to the administrative authorities of the county. Since jurisdiction has been transferred since April 2011, so far there are about a thousand 500 pending cases of appeal in the ministry, or as the minister has warned us that we receive 100 complaints per month in the ministry, last year's change of jurisdiction for it has not solved the problem of employees in the ministry who will handle these cases. The return of this large number of subjects to regional self-government is objective to expect that the same items will finally begin to be resolved. Furthermore, the transfer of competences from the central authority of the state administration responsible for this area to the administrative authorities of the regional self-government units in the same area will result in greater efficiency in the provision of municipal services, as regional self-government units are closer and faster in communication with citizens, i.e. local self-government units, and are better acquainted with the situation in individual cases in the field of their work. It is also necessary to comply with this law with the decision on the harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Croatia, with the Penal Code, which provides for the obligation of professional legislators to make regulations to avoid overlapping legal descriptions of infringements and criminal offences in the preparation of the draft regulation, which contain infringements of the same provisions under the Penal Code. On the basis of these reasons, and since the implementation of this amendment and the addition of the law do not require additional resources for its implementation by the SDP club, it will support the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the municipal economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26213	Thank you very much. It is next to the HNS club and colleague Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26214	Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since we are still waiting for 6 more laws tonight, and in the first, we have seen in the proposal of the law in the first reading what proposals and changes in this Law on the municipal economy were involved, and that these were essentially several procedures that may have been more reckless at one point, that there has been a change in large cities in the matter of a certain appeal procedure, that this was all forwarded to the central state body, or to the Ministry of Economy, the practice has shown that in a short time over a thousand 439 unresolved problems have occurred. We at the Croatian People's Party club believe that this law should be completed, because it was made, this law from 29.4.2011 in 49/2011. the year of the People's Newspaper, that he was done in good faith, but that practice proved that this law and its application were not what we wanted. So this change that even large cities, regardless of their financial capacity, that even as a second-degree body become state administrations at the county level as... complaints, we believe that this part is good, that it is a kind of decentralisation, but not a fiscal one, but a decentralisation that will allow the competent state body at the county level, above all faster, more quality, and which will be more clear about which problem the local self-government unit is concerned, to solve this part more quality and faster. [[You don't understand.]] As far as Article 5 is concerned, The Law on the municipal economy, it is in line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision, the harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Croatia with criminal law, that is the National Novine 70/12, where the criminal provisions of this proposal, this new law, will be in violation of the provisions. What is also important to note, that Article 18 of this Law, that exactly those activities and powers of the municipal director, also against solutions brought by municipal directors, is again the second-degree level of the county. Most of these are more than, more changes that have the character of adapting to the real situation, and surely in front of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, it is an obligation for all of these laws that we have coordinated this year, surely that during next year we will adopt a quality, new law, which will first of all go to the hands of those who want to invest, that this procedure be as short as possible, the faster and the club of the Croatian People's Party will surely support these changes of this law, because we believe that they are going to be effective and a solution to, on the issue and complaints of citizens about certain decisions relating to this procedure. The HNS will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26215	Thank you very much. HDSSB Club and counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26216	Dear Madam Vice President, Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDSSB Club will also support this amendment and the addition of the Law on the Communist Economy, but at the same time advocate and require real and structural amendment of the Law on the Communist Economy because many of the provisions of this law no longer correspond to real life. I will only present one example relating to companies in ownership or local or regional self-government that have in their composition a series of activities from waste disposal, water distribution, waste management, some other types of municipal activities, however, the Law on the Community Economy at this point allows it. By 1.1.2013, however, such companies must be exempt from drinking water and disposal, but this was not defined by the Law on the municipal economy but by the Water Act. Here, if I didn't owe it any further, there was certainly a question of contributions, municipal fees, the issue of financing these I wouldn't say to the imposed offices that were state administration offices, employees fell under county administration offices, without that fiscal decentralisation because this is a kind of decentralisation, and I would much prefer it to come and that right fiscal. So there are a number of issues that are justified to go into one full change to this Law on the municipal economy. Thank you very much, and I'll see you in Djakov on the 18th.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26217	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Damir Cain. He's not present, so he's losing his right to argue on this wheel. God of Calmeta, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26218	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister. Well, that's very short.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26219	A colleague of Vinkovic's, but now you let your colleagues speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26220	I don't mind him. Well very briefly, I also have no objections to this law and clearly support everything that my colleague Bacic said on behalf of the club. It is good that this goes down to the county level because the counties, cities and municipalities are somehow the government closest to the citizens, and I certainly won't say it better, but it will get rid of it faster and more effectively and that's why it's good. What I would only comment on is that in the assessment of the election, the necessary funds are said here that no additional funding in the state budget is necessary for the implementation of this law. Maybe if it's just about this law and it's true because it used to be, by some logic and analogy... the other employees are still doing it, and they're going to do it. But I just want to, but it's not about you, Madam Minister, I just want to warn that units of local self-government and county are getting more and more commitments and that there's actually one functional decentralisation going on, but there's no financial decentralisation going on, and if it goes on and if all this is going to add up, then it's going to create a system down there that's not going to be sustainable from the financial aspect, that I'm not now counting what all of the county's obligations are getting, and that's not being accompanied by adequate financial resources. Therefore, the law and I support it, but I warn that if we are already giving what is good, we are decentralisation some things and some activities, then this should be accompanied by adequate financial decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26221	Thank you very much. And Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm making the most of my debate that I've prepared on this agenda point, and I'm just going to concentrate on three or four things, and I'm going to do it in two, three sentences. I think it was in 2007 when the counties in Croatia took over the offices of the state administration in the county headquarters, and this concerns the issue of local and construction permits, in 2009, beautifully, they took over these jobs and employees, and cities over 35,000 inhabitants if I'm wrong. After that, sometime a day ago, the Preschool Law means 250 to 550 hours of preschool minimum before the first grade, the founders take over again, and they have to pay for it. Co-financing of the transportation of high school students and now this is happening. I am convinced, it is not a questionable fact that by transferring competence from central state bodies to the county better to do the county, but I wonder where the end is. Countys such as mine, for example, Brod-Posavina and all 5 Slavonian counties are financially very weak counties, and when making the budget, I also stressed that the Brod-Posavina County, for example, is co-financed by the State budget of 9 and a half million kuna, that this is reduced by 5 million kuna. And repeat what's true that countys are a dragon without teeth. To give them something in the amanet to do, and that's what the employees are taking, and that doesn't follow the financial means, I don't think that's good, and that's what needs to be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26223	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26224	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy, second reading, PZ No. 186. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 128 votes for the adoption of the Law on the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the municipal economy in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26225	We will bring together the debate on - Final proposal of the Law on human organs transplantation for treatment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 227. - Final proposal of the Law on the application of human tissues and cells, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 225. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the proposals for the bill, Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Marian Cesarik will explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26226	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives in the Croatian Parliament. There are two laws before you – the Law on human organ transplants for the purpose of treatment and the Law on the application of human tissues and cells. It is important to stress that the Republic of Croatia has achieved a remarkable increase in organ donors over the past 10 years, so from 2001 to 2011. Thus, from 7 per million inhabitants in 2001 to 33 organ donors per million inhabitants, and for the last two years she has positioned as the world’s leading country at the rate of donors and organ transplants for kidneys, liver and heart. So, according to the Council of Europe, the Republic of Croatia is a transplant newsletter. Croatia is at the very top of the world according to the results achieved in 2011. Croatia is the world's first in the number of realized donors, the world's first in the number of kidney transplants with dead donors. So 53 per million people, the world's first liver transplants and the world's first heart transplants. So we have extremely good results, and we're proud of that, and at all the conferences, we highlight these good results. Therefore, before you this proposed Law on the transplantation of human organs has been adopted in full by the provisions of the European Parliament's Directive on the safety and quality of the transplant bodies. The proposal for a law on human organ transplants for treatment purposes lays down the conditions for human organ transplants, transplants for treatment purposes including donation, procurement, testing, identification of donor and organ characteristics, in the storage of transport and organ transplantation. The legislative proposal lays down the principles of the donation of organs, methods and conditions of taking organs from a living or dead person, and measures to protect donors and recipients of organs. What are the reasons for the law being passed by emergency procedure? Therefore, it is about harmonising with the EU acquis so that all sublegal acts are adopted in the first and second quarter of 2013 and all legal and technical preconditions for full implementation of the EU, quality requirements and safety for the exchange of bodies at EU level are ensured by the date of accession. Croatia is already obliged to ensure the same quality and safety standards of the transplant body as other Eurotransplant members because of the international exchange of organs. I'd also like to say a few words about the Law on the application of human tissues and cells. Therefore, it regulates the area of quality and safety of human tissues and cells for human use in accordance with the requirements of the EU Directive. This legislative proposal lays down provisions on the conditions of donation, collection, collection, testing, processing, storage, distribution and use of human tissues and cells. Both of these laws that were before you earlier were governed by one law – the Law on taking and transplanting parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment. Therefore, this legislative proposal lays down the conditions for consent to the donation of tissues and cells, ethical and legal issues, the consent of living donors, and continues to practice the assumed consent for deceased donors. The concept of a tissue bank and an authorised laboratory for donor testing shall be established and the conditions for carrying out those activities shall be laid down. And what's most important is generally in today's health system, so the quality control system. Here we propose that these two laws be passed by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26227	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. The first is the club of Croatian Labourists – the party of work of colleague Nancy Tyreli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26228	I'd like to thank Madam Vice President, the esteemed deputy with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here is how Mr. Deputy Minister has already stated in the introduction the basis for the adoption of this bill and the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The application of the Law on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment has well regulated the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body and of the organs and tissues of the living or dead person for transplantation for the purpose of treatment. Therefore, with the aim of harmonising domestic legislation with the proposed law, new EU acts on quality and safety standards of human organs intended for transplanting itself are being taken over. We believe that on the medical-legal side, new law proposals well regulate the conditions and legal framework of human tissue and cell use and human organ transplantation for the purpose of treatment, but here is the existing law that the topic was also very good or even perfectly solved. However, we consider it controversial that, in the usual procedure, every draft law is pushed somehow through an emergency procedure not through regular procedure, and whether this is the excuse for the legislation of the Republic of Croatia to be brought into line with EU directives. It is also disputed why two areas are separated, the application of human tissues and cells from human organs that were in force under the law as such united. We believe that the motives behind the proposal may be a little different in nature. Namely, the section of Croatian health care related to organ transplants as already cited by the deputy is one of the few parts of the health system in the Republic of Croatia that has excellent results. In the last two years, the Republic of Croatia has recorded a record increase in the number of donors, 87%, and organ transplants, 58% and is positioned as the world's leading country at the rate of donors and transplants. The good results of the transplant programme are used in relation to perhaps these two draft laws in order to less debate the really large changes in Croatian health care that are expected in 2013, which is primarily the reduction of health services that a insured person can use in the context of basic health insurance and therefore increased participation of citizens in order to get a full health service that we consider a major step towards further privatisation of health care and the collapse of public health. In addition, the separation of these two draft laws in relation to the applicable law allows for the easier privatisation of cell and tissue segments for treatment purposes because the organisation, coordination and resources related to that part of organ transplant are extremely expensive and are therefore certainly unreachable for now in the case of privatisation. We must warn of the crucial problems in health, so here I am also taking this opportunity and certainly not a good practice of using emergency procedures to maybe focus attention from those burning problems on something else. I'll be brief, I won't be long, but I would certainly ask the deputy here later in his final presentation to let me know why a law that is as good now separates into two laws, so especially organs and special tissues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26229	Thank you very much. HNS Club and colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26230	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, my dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the dear Deputy Minister and Assistant Secretary. This is why I could not, of course, miss the opportunity to talk about something that is good, and in which the Republic of Croatia is the first in the world it is a really rare situation, I am sorry to discuss it at 8:00 in the evening, it may be a topic that we could talk about before because as this bill itself tells the public how important it is to be an organ donor is also one of the key elements of this success and key elements of the development of this programme. Of course, we can be proud of the results we have achieved and the whole system. We in Croatia have a long tradition of organ transplanting and a very high rate of success and large centres in Zagreb, Rijeka and others that have really gone far in this. So what's ahead of us as a key task is maintaining the level we've reached. We must therefore work on teams, on their development, on their education, we must work on modernising and constantly monitoring the most modern technological achievements in this area, methods and procedures. And that, of course, will be important to keep an eye on and keep track of the whole situation with the resources available to us for the transplant program because it's really not cheap sport. The next important thing that this proposal and both draft laws mention is coordination. This is one of the problems in our systems in Croatia. So we need to be careful that the coordination of the entire health system and everyone else, so from the educational follow-up that participates in the awareness of the public and in the process of donation and organ transplanting, is as strong as possible. And, of course, the second part of that coordination is international coordination, our full integration into international flows and institutions as regards organ donations and transplants. What is particularly good, it is not a newspaper of this law but I would like to point out, what is particularly good that we in Croatia have this system that we are all donors unless we have written against it in advance. It's something that certainly helps, which helps success and what really needs to be kept and should be preserved. The important thing about these laws is to keep confidential information. Unfortunately, we live in a country where information that should be trusted is often not confidential. This is about very sensitive relationships between people who can end up in serious criminal acts. So it's important that we keep this system of confidentiality of information, improve and really have no problem giving information to those who shouldn't. One question I have regarding this first organ transplant law is that those misdemeanor provisions prescribed fines from 80 to 100 thousand kuna for legal persons. My question is that since it is really very sensitive issues and really some violations that can be extremely dangerous to people. My question is whether this maximum prescribed penalty is enough and actually enough, and should we not perhaps consider that in some expert cases the punishment is even greater. And just a few more words about this other law regarding tissue and cells. It seems to us unlike the Labour Club that it's good to separate these two laws, it actually seems to us to be one of the key elements of these changes and additions. The development of science, the development of procedures these two processes increasingly separates into two separate colossals as much as the issue of tissue and cells can be used and not only for the purposes of treatment but also for aesthetic purposes, and then probably in some variants can also have commercial use. So it's certainly good that these two laws are separate and that's absolutely what we agree on. We particularly support and warn that as soon as possible we need to develop and establish a system of banking, tissue banking, which is certainly the basis of one of these, the whole of one of these systems. And there's one illogicality, Mr. Deputy, which I would warn you about, so explain to me either I'm wrong or think about any change. Therefore, Article 17 of this second law says: "the tissue can be collected from the child and from the adult person who is not in a business capacity if all of the following conditions are met. And then the first condition is that the recipient is the parent, brother or sister of the donor." What about the baby? It is a fact that in Croatia relatively few children have children but statistically this possibility is possible but it is much more likely that a person who is not in a business capacity has a child, and here this law does not state that even if a child is a recipient can be a recipient without consent. So it's something I'm asking you to think about or correct me if I've lost something. So, really very briefly I will conclude what is the key to both systems is to keep this very high level that we have achieved in Croatia, to provide sufficient resources for the development of the system and one more thing I would like to highlight. Importantly, this is a branch of medicine that is really progressing rapidly, here are research on a daily basis bringing new opportunities and treatment and life-saving and I hope that we will have enough power in Croatia to take advantage of the part that both our science and our scientific and all the expertise and knowledge that exists in our medicine, to be really and in this part of the research and hopefully then in Croatia and in some relevant world-renowned achievements. Of course the HNS will support this. I don't even have to stress that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26231	SDP club and colleague Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26232	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy, Madam Assistants, colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club supports both laws, both laws, a bill on human organs transplants for the purpose of treatment, and a bill on the application of human tissues and cells with a final bill of law. Namely, the proposed laws are being taken over, of course, by several provisions of EU acts. Within the framework of EU membership and the provision of free exchange of human tissues and cells between Member States, it is necessary to ensure their uniform quality and maximum safety of the transplant bodies, as well as other euro transplant members. As regards financial resources, they are planned in the State budget and these funds are planned on the same activities and capital projects and are not actually possible from those exports and amounts to determine the amount of individual waste to be implemented by each individual law. In fact, the law took into account the fair availability of recipients from the national waiting list and in line with transparent objective and generally acceptable medical criteria. Legal regulations prescribe the obligation of accreditation of transplant centres and teams involved in the procurement and take-up of transplant bodies, then the way in which donors are evaluated and tested using unique procedures related to the transfer of information and what is very important insurance, each institution must provide a very good system for reporting the harmfulness of possible events or adverse reactions. The conditions for transplanting human organs and ensuring the quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation or for therapeutic purposes are then defined. The grips that take place either by taking any transplant, they must have medical justification as the most favourable method of therapy. It is also arranged that the authorities, in fact, are prohibiting donors and recipients from actually any new cash compensation transactions. The law gives provisions and the taking of organs from a living organism or from the dead. The organ transplant in the Republic of Croatia began in 71, and that first transplanter, the first transplant was from a living donor. Then next year it was also done with a dead donor. By adopting the measures in the resolution on the incentive to transplant organs, it shall record a further increase in the number of donors. The numbering indicators were discussed by the Deputy Minister, so I wouldn't say I can only express my satisfaction that we are the first in number in the world, our inhabitants of Croatia. I always say that they have a big heart that we always show in all actions and then they say you don't have to know foreign languages to speak with your heart. Our fellow citizens speak with their hearts, or they speak with a donor. One more thing about the use of human tissues and cells. Namely, various diseases cause damage to the body cells so that heart attack or heart disease causes damage to the heart cells, Parkinson’s disease of the nervous system, diabetes mellitus, etc., etc. And exactly the stem cells that we call that are also high hopes in medicine of this particular stem cell, they could actually restore these resulting damages. The stem cells are immature, undifferentified, they are said to be both ommic and multi-potential cells that can actually differentiate into all of the necessary cells that will serve us for this one, so they are said to be the hope of medicine. The source of stem cells is the best source of umbilical cord because they are the youngest cells and also bone marrow. It is known that bone marrow cells can restore the host’s bone marrow and start production of new blood cells. This method, as we know, has become a standard in leukemia therapy, then aplastic anaemia and other blood system diseases. We've been witnessing the establishment of banks in umbilical blood lately, i.e. Also a sign of technological progress, and I hope that there will be an increasing number of donors in such banks. In Croatia there are also two banks to store stem cells from the umbilical cord, which is a voluntary Ana Rukavina and a family or family bank of umbilical blood for their own needs. Here I have to mention Anna Rukavina, the young girl who woke up in us in all of us, who has entrenched us and who has awakened our awareness that we can help others, that there is basically a cure in us, and that is what is called another action that is carried out by the Ana Rukavin Foundation. And these days we actually have and the first surgery was made, and now we're reading from the media a few days ago. The first surgery to transplant cardiovascular tissue stored in the KBC tissue bank in Zagreb, it is the first such bank in not only Croatia but in the whole region, so you know that these valves were done mechanically, but this time it was used just as a valve from a tissue bank. So, colleagues and colleagues, Croatia has one of the most modern legal solutions in the area of transplant medicine in Europe, and this very proposal of the Law only works to perfect the same. All those who have actually received the gift, all those who have been saved, will be eternally grateful to the unknown good people. I think we all have a chance and a donor card that was created in '96, and by signing it, we can publicly promote or donate organs for the purpose of treatment. Therefore, in this way we can show our nobility, our charity, our solidarity. So we all have a chance to be these good people, and in the end I have to say that I knew a beautiful young man who unfortunately did not welcome that good angel of his. Here is a colleague and colleagues, of course, from the beginning, I said that we are adopting all these amendments and supplementing these laws, and we hope that Croatia will continue to bear such a prestigious name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26233	Thank you. Replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26234	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I couldn't resist since you were from the ruling coalition, just for that. Otherwise, this topic is known to me as any average citizen who reads about it in the media. So I must say that the time at which this debate is being held is certainly not an example, at the end of the day, of the number of MPs who are here is certainly not suitable not only for this subject, but especially for this topic. And I think it's a serious failure and that this is really a slap of democracy in Croatia. This doesn't go to you personally, this goes completely to all structures or anyone who can decide something about it. We're talking about things where the public is mass sensitized, they're encouraged by some noble parts, and then we're doing it at this time and this way. And on the other hand, I have to admit that maybe because of that, maybe even after 13 hours, it's definitely and impossible and so day by day that people keep their concentration in me, they suspect that these laws are knowingly packing and something that's targeted I'm going to promote, and I'm sure I'm going to promote it. We don't see what we're supposed to see, let alone something about it is still well-hidden. Is this pushing some form of privatisation so that one day Croatia will be, I heard the question yesterday, we will be the Earth, we have given for legalization of prostitution and we will be the country of such a kind of tourism. Now I wonder if we might be a country of tourism where people will come here to trade with human organs. I know this is an exaggeration and willful exaggeration, but it's just for a reason that we're a little bit of a distraction and this is how important things are at this time of day with this many MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26235	Comrade Novak, this wasn't a replica at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26236	Well, my colleague didn't quite understand you, I have a feeling that you've been complaining that this isn't the time, that you're doubting this law, so I'd just say in this law you have nothing to doubt about. Well, I think every one that we don't need this law to regain consciousness because in Croatia it's so high consciousness and so does the numerical indicators that we have around the world on a transplant scale or donors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26237	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club on behalf of Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26238	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club will support both of these laws, and both of these laws are actually in line with EU requirements, so I don't really think there should be any problems here. They reflect the fact that Croatia has made a huge leap especially in the last five years since the full member of the Eurotransplant in 2007 is actually in organ transplants, of course, it is good that we now have in accordance with the European requirements of two laws, one dedicated to transplanting the organs of other human tissues and cells. And especially to highlight this success is actually in the transplant of an organ that is manifested at a high rate, an increased rate of donors, I'm sorry I didn't welcome the Deputy Minister and Assistant, so today we are truly at the top of Europe and the world as far as this is concerned. Let's just say last year, so in 2011, a significant rate of growth was recorded all over 10% and as regards donors and transplants and reductions in the waiting list, etc. So we actually have a series of very successful transplant centres in several places from KBC Zagreb, KBC Rijeka, Mercury, Dubrava, Osijek, etc. and of course something that is also very important two years ago and last year 2011 when Croatia gained the status of the Regional Health Centre of the South East European Health Network for the Development of the Donor Programme and Transplant Medicine in the countries of Southeast Europe, which is also one recognition of what was actually made in this field. What's also important to point out is that there is one whole series of complete problems I would say, so I would stick to it even though it's not directly perhaps the subject of these two laws, and that is the question of what happens to the transplant itself in terms of funding. Now, when we look at the items in the Budget, they're slightly reduced and when you look at it, it's not very much reduced, it's reduced by a few percent compared to last year. Therefore, these few percent would not be at all alarming if we were not to realize that the problem of transplants is unfortunately not completely resolved, nor will it now, and the future problem will only grow. Let me explain a little bit to you what this is really about. It's true that there's already been allocated funds for the transplant program for some time now. However, these allocated funds are financed exclusively by the transplant act itself, so it provides financial resources to make kidney, heart, liver, etc., but the biggest costs in these patients are not related to the transplant act itself, they are linked somewhat to the preparation of donor preparation but are not prepared for the one who gets it and after that are huge costs in the treatment of these patients who are transplanted. Namely these are not healthy people after that, they thank God they can function, they can work etc. It is a huge improvement in their quality of life, but they have to be constantly controlled, they have to take very expensive medicines, they unfortunately have every so many serious health problems that require very complex and very expensive treatment. Not rarely, as the number of transplants grew strongly, then the number of complications of course later also increased. These people used to die now they live, but they also have a number of complications, from late organ rejection, say what is then extremely, extremely expensive, to different infections serious to life, threatening states, etc. All of this is unfortunately not financed by some special means but falls on the burden of an institution where these patients are being treated or where the transplant was made. And now we have one situation that's paradoxical at first sight, this significantly increased number of transplants have also caused a significant burden on the capacity of these hospitals doing transplants, so they have to provide beds for these patients, they have to have them when these patients come because they're threatened, they have to be hospitalized. Even when it turns out in two, three days later that life is not a serious condition, but you can't really play with it, they have to stay in the hospital, they have to be diagnosed, and many of them of course have serious health complications that must be treated. These serious health complications very expensive for the rest of their lives are not covered by special financial means but fall under the burden of the institution. So on the one hand, the success of the transplant facility is, in fact, in some ways, and, on the other hand, on the other hand, under quotes to punish myself with greater spending that cannot be avoided, it's not a waste of money, it's money spent on the benefit of the patient. However, these are significant, significant means that are thus actually being singled out. What does that mean specifically, let's say I can tell you if no one actually admits it and it's not perceived at all as a serious problem, unfortunately and it's getting bigger because it's significantly just increased the number of all these transplants. The differences are huge. So these patients are paid by those DTS, for example, for transplanting autologous bone marrow transplants, I can say one example of patients on my suit who was, which could have been invoiced, rounding 132 thousand kuna per DTS, and so much has been paid and the patient spends one 400 thousand kuna and now with only one patient, one patient actually created a significant disadvantage to say so. Of course, it was spent on the benefit of the patient, of course that the patient remained healthy, but that money fell on the hospital's burden and if you calculate that there are hundreds of thousands of kunas in this particular case only on one patient when you have tens and hundreds of such patients, then it is rising to millions of kunas that are actually spent from regular hospital funds and from no special means of transplanting and which are not provided with anything, and that this is the case and that the problem will be increasingly clearly speaking and items from the 2013 budget. In those items, when you look at them for stationary health care versus rebalancing, so this last rebalancing, so really spent money is projected 2 billion $600 million less for stationary health care. It is that for 2 billion 100 are given more polyclinic health care. But half a billion are gone, and the other you can't handle these patients, these transplanted severe patients in the infirmary. You have to take every such patient into the hospital, you have to seriously diagnose him and most often very seriously and expensively treat him, and there will be less money from these numbers, so you understand if for stationary health care you have reduced 2 billion kunas by 631 thousand, you realize how much less money there will actually be for hospitals and the cost of these care for these patients who have been transplanted is growing. So that's something that we all need to be aware of and what we need to be aware of and those who are dealing with it and those who are talking about funding. Another law that speaks of the application of human tissues and cells may be an even better example because at this point the only thing that is really funded is the cornea, the corneal transplant. Everything else, all the other tissues fall on the burden of hospitals or institutions, specifically, are always hospitals. So how to finance, say, what you read about sometimes in newspapers, stem cells, umbilical blood is very popular, etc. Therefore, only from the so-called private banks, so what people store there, that extra money that the hospital has to spend and invest for actually the public to say the banks of umbilical blood. Skin banks are not financed by anything, bone banks are nothing, heart valve banks are not financed by anything. All this falls on the burden of the facility at this time is one institution, I guess there will be more, it's about top institutions, clinical hospital centres, etc. It falls on their burden, and their budget is drastically reduced in the budget. So it's going to be one huge problem, so success in the transplant is as good as it is good and, of course, useful and we should encourage it, we should praise it. So much he, on the other hand, as well as many other things where we are very successful and good financial actually endanger the institutions that exist because they are not designed for this special means. And without special means, I don't know how your programs are gonna work any further. Of course, I just want to point out once again, the HDZ club will support both of these laws, they are good, they are good, they are good, but I felt the need to point out this absolutely unresolved problem of financing these zg+care of these patients who are seemingly resolved and beautiful words can be said, it is too late to have the means to cover it and not cover that most of the costs are not covered at all, but it must be financed from the funds of hospitals that are drastically reduced budget and this will seriously endanger all serious patients who have to be treated in hospitals, hospitals cannot set up large polyclinics and large hospitals, and from this budget as we adopted it will happen, with top institutions, clinics, clinical hospital centres will do so, we stimulate polyclinic forms of protection, so these are medical procedures, these are gastroscopys, etc. what can actually be done in a number of other institutions but we'll make top institutions do it, and what top institutions should do, take care of the most expensive patients, they won't just have money for it. And that's something that's just an example of these transplant patients actually need to be in front of us to see and to make it clear that this is a problem that we have to face that we have to try to sort out because if we don't solve it, I'm afraid that these patients are actually going to be very bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26239	It is up to the HDSSB Club and counterpart Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26240	Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. Well, here's the academic Reiner actually shared with us at this late time for those who may not know one situation that has been more or less old for decades and which actually refers to those problems with which KBC Zagreb and Rebro have been dealing with for many years, because in Zagreb, in fact, there has never been a problem that is a hospital for citizens, which is a clinical hospital and this is one problem that KBC Zagreb has been carrying for decades. And on the other hand, he tried to share this burden price that really falls because in all the more sophisticated procedures that happen, patients eventually end up with some post periods ending up at clinics and these are additional costs so... plastic in a way to show why Rebra debts are almost equal to the debts of all county hospitals in the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's somewhere but financial for debt. I would also be solidarity with one of the predecessors here who has cancerd that this really is exhausting to the end of this way of holding sessions and that in some way here are some valuable things that come and may be positive for society and as topics that might be affirmatively discussed and transferred if we want to and the public in a full assembly, we are actually providing a picture of indifference to those who may be able to see and on the other hand is the fact that actually there are no representatives here, not because they would not be, but because people are tired, exhausted and after 10, 11, 12 hours more cannot physically function, so it is really a question whether this kind of exhaustion is really necessary for us and whether the Croatian Assembly is really voting machinery that must do all the things that the government has to do in front of him, or the Croatian Parliament that should try to improve their relationship in the way of the Republic. But if I were back on this subject, I would welcome these two laws as predecessors. As some predecessors, you would also ask yourself if it is necessary, given that the articles of the law are almost identical, we have a station, a tissue and an organ that is necessary through two laws, that is, if it is so regulated then so. As far as the fact of the excellent results of the Croatian Transplant Programme is concerned. That they stand, ours, are these, those first places really like that, I really didn't know, here's the deputy minister saying yes. Otherwise, Spain was known as the country with the largest donor in Europe. The average was 34, 35. Here it says that the Republic of Croatia has 34.9 per million inhabitants, but in any case it is commendable, part of it goes towards the Ministry of Health of the former and the previous one who has actually consolidated and institutionalised the efforts of those people who before that tried only to lead more and more initially, and transplant programs more or less successfully, and when one time in a quality way institutionalised, when they connected with adequate bases, when people who do so were better paid for what they do and they encourage them to actually develop and progress, then this result is also being realized and I don't think there's really any obstacle since we Croats are truly and kind and solid and that we have this feeling of empathy for the need of another man, I think that even if there is institutional support that there is no reason for this programme of transplanting and increasing in time to come. There's still some problems. So there are some bodies and some transplant areas where the Republic of Croatia is not at the level of those developed European countries but there is also space, it will actually need to be in time to educate certain people, refer to education and actually increase the number of transplants that are being carried out for certain target bodies. There's a big difference in these transplants, there's some cold transplants, there's those that work immediately in real time after you get to the organs so that it's technically quite different actually procedures although here only lists the organs individually. But I'd only focus on one more thing here and it's a matter of donation. So this issue of donation in this bill is the same as before. So the body from the deceased must be taken for transplant purposes, it is the same with the tissue only if the donor for life is not in writing opposed to the donation, which meant here it is continued that the adult professional capable person was giving the selected primary health care doctor a written statement about it. In practice it has not been applied and has never been applied as far as I know, here I am being denied by the Deputy Minister, so the additional consent and consent of those who remain behind the deceased person who is thought to take the organs from. Because it's simply a real state, we are now not now anticipating again, nor in this bill do we anti-citate the reality that no one is ready, regardless of the legal solution, to take responsibility from someone who has died, to take those organs without asking his family or his wife or children. We continue to take that same solution again that it should not be done, but in practice it always does, and if it is explicitly opposed, no matter what the law allows, we are now closing our eyes again and prescribing the same solution that has existed so far. Because simply really who's going to be willing to take organs from some person, regardless of which she didn't explicitly sign that she didn't want to be a donor. Also, the written statement that someone does not want to be a donor is given to a selected doctor of medicine, and then in the case of minors, persons with a certain, blind and deaf, dumb public notary. It's another obligation put in the arms of family medicine doctors. Why not make all these statements that someone does not want to be a donor give to a public notary and why, all of these statements, the public notary would not pollemize or or verify for free. Is there anything in this country that a public notary can do in the public interest for free since a doctor can do anything for free, is there anything a public notary can do for free. Does that have to cost? A statement from someone that they don't want to be a donor. Why can't he take that statement to the public notary and verify it for free, any statement and not that he is with a general medical doctor because it means your statement to a general medical doctor, so of course that the statement in the case of a court dispute is a serious problem and that is one of the reasons why none and one of the reasons why anyone is not prepared of course to take organs from someone without family consent, regardless of what the law prescribes otherwise. So let us include some of these notaries, and that they may do some of the useful things in public, for they are not worth anything. So can they do nothing in any form, in no solution to participate in anything of interest, in any public interest or interest of humanity in the Republic of Croatia, does it all have to end up on these doctors of general medicine? In the end, this is an urgent, urgent procedure so obviously this, it will now be voted this way, but here's actually more for us to think about and do the motions if there's a chance for something to change to think that maybe it's simply how things are dealt with in the future. There's a series, a series of solutions that could be solved that way. Therefore, this solution that remains that organs from the deceased are allowed to be taken for transplants if the donor is not entered in the form is explicitly opposed to donations, it does not actually stand, it is not implemented and it is not actually ethical and it is quite. However, the good part of both family and parents and spouses when faced with the situation realizes that part of their deceased’s body can generally help someone else to do so if that is the case. So here's the agreement for these laws, and these proposals, if anything, then perhaps later, we should try to apply them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26241	Thank you. Replica Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26242	Dear Madam, Vice-President Djurovic, you know exactly what you said, in fact, that we always ask patients, but I think it would be very bad if this set was in the law that existed and in the previous law to throw it out. I think it was a good piece of work years ago when it was put into law actually helped to increase the number of donors. We have to be aware, everything is wonderful and wonderful today, for the last five years, up to seven years. Let's remember the situation until about ten years ago when the climate was actually different. Many considered it for entirely mythical reasons to understand that I did not know religious reasons or cultural reasons or so on. In fact, they're defending organ donation. Of course, that was completely wrong, because let's just say we know it's about 18. The World Transplant Congress in 2000 said that it was the first time that the pope went to a convention and came to a convention and clearly said those famous words of his all that could serve a living sin was to be buried. Personally so and all the other religions, practically relevant, even Islam that last accepted it but since 83, Islam has actually accepted the same gift as a normal thing, etc. There is, however, a series of religious, cultural reasons, etc. prevents donations and so in Croatia, among other things, other than the great effort of a series of people, except for the entry of 2007 into the eurotransplant, but this item in the law is also... The whole story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's true that we always ask the family and I think it's okay to ask the family each time but it gives us an extra one foothold, I'd say one strength actually to enable an even greater donation of organs that are very important. So I don't think it's one thing that's compatible with the other, but what you said about public notebooks, I totally agree, I think it should be in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26243	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26244	Well, thank you. I also agree with you on this first part with the fact that I think this society is changing so quickly so that those attitudes that once existed, I think they've changed to the greatest extent that it's going to be less or less questionable given that if there's nothing else here, I'm going to, as far as I'm concerned, I'd really be willing to always help to make such delusions if there are in the Christian and religious community changes as it would also be, and I'm going to argue that this model of health education is not being implemented left-handedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26245	We're moving on to an individual debate. Stjepan Milinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26246	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am, although in the course of the debate, almost everything that was to be said, I will, since I have applied to say a few words, although I personally hold as my colleague Novak said that this time is a psychophysical possibility for us, this but certainly even though my colleague Hrelja and the other day said that he would appoint me as a committee to assess the psychophysical abilities of the MPs, but in any case I will get involved in the debate and say that it is already a valid law because it would be good to have the debate in terms of watching. Now some other shows are being watched. But why? Because of a very important fact and this is the availability of organs available for transplantation, and in this sense raising awareness is extremely important, and then this figure that was raised from those 7 to a million to 33 would certainly be equally significant and that is truly commendable, that consciousness and that number. I want to be in this place even though it's not the subject of this law, I want to say that perhaps in that part there is a need to mention willing donors of blood. I come from the county which is one of the first of the voluntary donations of blood and in that part are also recently celebrated, marked a day of blood donors certainly deserves their place and it is also a very important act of awareness of citizens alike in this important area. Therefore, the applicable 2004 law also sets out the conditions for the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body and respects the Convention on the application of biology, medicine, on the protection of human dignity. The amendment was then followed by these Directives of 2004 and 2006 in the part of the same negotiating chapter 28. Of course it's important in this part and organisational form, although we're the first transplant done, done in 1971 and certainly the organisational form may not have been most optimally solved, so there's now a transplant office at the ministry and I think that it has a significant role in any case and that it can contribute. So here we are also witnessing this data that we are really successful in these areas of transplanting, mainly kidney, liver and certainly here as one year is listed in 2011, but it is necessary to say for such achievements that are important means that have been increased 100% is a word, it is very important. But you need to say that the fund of expensive drugs has been raised to 450 million, so the fund that serves also helps in this part of the human body's transplant, that's certainly important. Furthermore, since this 2010 Directive is also binding and as regards both the quality and all other moments already mentioned, it will certainly improve further quality and perhaps also the need to mention this licensing of institutions, but which will be in a great deal of trouble to which House Reiner Vice President spoke and because of these reduced limits because these funds are significantly smaller and that this should be taken into account in any case. Secondly, as far as these tissues are concerned, it is certain that they are already said to take the very important part of the treatment and there is and the profession was in some way obvious that it would be good to separate it and colleague Bonačić spoke very nicely about the bank and the foundation of Anna Rukavina, and in that part I have nothing to add. So I would only mention a transplant of rose transplants that may not have been mentioned enough, so I might have singled out because, until recently in Croatia, corneal transplants were not routinely applied and fresh corneas were used for transplants, so the establishment of the eye bank allowed proper and controlled collection and storage of corneas. So it's also important to mention in this part what might be important, and in this part and surveillance is kind of improving. The supervision is therefore improved by those inspectors who will oversee it, along with this licensing and these institutions, will certainly further improve this important area, while of course noting that material resources are very important, and in that sense I will also support this law, both of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26247	Thank you very much. The final word of the promoter, Deputy Minister of Health Marijan Cesarik, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26248	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I can see that I have 30 minutes at my disposal, but I promise you it will be much shorter. Since I'm a doctor, I'll only be a minute or two, if I were an educational worker, I'd probably be 45 minutes. But for a while, I'd say that Spain was once in the world for organ donation, but it's not anymore. So it is difficult to get to the first place in the world and it is not easy to maintain it and Croatia is now in the first place in all of what I have listed. It is also Spain, and now Croatia has one of the highest values in this law and it is an assumed consent and without it cannot maintain this high status in the world by donation and by transplant. I would also point out that there is also a register of non-donors, there are around 2000 in Croatia. So it's not that that possibility isn't foreseen. As far as this question is concerned, why are these two laws separated, or one law is in two laws, and from a simple law that went far ahead. So this development of biomedical or technological progress is exceptional, and the world, or the EU, is therefore a legal asset, which has required of us. Therefore, these two laws simply had to be separated because the application of human tissues and cells ceases to be restricted solely to the purpose of treatment. The method of collection and collection becomes significantly different from the same procedures for organs and processes of processing, storage and storage are further developed. All of these resulted in the need for new legislation in line with the development of the profession. Here's why they're here, and I think Mr. Igor Coleman made it clear in his speech why there was a separation of one law in two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26249	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. About both laws, we'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26250	Final proposal of the Law on the transplantation of human organs for the purpose of treatment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 227. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament become an integral part of the final draft law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, most of the votes, 124 votes for and 3 votes have been abstentioned to the Law on the transplantation of human organs for the purpose of treatment in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26277	We move to - Final bill on postal services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 229. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. The opening statement will be given by the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Sinisa Hajdas Doncic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26278	Good evening, Honored Vice President of the Parliament, Honorable Parliamentary MPs, Parliamentarians. Here is a brief presentation of the draft bill on postal services with the draft final draft law. First of all, it is the harmonisation of the Law on Postage Services with the third postal directive, which means that we are taking over legal property, which is the 2008 directive. This introduces full liberalisation of postal services markets since 1 January 2013 at the same time as 11 EU countries that have not yet done so but also their obligation to do so since 1 January 2013. So I'll tell you that the total market for postal services in Croatia's HACOM data is about a billion and 526 million kuna, and that of the total market, Croatia has or holds 72%. What do we determine by this law? We're setting up some crucial questions to put it that way. Therefore, only the right of monopoly to provide reserved universal postal services, which were universal postal services, shipments up to 50 grams. Then the postal services are shared on universal service, on replacement postal service and on other postal services by stressing that the operator's obligation is therefore to perform a universal postal service that five days a week in most of the territory of the Republic of Croatia actually performs 95% of the postal services. This specifically means that he must perform this service in some small places such as I do not know St. Peter in the Woods, Ugljan, Petrovsko, Tompojevci, so where there are post offices. Further way to determine the universal service provider that must be available at an affordable price, so the original transmission is... Therefore, it must be affordable for all users throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia independently, as I have said about their location. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are also giving this law the rights and obligations of the universal service to our public company, so that our public company, Croatia, is being posted throughout the Republic of Croatia for 15 years, with HAKO as a regulatory agency every five years to carry out a mandatory analysis of the market and reviewing the situation of that service. Which is then the task of the Croatian Post Office, so first of all through harmonisation to make the system I will not call double accounting, but I will say double accounting, which means that one accounting must have a commercial service under quotes and another accounting, which is therefore accompanied by the sole provision of the universal service. Why? Because the universal service will primarily be financed from the compensation fund from which the net cost of the universal service obligation is paid if that cost is an unfair financial burden, so again the word transmission... a universal service provider or HP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, if it is not possible through the compensation fund and through that double accounting to ensure the provision of HP services in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, it is also provided again in accordance with European practice that the funds are provided from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, with the application of the rules of course to that topic, with the application of State aid rules. In conclusion, all other commercial operators that can come to the market of the Republic of Croatia are also able to access the network of universal postal service providers, i.e. HPT, which specifically means that those in any location where HP has its own office, therefore that office must comply with, of course, a regulation that will be in some way in cooperation with HAK must therefore allow that third, or fourth or other operator’s postal company or company, so that it can do postal services whether they are consolidated or whether they are users of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26279	Thank you very much. The Republic has a colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26280	Mr. Minister, you said one terrible thing here for a pay phone, so the post office should run double accounting, so the post office is already running double accounting, but for what you said, the post office has to run each other and has to have a consolidated balance sheet. Since you're saying that on behalf of the promoter, since the record is an official document that simply may have slipped away, but that's something you simply can't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26281	There's an accountant and some people who aren't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Nada Turina Đurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26282	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So the parent board, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this bill at its 8th session. This law takes over the EU acquis contained in the third postal directive, introducing a liberalisation of the postal services market from 1 January 2013. At the same time, compliance is introduced with the provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic communications which, in accordance with the requirements of the relevant EU rules in the field of electronic communications, further strengthens the independence, independence and effectiveness of the Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency of the Joint National Regulatory Authority for the field of electronic communications and the area of postal services. This law proposes to carry out the transfer of inspection tasks in the field of postal services from the competent ministry to that regulatory authority. The debate held on the committee stressed that the law is very good, that it should be supported in general and that it is in some way a point on and on those obligations to EU directives. It is suspected that law enforcement could be a problem and that it should take care of the protection of the national operator and in this respect it is pointed to the provision of Article 16 which favours and in a certain way protects the national operator by giving it the opportunity to secure its position on the postal service market. After the discussion on the board, the committee decided with 12 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on postal services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26283	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first one's the club's turn. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Stranke work colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26284	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs and MPs. When it comes to this law, as the minister himself has said, it is a matter of harmonising with EU directives, so we can put maltenes on our heads and it will have to be that way. The colleagues who are better acquainted with the postal profession say that the law itself is relatively and good with some necessary changes, but what the practice so far has shown is not the law itself, but law enforcement, which has caused huge problems so far. Unfortunately, these solutions are not seen, or there is the impression that these solutions are somehow still far away and that they might happen to drown before they get that sleuf to save themselves in the meantime. This Directive also allows certain freedoms related to respect for the local characteristics of each country, but what I cannot resist is a reference to general EU directives. What am I saying that for? Because we respect the rules of the EU Directive and we have to stick to it blindly. So then we experience the situation now to say that the German minister says that the directive has been misread, the German minister, although it is Germany, he has this power, says that while he is not going to act on it, and before the European Court of Justice, it will appear that the whole, not all but this weak part of Europe misreads a particular EU directive, so we are otherwise inclined to turn out to be more Catholic and than the Pope and move faster towards implementing a directive, so we have made ourselves such problems that it is unspeakable. It's about the railroad, though. This law states, among other things, that it will not result in a government budget of any additional obligation, unless the compensation fund funds are sufficient. The funds from the compensation fund will certainly not be enough, although the promoter immediately says that it is impossible to predict them since this is the first year to be applied, so we will have all of this, all of these austerity measures, all of this insufficient charge of the state budget, we will now have one additional blow that is not too much to talk about, but among other things, I have asked the question whether 5%, why 5% is limited? I knew in advance that it was restricted by the EU Directive, but I also know that certain operators who are in that dam are already complaining that they are 5% too much, that they will not finance the loss of mail and such things. However, the fact is that these 5% will not be enough, and at the same time we are the last time saying to the newly-roasted companies on our market we have allowed them to pick up creams, i.e. to work only where it's worth it, and these are big cities, while that cost where you have really only cost, and these are unfortunately our teeth that we have more and more, it creates a loss for us and it will take over Croatia's mail just like some other public companies have to take on such obligations. And then we'll find out behind that that these companies are unprofitable, that they don't make profits, that they're just making losses, and we've legally given them everything before that, so they can't do anything else. And just that, and what I once said from this pay phone that they have the capabilities of David Copperfield, we couldn't get out any positive result, let alone what they are, is the fact that our Croatian mails have done the same thing with their business moves in the last few years, so many failures can even be said that there are a lot of material for Mr. Bajic, that everything and everything is likely to be found inside but we leave it to him. One part of the law warned me of colleagues who were closer to the branch seems very fair, it seems really impeccable at firsthand. However, there is one expression that has been very common with us in Croatia lately, which is the transparency of the price. Price transparency means something completely different. That you have to publish your price at which service you'll be doing, and then someone else comes along and he gives 10 a cheaper price. You had to publish yours, you had to be transparent. So it's not exactly when it says something that's transparent isn't always fair. I have one more thing to say that I'm not going to say anything, I'm not going to say anything and point my finger at something, but I can't say the past that we had, and we had a minister, and I think then it was called "sea, traffic and connections," and then after that, you didn't have to scribble right away, so behind that, you ended up being one of the key people in the telecommunications house. Before that, the legal basis was designed to be very easy to interpret, I don't know if anyone can prove it or can't, but it's not my place to deal with it, that it could have been even easy and convenient. So then we had this secretary of state who was working the same thing at the ministry in this same ministry, and I'm not likely to say again, but there's been some legal adjustment, and watch out for the same secretary of state in one of these rival HP houses. And let's just say now in the media it's loud that it won't fund HP that 5% is too much for him. Well then we had no sense not to mention the railroad, so we had the same assistant, the minister and the secretary of state who was in this same ministry and then ended up as the director of one of the railway companies where everything also seemed to be slowly adapting some things that were impossible to claim, impossible to say is from this aspect, but someone else should deal with it, so let him deal with it if he has material for it. I liked one sentence of your deputy at the board meeting very much, and I hope it's not just going to be so demagogue right now that I attribute it to you not every time we have to take care of national interests, in this case to protect the national operator. This national operator of ours has an immense wealth, although it should have been measured by now, and they should have written down all of their assets, but I clearly doubted that they are, and I'm afraid in this way how we do it all together, that it will either be devastated and collapse, so go away and simply be abandoned and abandoned by our national operator in these 15 years whether it will survive, we won't survive, we'll see it yet, it's too bad that because of the work so far, everyone can't really generalize and say all but the greater results show that the administrations have contributed to this situation, and I'm afraid there's room for further destruction of our operator here, too. And just one more detail, and I'm gonna finish it off anyway, the ministers on H-COM's pages and the board said that HP holds about 66 if I'm not wrong about the market, not 70 and something you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26285	Replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26286	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, it's very short. A colleague, Novak, told about the business of Croatian Post Office d.d. We can say that by 2013, the post office was facing a major challenge and I was part of that story for three years. The liberalisation of the market for Croatia's mail is the biggest burden as Croatia's post office enters this liberalised market with 11.5 thousand employees. It is a smaller town in Croatia. It is necessary to secure 11.5 thousand salaries and what is a problem that Croatia's mail has never been able to carry out that is the closure of non-erable postal offices because it happens that in smaller municipalities, cities expect that each place was a tradition and habit has its own post office, not referring to a market that was increasingly ruthless. So if you have in one office two employees it's about 250 thousand to maybe a little more thousands of kuna a year, the payoff itself. This post office makes twice as much money on an annual basis as it pays for the salary. So this burden of liberalising the market that we must accept is actually the greatest burden for Croatia's mail. Both Croatian postal and this bill did not now have a percentage share in universal services, but it was in various ways and these new operators entered the Croatian Post Office market. So that's what we're going to say in the debate should put a burden on the very burden that Croatia has taken over through the separation of Croatian telecoms and Croatian mail on two companies. There's a Telekom today with three thousand or less employees, and the post office has remained with 11.5 thousand people. This is the biggest reason for the loss of Croatian mail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26287	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26288	Thanks a nice fellow for reminding me, but probably because as many as 13 hours we've been here so fatigue material obviously works its way, in the end I forgot to mention the workers even though I'm by walk-in we should have started with that. Unfortunately, I am afraid that the Croatian model of restructuring of public enterprises will eventually take place. It usually means firing and masseuse. And apart from today's 350 grand and some other unemployed, it's going to be another blow. That same thing is being prepared with other companies, both HZ and HEP, and I don't know what not. What kind of income will they end up paying and earning? For pensions and I don't know the unemployment benefits? Obviously, we don't need it together. And as for this devastation of the Post, the fact is that we've been neat all this time and we've been keeping it quiet and that even illegal and unfair competition has been happening and there's been no adequate reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26289	HNS club and counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26290	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues who work hard at this late hour. On behalf of the HNS Club, I can start by saying that we will support this bill, but of course let me comment on some of the basic things that are related to this law. This law arises as a consequence of the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia as part of EU accession negotiations to bring its acquis into line with directives, so-called "the EU". the postal directives, in particular with the third EU postal directive, which has prescribed the liberalisation of the EU postal services market and, of course, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to implement the same measures and to actually form the same standards of business in the area of postal services. What is worth mentioning is that unlike many other areas in the Republic of Croatia, there is also a strategy for the development of the postal market, which is not a very common case with us and this law creates assumptions to ensure what is called a universal postal service in Europe to ensure this in the full area of the Republic of Croatia. The universal postal service is what Mr. Minister said in the opening statement to provide postal services at a certain level according to certain standards in the territory of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia while, as an alternative to the universal postal service, it is also prescribed by this law, i.e. to enable the provision of so-called ‘Universal postal service’. Deputy postal services. This law abolished the monopoly so far. The role of the regulatory body and what we call inspection supervision is equally prescribed. Thus far, inspection of the provision of postal services has been carried out by the resolution ministry in accordance with the provisions of this law. This obligation is made by the Regulatory Agency, or body, in Croatia, in the case of HACOM. There is also a way of financing universal postal services based on the fact that it in large part creates certain losses and differences between expenditure and income and for these reasons forms so-called. the compensation fund to be charged by paying contributions to both the universal postal service provider and other companies providing the replacement postal service. It is provided that, if the funds for the payment of that compensation are not sufficient from the fund itself, certain resources in the state budget are provided for in order to meet the obligations arising from this part of the law. What's a little bit strange is what we have to note is that during the negotiations, Croatia actually paid off a two-year delay in its application and joined that group of 11 EU countries that also provided themselves with the possibility of implementing these standards in postal transport operations since 31 December 2012. The question arises why we have only a few weeks behind us now are the years in which this could be regulated. So that's something that's kind of weird, so then we're in a situation where we make one very important law by emergency procedure, but that's what it is. This government must respect international commitments and if we have not done so so far, we must do so now. What is also important to say is that this application takes care of the fate of the Croatian Post Office as a traditional company, which has its position in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the institutions of the Croatian society and we from the HNS are extremely glad that we can pass a law that gives us a greater chance of 11 thousand workers retaining their jobs. However, we will be extremely pleased if the practical application of this law shows that we have been kept in the gauges and the desire to enable the survival of the Croatian post office and to enable the survival of jobs in the Croatian Post Office, but it would not be good and we would certainly not be satisfied if we were to move to another zone, which is if the practical application of this law gives a good position to the Croatian post office but eliminates any chance of survival to other companies that deal with the provision of replacement services. In this case, I would like to stress that according to some of our worldscapitals and beliefs, each job is equally valuable and that in our eyes there is equal concern and responsibility for the job of employees I do not know City Express or these others who are engaged in the delivery of packages as much as we value that job as we do in state companies. For these reasons, the CNS has prepared one amendment to Article 16i paragraph 2 in order to define as accurately as possible what mass shipments are, or what is not, a universal postal service, because the universal postal service is also according to the legal property of the EU but is now free from VAT payments under the provisions of this law and all other types of postal services have VAT. We believe that the application of this law must remain within the limits of fair and correct relations between all actors when it comes to providing those postal services that do not fall within the universal. What do you say? It is good to accept in some way the fact that Croatian mail has for years been providing services in certain parts of Croatian territory due to poorer population, a smaller volume of work and some fixed logistics costs for providing these services create losses for themselves, in fact, as a state-owned company, providing some minimum standard for providing these services to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. and it is the right for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to receive this postal service in both the islands and the remote parts of which there are no major urban centres, in which the poor population is given this postal service, to receive it at the same price as the citizens in large areas where business in this part can even be profitable. However, I have to get out of the picture a little bit, and I'm going to take advantage of Mr. Secretary's opportunity to maybe abuse what he's here tonight. In local environments we are not completely satisfied with the way Croatian mail has run politics and provide service in recent years. In fact, it has been frequent to shut down postal offices that have often been leased for minimum amounts by local self-government units, they are important for the quality of life of citizens in these areas of local self-government units, and Croatian mail is still shutting them down. The argument, of course, is perfectly logical, to arrange the gas to reduce costs to avoid losing, but for example, I will look back at the town of Sibenik, which, through a written question, I have turned my attention to Mr. Minister, and this is a very strange case in which Croatian mail is burdened with huge directorial costs, rather than using its facilities instead of using its properties and building its logistics centre and debt facilities using a private facility by paying a monthly rent of more than 100 thousand kuna. It is very easy to count that an object of 1300 square meters of useful land can be built on land owned by Croatian mail and that annuities for paying credit for the construction of such a building would be less than 100 thousand kuna. As a representative in the Croatian Parliament, here is what I publicly say, I am interested in who is responsible for the listing of this contract and whether it has the right reason for such a thing. The case is as strange as the city of Sibenik has asked for very similar needs from the then central state property management office to assign us one object in abandoned unspectived military facilities, so we invested some money and we received a representative object that could, for example, serve Croatian mail for that purpose. It's interesting how nobody thought of it. Such facilities in Sibenik still have a whole range of opportunities to prevent the annual cost of paying rent in the city of Sibenik more than one million kuna per year. And this opportunity I ask the Minister once again to examine this case in detail because if we prescribe this law to provide funds in the state budget to help the survival of the state-owned company to preserve jobs, if we provide money from the funds collected by paying VAT and all other taxes paid by citizens and entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, then it would be correct to ensure that in Croatia Croatian postal companies are maximumly responsible, to act in the manner of a good lord. Croatia is also paying so much rent that it wants to be a tourist country, such as that universal postal service and no replacement postal service provides during the heart of the summer season in the heart of the summer season in the period from Saturday to Monday at 7 a.m. in the city of Sibenik in no post office, I stress no post office tourists can get services from the area of postal services. Mr. Minister, both as Parliament's representative and as the mayor of the city of Sibenik, I find that unacceptable. I ask you, with the authority of the Secretary-General, to make sure that no such thing happens to us next season. It's a practice that's already taking several seasons and it's inadmissible for us. However, the law very precisely defines everything, defines the types of postal services, the conditions under which they are provided, the way the universal postal service is financed or co-financed, defines the relations between companies, the way HACOM assigns to the provider or the universal postal service provider the licence is called so for, states that Croatian mail will do so for the next 15 years, that there is a obligation every 5 years of that regulatory body to review whether there are other companies that satisfy that requirement. In that case, it is also prescribed that a public tender be carried out which would possibly, if one or more companies provided such a service. He was made in all his segments very correct. I say with some restraint or caution that we do not cross the line of good intentions towards both users of services and Croatian mails that are our priority interest, that we do not cross that line acceptable to other postal service providers because they also have employees who also need to keep and keep their jobs. We will support this law as a constituency club, and we expect the ministry to be manifest about our amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26291	Two replicas. Dear Representative Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26292	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Baranovic touched on what is clearly said and said about Croatia's mail, about respecting the obligations of rents, management, and I wanted to replicate and to point out that we witnessed a year ago an aggressive campaign from the Croatian Post Office which assured the public that a deep and efficient restructuring was carried out in Croatia, that the state-owned company with over a thousand employees was just so idyllic. So this debate, which was the name of the HNS club, Mr Baranovic, touched that Croatian mail so that I can say that 4 years ago, Croatia's mail was actually successful in business, but suddenly in the last 4 years it had to cover this loss for the issue of 400 million kuna bonds, which we have to return with 7.5% interest, and that is only an indication that it was in addition to these notes on the rents of the Sibenik example, and there are certainly more. I must say that I welcome the ministry's absolute efforts to resuscitate and that we can say this very fast and efficient way of restructure and adapt Croatia's mail to competition and in the right sense of the word to protect national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26293	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26294	Here I find it difficult to comment on the specific figures my colleague has, he obviously made a detailed effort to get into some things, details of the business of Croatian post office, but in general there are two truths. One is that one who provides services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia in some parts records real losses and that we need to find a way to compensate. Therefore, these provisions are incorporated into the law absolutely correct as far as this is concerned. However, on this particular Sibenik case, it is clear to all of us that we are dealing with this business that it has not always been a master of the good master's manners and that there is a clear need, especially since the future money of citizens and taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia will be invested in the business of the Croatian Post Office to be responsibly managed and that in this area of these cases, I would say it in an obscenuous manner, such cases of behaviour should not be. It's just like that. And as for the details of the bonding process, Croatian mail is not the only company that has multiple resolutions, which has been charged with billions of kunas or hundreds of millions of kunas. This is the pain of the state sector, which is why in all those... where there is the possibility of privatization of privatisation in a particular activity a good solution. However, our real state of play and the objective needs of citizens to provide this type of service are still paving us, as well as social sensitivity towards workers of the Croatian Post Office who are, in the most part, not guilty of failure to manage, that we are still going in this direction and that we are building on these principles the future of postal traffic, at least for a certain period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26295	A new replica, representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26296	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague of Baranovic's, I have to replicate in the part where he mentioned the amendment. I can see that he came to the bench and he's looking back at what I was talking about yesterday on the Assembly Committee because I think that's a very important article in Article 16(2) that talks about universal services. I think he's just, that he's going to benefit from the Croatian post office to benefit public enterprises, all the senders of mass e-mails and not discriminate against anyone. If this is accepted in this way, then this bill loses its basic sense of making available to the national operator as many opportunities as possible and more revenue. And speaking of VAT, the fact is that universal postal services are free of VAT in all European Union countries. And not only the universal ones, in many they are freed of everything, all services and therefore these national operators are more competitive than their competition and therefore survive and therefore they are still in a better position today than they are in Croatia's mail. And I hope that the government, as well as the ministry, will have an understanding and will not accept this kind of amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26297	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, I don't think we should go to any extremes. That's why we made this amendment because the universal postal service is not a distribution of mass shipments. And if we turn out to be able to enter that part of the competition between other service providers and Croatian mail providers then we have given an absolute and total advantage and then about abolishing the monopoly in fact there is no speech. Then we gave a terrible advantage to the Croatian post office and very clearly, here we must be honest we have ordered, colleague Boric I did not interrupt you, we have told employees of other companies that they have no chance of existence. You may, of course, have the right to your own opinion, but I personally as a man do not make any difference between the needs of the workers of the Croatian Post Office and the needs of the DHL workers to provide bread and breakfast for their family members in the morning. I think that in this country and according to the Constitution, everyone has the right to work and that we must be correct towards people. It's the only purpose of this amendment, and the Ministry is to show itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26299	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26300	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. There is yet another draft law before us, which is a harmonisation with the European acquis. Namely, the proposal for a postal service law corresponds practically in accordance with Directive 2008/6 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 February 2008 amending and supplementing Directive 97/67 EC as regards the full development of the internal market for postal services in the Community. Otherwise, it is generally accepted as the Third Post Directive. The purpose is clear when it comes to Croatia and the full liberalisation of the postal services market from 1 January 2013. In the Croatian market, changes began in 1998, or '99. The year, '98. Legal '98. and practical separation of Croatian mail and telecommunications into Croatian postal and Croatian telecommunications. Both companies then had a monopoly position. Croatian telecoms are later and privatised. The colleagues before me spoke of it more or less successfully, and the Croatian Post Office has remained a state-owned company until now. This Croatian post office today is unfortunately asking for an answer to the question that in five years it lost a third of the market and 700 million kuna thanks to practically the declines of other operators who, despite the law, used the area of reserved services. This would not have hurt them so much if competition had built its business, for example, hard-to-reach mountain villages, Slavonian provinces, or islands. However, Croatia's post office has lost market in the cities of Zagreb, especially in Zagreb, and has a legal obligation for 15 years after liberalisation to be available to all Croatian citizens from Babina Kuk to Babina Greda. The public operator cannot, unfortunately, choose users, but cannot be even cost-operative as private. But that's not an excuse clear. The latest knowledge of the developments in the postal services market in Croatia shows that these solutions were not available today. Perhaps these solutions are passed by this law and the newly established compensation fund. The draft Law on postal services addresses the following fundamental issues. The abolition also excludes monopoly rights to the provision of reserved universal postal services, the way one universal service provider is determined throughout the Republic of Croatia, the distribution of postal services to universal services, replacement postal services and other postal services, and the way in which the universal service is financed in the Republic of Croatia. The net cost of the universal service obligation which constitutes an unfair financial burden for the universal service provider primarily from the compensation fund. The possibility of settlement of the remaining amount... the financial burden arising from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the event that the contribution of the replacement postal service provider and the amount of the universal service provider's contribution is not sufficient to settle the overall obligation to finance an unfair financial burden. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Enabling access to the universal service network to other postal service providers to consolders and service users, as well as giving the right and obligation to provide universal service to Croatia in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia for a period of 15 years, subject to mandatory review of the terms of universal service every 5 years. Also, the draft Law on Postage Services also contains provisions aimed at harmonising with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, "National Journal" No 90/2011. In order to ensure a harmonised continuation of work within the Joint Regulatory Authority for the Postal Services of Electronic Communications of HACOM. In particular, these provisions relate to the following: the transfer of the power of inspection of the provision of postal services from the central authority of the state administration in the jurisdiction of the HACOM regulatory authority and the settlement of the dispute settlement procedure carried out by HACOM between the service user and the postal service provider in a simpler and clearer manner for both parties in the dispute. There is more news in the law, but I think it is one of the most important establishment of a compensation fund that should in principle solve the problem I mentioned about the Croatian Post Office. This newly established fund should be financed in such a way as to calculate the overall obligation to finance unfair burdens and calculate the amount of contributions from each postal service provider referred to in Article 51(2) of the Law in proportion to the share of their revenues achieved by the provision of universal service and revenue from the provision of replacement postal services so that those contributions settle the overall obligation to finance an unfair financial burden. And here we come to that unknown, and that's the part about the state budget that should settle the rest of the money if the amount collected in the compensation fund is not enough in this way. But I think we're still going to have to leave this time because we can hardly have a calculation right now, mainly because the Croatian market has been pretty messy so far. Therefore, this contribution cannot be more than 5% of the income of the replacement postal service providers achieved from the provision of replacement postal services in the previous calendar year. And in conclusion, what I can say is that the SDP club will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26301	Thank you very much. Replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I reacted to my colleague Vidovic because you said this was the entry into force of this law would finally be liberalisation in this part. The final liberalisation came long before it was illegal, but we all know it and we all keep our mouths shut. And worst of all, those bodies that needed to react didn't react. And that's what I find controversial. You say now we have Hacom to control. We had this same body before HACOM's maltene just what was called the Council for... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the result? Any results on that? You mentioned HT separation and HP you cited as an example, after which Croatian mails lose 30% of the market. That's what you mentioned. The fact is, normally, they lose 30% of the market if they're allowed to tolerate partners, not partners, but competition to do what it's not allowed to do in an illegal way. And even when you mentioned the division of HT and HP, so let's be honest, HT took everything that's worth and what's bad is left with HP. Such a division happens and in other public enterprises, specifically for HH I know what's going on. It is also so that operators have got everything that is not valid and not good and it represents cost, and HZ Infrastructure that remains under the auspices of the state has got all the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26303	Replication response, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26304	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague I mentioned in my presentation if I'm not mistaken that the Croatian post office had a problem because of it, and still has it, because it is practically forced to perform services in the field of Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonska province, island of whatever, and on the other hand to lose market in cities. It is clear that in cities it is much easier to do business than it is, much lower costs, higher population concentration, etc. So on the other hand, I'm holding that every arrangement brings plus, can't possibly be a negative. Any correction of the law in that sense is plus. As far as the third postal directive is concerned, it is simply a matter of thinking about which Mr Kalmeta could say even better than I, which is simply agreed with the EU, I suppose, and which we are obliged to implement at the end of the day because we are obliged to stick to what we have as a serious state as we agree with our partners. And the third thing you mentioned to me was... Yeah, so I didn't mention she lost 30% of the market then, but I simply cited it as the fact that it was '98. Legal, and '99. There was practically separation of Croatian mail and telecommunications on the ground. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I have to tell you that I don't know the postal market so well, but I could tell you exactly what moment Croatia lost its 30% mail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26305	In the name of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Bozidar Kalmeta will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So let me also say on behalf of the HDZ Club our position on this proposal of the Law on Post Office Services. This law belongs to those laws that we can call what people call wooden iron. So, on the one hand, one state operator's monopoly needs to be put out, and all of this together in relation to the other is a little bit bit of hair, so I think this bill that's been made and that's right here in front of us that's managed well to balance it out. I think it has been prepared in one quality way and that this bill has fulfilled its basic function, which is to further adapt Croatia's legislation to EU legislation, i.e. more concrete alignment with the postal directive. In this context, I think it is good to adopt a new Law on postal services that will come into effect at the end, that is, early next year, where we will have full liberalisation of the postal market so that all participants in these new conditions know their rights and their obligations which have not been the case, but also with the user of their services creates one sense of security and order. The business of all the participants in the conditions of the liberalised market will be significantly different, and the new law should bring in a sense that this will not lead to the lack of power or the collapse of the system, and therefore we say, I said in the beginning, I believe that a good balance has been made between legal regulation and the part that will depend on the future situation on the market. Two main reasons for this whole process and liberalisation in our country, and certainly in the EU, which is mostly on the one hand liberalisation, the aim of liberalisation is to reduce prices towards the end-user and increase quality. Therefore, this should be the objective of this law or liberalisation and not less important on the other hand should force the public operator to continue restructuring, to continue strengthening for tomorrow's competition, therefore because there is no more monopoly and when it would happen, and I think that it should happen then the objective of this law is met, although there will be a lot of problems in the realisation of all this together because the practice in the EU shows that this liberalisation did not actually result in the effects that it wanted, so even in some countries, there have been a reduction of quality and some various other problems so that the European Postal Union is largely not satisfied with one process, and unfortunately few laws are currently in Europe that work in a way to compensate for the work of the public or appointed operator. There are good examples, but I say in general, both in the EU itself and in the Post Office, they are not satisfied, but there is no other solution for now. I said before that the law itself is good and now the details and I don't mean to discuss all these laws here. What I want to do may be a little bit troublesome is that we know that we have a full opening of the postal market, to the provision of reserved universal services, we no longer have those monopolys on written shipments up to 50 grams, before 100 grams, that we have defined one universal service provider for the entire Republic of Croatia, and that's good and only possible because it's already been debated here that I don't repeat, we need to bring the letter to Silba or we need to bring the letter somewhere in Dalmatia or somewhere in Slavonia and so on, so it's only possible and so it has to be, however, that this and such business clearly bear the losses because the revenues are much less than it earns. So what do we do now? So on the one hand, we have to ensure that all citizens in the Republic of Croatia can get a letter now, and on the other hand, the one doing this has a loss. It has been decided here that it will form this compensation fund from which it will then cover these losses of a public operator who, as it says here for the next 15 years, will every five years be able to see if there is anyone else who might be able to do it or who wants to do it, so if there is a competition that will call what is the same good. Well, I also don't think there's gonna be enough money from that compensation fund. If the post office were to be properly restructured, Croatia would continue to develop well further in that sense, perhaps it would like me to speak a little bit here and I won't say it by heart but to assume it won't be enough and the bill promoter himself has therefore also put that one fuser to say so, that if there isn't enough money that the state budget will then reach and that from the state budget these losses will cover, which is good because Croatian mail employs 10 thousand and 506 people don't know how much but other clear operators so that every job should be looked at with a lot of respect. There may be some concern and what I said at the beginning that the objective of liberalisation, one of the goals is that the operator is forced to do one restructuring, one economic behaviour, to look at every June and kuna if it doesn't have to be, but if the administrations, let's say, the public operator know that they have a state budget behind them that they can rely on it whenever they need it, then maybe it won't be so agile and active in this which should be one of the objectives of this law, which is that I'm not repeating for the third time a competitive, one competitive public operator who can deal with other competition equally. So this is the only thing that I think is questionable or perhaps not worked out enough, but practice will show what it is. Maybe you couldn't do it in another way to do it in three zones. One zone to make the cities big, then let the middle zone, and the one I don't know is that they're determined by county that have one average population. And the end zone these are those rural parts of Croatia then would be, for example, within these three zones anyone applying for a postal service in this case do not know the other donor or public operator etc. etc. So they report that they want to carry only one or the other, the third zone and when invoiceing it to their clients must show among other things where he was carrying his shipments when, for example, he was. HT that the night account he has a list of addresses and he determines who was wearing in which zone, and if he only carries in the first zone must pay a clear difference of the other two zones compensated or if he is carrying in two zones he must pay compensation of the third zone etc. But well, it's now a matter of working out that article and how it's going to work. So, not to be too long, I think this law has created a good balance in the conditions in which we have to do it. We must respect the directives, we must pass this law, it must come into force, we must liberalise the market because it is good and it is good for the end-user and it should be good for him, but this question always asks me about the functioning of that compensation fund and the state budget. All in all, the HDZ club will support this proposal of the Law on Postal Services with the Final Bill and I just wanted but there are no colleagues Baranovic so I won't tell him Croatia's mail was also doing business in 2009, 2010, positively. I'd like her to do business positively this year, but we'll wait until the end of the year and we'll see. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26307	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected representative Josip Salapic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's as many of us as we've got left, we'll only be talking to chairs if we're not this late. It is important that this law is primarily important for Croatia's mail, and for all workers of the Croatian Post Office, 11.5 thousand workers should still be concerned about both us MPs and the Croatian Government, the ministry and that part of our commitment to the EU. Fulfillment 3. The postal directive, the adoption of this final proposal of the law, is our European obligation, the harmonisation of market liberalisation, this is what takes effect on 1 January 2013. Now let me not repeat the history of the adoption of the Law on Postage Services and their adaptation to the first and second postal directive. So this is the third final one that will fully liberalise the postal market and we can tell all postal operators registered in the Republic of Croatia in an equal position. What is a little bit of concern, and we can say the sad Croatian Post Office is a state-owned company, funded from our own business and heard from Mr. Kalmeta in 2009, 2011, a positive result in the business and after the election was replaced by the Croatian Post Office Mr. Jukić then the president of the administration was removed for unexplained reasons although it was a promise that those public companies that had won would retain their administrations because they would look to the quality of persons and not which party won the elections. In the case of Croatian mail, that was not the case. I personally took part in the part of the restructuring of Croatian mail from 2008 to 2012 and the Croatian Post Office made all efforts since it had a great burden. Although the state-owned company did not participate as a strategic partner to Croatia, we sincerely hope that since 1 January, it will be completely different for Croatia as a state-owned company to find a strategic partner first of all in Croatia. We can see from the Croatian Post report that up to this full liberalisation of January 1st, so there are 20 days left for Croatia to lose around 700 million kuna because of the loss of around 30% of the market by illegal and unfair competition. This primarily concerns there is nothing to hide about the business of the City Express which in certain ways illegally and without the reaction of H-Com entered the reserved area of the Croatian Post Office. And what is also sad and what should be pointed out is that both the state ministries and some local administrations and local communities have done the opposite of so existing legal regulations and delivered the reserved area of Croatian mail via the City Express. Was it a cheaper service, if these bodies of the institution were guided by a market principle, we don't know, but we do know that the post office that is due to pay 11.5 thousand salaries has been lost a great deal of money a month. 700 million kuna is not a small amount of money. What is also a burden that will be found from January 1st is that the post office will for 15 years perform a universal service under certain conditions. And here I can certainly say that there will not be enough funds in the compensation fund to cover the costs that Croatia will have in the provision of these universal postal services under the prescribed legal conditions. There is nothing to lie about here we can only expect one additional burden from the Croatian post office. Unfortunately, the dismissal of Croatian post office workers is probably another social case. Croatia's post office of 4000 Croatian mailers here is a colleague of Baranovic's who is not here said they should all be given equal working conditions. I am a witness with many workers of the City Express, DHL and other operators just wanted to move to work in Croatian mail, because Croatia first and foremost provides its workers and collective contracts and adequate working conditions and for Croatian terms with salaries that could be paid, which is about 4 thousand to 4.5 thousand kuna salaries, for example to our postmen. Yet these people who worked... had salaries of 2.5 thousand kuna and worked under a bit of unusual conditions. So we here must be prepared to fully legalise the market and we must support this law as such. But we also expect from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that in the time that is yet different from ours, the post office and the interests of the Croatian Post Office because of this bill that we have to adopt in an inexplicable position because of our EU directives, while looking at other countries in Slovenia, Sweden, Belgium, we see that their one operator has kept more than 90% of these universal postal services in its jurisdiction. It will happen here with the Croatian Post Office something quite different and here not to enter that there will be any difficulties in the right to work we call primarily on you ministers and the Government to look a little further at this proposal of the law and not to destroy something that is primarily the property of the Republic of Croatia. We are ready to meet the requirements of the European Union, but we cannot be prepared under the password to allow everyone equal labour rights to be destroyed by a state-owned company that is primarily valuable to the Republic of Croatia. This HNS amendment also does not contribute to Croatia's mail because the amendment to..., it is an amendment that goes to departing from the terms of the universal service of the Croatian postal market and that is something that neither the HDSSB club will support, I hope that neither the other clubs will, because it is something that really means burying Croatian mail and under the password of opening new jobs, opening new operators we are destroying what is primarily the treasure and ownership of our people and all those workers who are terrified and their families who suffer for their wages in the time ahead and that is something that we must protect. We in this part, so we can't and we can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26309	Thank you. We are moving on to an individual debate, so I urge the esteemed representative, Josip Boric, to present his.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26310	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So I'll do it briefly, more or less about Croatia's post office all said. The fact is that it is one important company for Croatia, that we have heard from 11000 people, and more importantly, even though it is owned by the state is exclusively funded by its own business and operates market. I will state here the problem we have on the Croatian letter market, and it concerns the reserved area of letters up to 50 grams because it is indeed a specific example that we cannot find in the entire European Union and we hear here that formal liberalisation is going on with 1.1, and the fact is that we have an informal one for a long time. That's a fact, and that's what the data shows. Because this post should have a 100% share in the area of written shipments of up to 50 grams exclusively with its right and obligation for the reserved area to liberalise the market. These are the most interesting shipments, and that's where the biggest ones spin, let's say the money. However, Croatian Post Office, we heard from the minister today, there are only 72% in the area, and we have not yet started liberalising that part. It's that specificikum. Looking at other countries in the European Union will make it even clearer for us. There are no service providers in the European Union who have left more than 13% of that share in their area. It doesn't exist. And we're already at 30% before formal liberalisation. The example of Sweden in which liberalisation took place in '93. the year, and the postal operator there still holds 89% of the reserved area. In Slovenia, the market was liberalised in 2011, and this post today holds 99.6% of the reserved area. In Austria, it's 98%. We as a country entering the next year 1.7.2013 into the European Union formal liberalisation as the only country entering the European Union begin before the date of entry into the European Union. Poland, for example, has only been liberalising the postal market since 1.1.2013 and has already been in the European Union for almost 7 years. It is precisely because of what we call informal liberalisation or that strange part of business that took place on the market of reserved senders, the fact is that in recent years there has been a loss at the expense of the Croatian Post Offices measured clearly in hundreds of millions of kunas. Because Croatian mail is often used here as an example when it comes to rural areas, islands, how they only do it, how others don't do it, but we see one amendment coming on the bench today, which says that they should all be in some way equal to that of some doing only what is in their interest, and Croatia should cover everything else, and it covers really every inhabited island, every area because it is its obligation. The Croatian post office has 942 post offices, daily empty over 5000 coffins, and a five-day delivery has been introduced throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, covering over 1700 rural districts that competition will never be able to cover. That is why we say that what has been happening so far has been in some way unfair to that public enterprise, which, however, we have heard, for the past three years has been working with profits, within perhaps the most difficult market conditions of all public companies. And that is why it is important for this Article 16 and this paragraph 2, which is why it is important that the majority in this House do not accept the amendment of the HNS Club that requires that it be deleted in paragraph 2 "deviating from the terms of the universal service". What would that mean if such an article were deleted? If he were to delete all senders of mass shipments, consultants, they would not be able to enter into a contract for a universal postal service. Any written agreement with automation would constitute a replacement postal service to which VAT is charged. For state budget users, which are all ministries, these are agencies, for public companies, for local self-government, for companies owned by local self-government, etc. The service would be 25% more expensive and that's what's important. Because this article does not discriminate on anyone, if anyone thinks they can work in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, let them do so, let it be cheaper if they can from the Croatian mail, but let the law be respected as well written, well-supplyed. Because I do not know what the interest of the CNS is to push such an amendment when it means less money and unrealisation in the state budget or the spending of the state budget because it is known that services, universal postal services, are free of VAT in all EU and Croatian countries as well. And in some of these countries, not only have they been released, but some other postal services have been released and all this is in line with European legislation. And that is why I repeat once again in order for Croatia to do better business, more rationally, to spend the resources of the State budget. It would be good if the ministry refuses to amend the HNS club because it is the best way to introduce even more order into the area covered by postal services, and those who think it may not be good for them to try because experience with these operators is not always the best. It may not make sense that in this late hour we're talking about them, but I think anyone who's been doing business with any of these other operators must have some negative experience. With Croatian mail, I have to say hard or rare or never. In all weather conditions in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why this article 16 is important and must not be touched by such a bill because it is a very, very good minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26311	Thank you. Replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26312	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague Boric. HNS has no interest in this story. What is the position of the CNS is that everyone in this country has constitutional right, the right to work is aware of the fact that, apart from the Croatian Post Office, there are also some other companies that provide services whose employees are also looking forward to existence on the basis of work and employment. Our amendment is intended only to potentially prevent the possible misapplication of this positive law, which, to our great satisfaction, creates assumptions for quality service to Croatian citizens, as well as for the survival of 11,000 jobs in the Croatian Post Office. But I stress, we believe that this correction should be made in order to avoid any misreading of the provisions of this law and so that it does not happen that any possibility of further business and other employees and other companies in this field of service is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26313	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26314	I, from your presentation on behalf of the club on the basis of this amendment, have the feeling and the impression that you want to harm the Croatian Post Office regardless of what you and how you explain it, which is not an interest, should not be of interest to the government that owns it, nor should you be interested in Croatian citizens. Because I believe that of all the operators in the Republic of Croatia are most satisfied with the Croatian Post Office. We and I don't think this law is very good, which in all parts doesn't discriminate against anyone. He does not discriminate, but some are not able to offer, regardless of how long they have been in an area where they may not have been able to offer equal services and this must not be a lack of Croatian mail. They're doing their job right. We don't need to interpret it in such a way that we're against jobs in some other operators. We are not, let them do, let them seek capital, let them invest and let them determine the areas where they will do it but not to the harm of Croatian post office. It is the only intensity of this amendment to do damage to Croatia's mail, and it is not an interest for 11,000 people who should be told every month to get paid. And if this is accepted and I hope it doesn't, there's no understanding in all the clubs, then there's no problem. The Croatian post office has a chance to recover a large part of the lost area it has in some way lost in the past tense. That's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26315	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Boris Blazekovic, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26316	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues all who have the strength still here to listen to what I think is now a good part of the postal workers listening to and watching with television. I'd like to make a few thoughts about the bill on postal services. In fact, the law itself isn't some revolutionary act, it can't be. It is only a harmonisation, because this is actually about the new liberalisation of the market in accordance with EU directives, but of course it must be done in a way that corresponds to this Republic, this country of Croatia because it is a structural company which, unfortunately, is already already a postal law, one such system and is not until the end of the influence of supervisory authorities or respected, which is in the area of reserved services. Apparently, this law provides protection to the national operator of Croatia by giving it the status of national universal service provider for the next 15 years with the obligation to review the terms and conditions of universal service with HAK every five years and that is the formal extension of the contract. This law of course recognises universal services which are now not accounted for and does not pay VAT, which should remain, replacement services which are specifically contracted with large users which send large quantities of mass shipments from the universal area which deviate from the conditions for universal services and other postal services. The law is inevitability. This is the case in Europe, but our opportunities are not even a little European because there has been no breach so far of the current old Law on Postage Services, whose inapplicable Croatian mail and brought largely into an inappropriate position because the competent inspections, so HACOM did not react when other service providers flew into the space of reserved but also universal postal services to Croatia, so they sent them to a more unfavourable position and made losses. HAKOM only determined this by his decision at the end of 2011. The business of all participants will be significantly different under the conditions of the liberalised market, and the new law should adopt and introduce a feeling that this will not result in the lack of authority and decomposition of the system. And we think that a pretty good balance has been reached between legal regulation and the part that will depend on the future state of the market. It is just about the legislative regulation which primarily refers to universal service as so far represents a service of certain quality, available at an affordable price for all postal service users in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia whose right and obligation to do so for the next 15 years has been granted by the law to Croatia. We feel it is necessary to stress that we believe that the state should and should give stronger support to Croatia's mail in implementing the obligation imposed on it. The law itself states that the provision of a universal service of interest to the Republic of Croatia is what I think and commits the state itself in some way to become a strategic partner of Croatian mail, i.e. its instrument in fulfilling and obligations which, according to our knowledge so far, has not been the case. I believe that it is extremely unfair to ask Croatian mail only to comply with the law of prescribed delivery deadlines, to ensure daily delivery or collection of shipments and in the outermost areas, to maintain a network of postal offices, and shipments by e.g. State institutions, courts, local communities and several others do not deliver through Croatian mail, but through their own suppliers or through some other service providers. It is true that the market opens, offers and demand, and the most price will do its part. But no matter what, I think the state should take better care of what you prescribed. Of course, in this part and Croatia, the post office must do a lot of things because at one point Croatia's post office raised the price of the reserved service to 3.50 kn and dropped it to 3.10 kn and abolished the rebates. It was no correct move by the Croatian Post Office. And then few states, few regulators, so agencies, few inspections and few Croatian mails contributed to what happened later. The honest-working postal workers have 10690 of them, as far as I'm concerned, expect protection of business and jobs as well as a fair game of competition. However, with the non-compliance with the existing Law on Postal Services, HP is reduced to 66% of the market, and most of the European national operators have already heard from 90 to 100% of the national market and are doing postal services successfully. This information is about market relations and business policy of a public operator. In five years under the conditions of full liberalisation when the market potential of all postal service providers is reviewed, the market power of all postal service providers is expected to be 50% if the market share of HP continues this way, not 66% as far as HACOM data show. Since Croatia is the public operator who covers most of the postal services market, universal postal services are still in areas where it is not worth it, I feel it is necessary to say that we should not be in the interest of setting up the costs exactly and only to HP. If HP is a company of interest to the Republic of Croatia, it is not possible for such a trend to be almost unprotected, not to help HP. It may unfortunately be someone’s answer that within 5 years, it is found that due to poor and accumulated losses, the HP operator covers 50% or less of the postal services markets. This is not the result of the poor work of workers or the low potential of HP but is the result of a failure to respect the existing Law on Postage Services for many years at the expense of HP and in favour of service providers such as City Express in the first place. After all, this has been happening for many years, and people have pointed to such failures. Maybe they're doing the same thing to you in City Express right now. The HP administration then, of course, abolished discounts for large customers and increased the price of reserved services as I have already said. Maybe they have that relationship with City Express today. The formal-legal liberalisation of the postal market in the Republic of Croatia first and foremost sets out a request for the exact determination and demonstration of the amount of damage it suffered for the unlawful treatment of couriers' companies and, in the process before the relevant court, to achieve fair compensation. The public mentions the loss of about 700 million kuna in the last 5 years. Of course, there is still a debt of 53m euros in the Zagreb Stock Exchange by placing securities. However, I think it would be important, in addition to Article 16(2), to point out Article 46(3), so to clarify. Where, on the basis of the contract referred to in Article 16(2), the universal service provider refers to the consignments to the replacement postal consignments, specific prices shall apply to the principle of non-discrimination on prices and related conditions. That's where transparency should be avoided. Why? Because Croatia's mail as a national operator will have to publish prices and then the City Express will show up and give 20 lipa lower, and he doesn't have to publish the price. Therefore, it is not correct for the consultants and other senders to enter the Croatian Post Office in this way. The article itself clearly and unambiguously states that the services contained in those contracts are not considered a universal service from which it can be concluded that they are services located on the market. If it comes to market services, I do not see the need to impose transparency obligations that no other participant has on the postal market but is the sole provider of the universal service or of the Croatian Post Office. It would be very good for the ministers to be inserted if they can in any way be protected by the Croatian Post Office. And since I still have a little time, I'm going to try to bring this to an end, and I have another three hours to talk about this. I know this is hard for you to listen to, but people aren't. The postal system is not ready to prepare for new market conditions and will welcome them without technological and organisational changes. Croatian post office cannot be engaged in the sale of gold, the sale of silver, printing or printing from... and the sale of insurance shelves. The Croatian Post Office has always been a semi-financial institution, provided financial services but of course the system with the Croatian Post Bank was not concrete because in the Croatian Post Offices prices were paid 4 times more than in the Croatian Post Offices themselves. Therefore, the empowerment of the public operator of Croatia becomes what is important for the state of Croatia as well as the compensation fund in which up to 20 million kuna will be merged according to current postal service providers' revenue calculations, which is very little and will be burdened with a state budget item within which a far higher price for loss coverage in this purpose will have to be foreseen. Here's what I'm not going to do. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26317	You'll get a little more time because two replicas have been raised on your display. First Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26318	Thank you very much. So now I won't lie to myself, I can lie to everyone else, but the fact is that the first purpose is to give you more space and time, but at the same time I'm interested in your statement when you said you should install another part of the minister's law immediately responded no. I think it's indisputable with the deputy minister who was on the board, who said it was true, there are still people who were there, where it was practically presented as protecting national interest and a national operator. Now I don't understand why within the ministry itself such a discrepancy and my colleague Rilje I think you're still part of the ruling coalition, perhaps you're better informed about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26319	Second replica, Nancy Tyrelli. He's giving up. The final word of the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the esteemed Sinisa Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26320	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable MPs and MPs. Therefore, by respecting the third postal directive and by respecting the third postal directive, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure in order to say the consultations with the European Commission, and I personally believe that we have proposed a quality law that respects the fact that Croatia has 942 postal offices, that it serves 5 thousand mailboxes daily, that I will say almost daily it has a delivery to every island, hill, hill, mountain with prescribed quality, with the inability to choose users as well as to actually have some choice of business policy. And we have just tried through this law to the maximum, and I stress as much as possible with consultations with the European Commission to protect Croatia's mail and, on the other hand, to enable liberalisation. The Croatian Post Office will normally have this presentation at 10 o'clock on Tuesday, so let's call it the Plan's presentation not to say restructuring but to the next five-year development plan because it is well known that it is actually losing its core market and that it must find as much mail as it can compare to in Europe, it must find a certain portion of the replacement revenues but more on Friday. The esteemed representative, Mr Kalmeta, mentioned one proposal to divide Croatia into three areas. It was also considered but again to say so in consultations with the EC it is impossible because in one area there can be only one universal service provider, so it would be likely that everyone wants to go to the area at that time of the City of Zagreb but it was thought about it. And in conclusion, that I used what it's called if we're looking at a purely economic one false economic term actually accounting for what Mr. Shucker noticed well, so I applied dobule entry book keeping or double accounting instead of actually acouting separations or accounting separation obligations and that's true, but that might be a little nicer word you know by those nice words is actually the essence of life. What? No, no accounting is the correct translation of the word, just in nice words is the essence of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26321	I thank the minister. The debate on the text of the law is closed. We'll vote when the conditions are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26322	Final proposal of the Law on postal services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 229. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was filed by the HNS Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the deputy minister's representative, the respected Zdenko Antesic. We have one amendment, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government does not accept the amendment with the following explanation. By way of derogation from Article 16(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The final draft law to which the amendment was submitted shall be governed by the provision of replacement postal services by the universal service provider. It is precisely a derogation from the terms of the universal service that distinguishes the universal service from the replacement postal service when it is provided by the universal service provider. This provision, as well as its reasoning, is fully in line with 3. The EU Postal Directive 2008/6/EC, and in the said provision, including the words proposed to be deleted by the amendment, gave explicit consent to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26324	I'd like a representative of the motion of the HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The intention of the CNS contained in this amendment was to clearly specify the difference between universal and replacement postal services that in that part of the non-universal postal service market there would be no double interpretation and conflict between postal service providers. However, as the HNS supports the intention of the legislator to regulate the functioning of the postal services market, as well as to create appropriate conditions for the operation of the universal postal service provider, which is the Croatian Post Office, we will respect this reasoning by the legislator of the law and withdraw the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26326	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 127 votes and 1 abstentions, have been passed by the Law on postal services in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26327	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final draft law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 230 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, Deputy Minister of Economy Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26328	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for letting me begin by thanking you for the discussions that have been held on the working bodies or committees, as well as for your attention in these late hours in the debate of this final draft of the law. We are talking about a novel, a proposal for a novel about the work of the state and the way and methodology of the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures which I will recall was founded in 2003 with the authority to control the procedures under the Public Procurement Act. In 2010, a new Law on the State Commission was adopted and I must also remind myself that the competence of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures has been extended to the segments of the public-private partnership as well as to the part relating to concessions. Currently, the State Commission consists of five members, one of whom is president and makes decisions through the work of only one council. I purposely emphasise both the number of members and the number of councils for decision-making at the level of the state commission because, in this segment, for reasons and the extension of certain responsibilities, especially after entering the EU, but because of the increased scope of work, what is proposed on the one hand by this novel is the increase of the members of the state commission itself, and on the other hand, the increase of councils or panels in which the council will discuss what enables them to concentrate, specialize but also the rapid flow of the case through the state commission's own institution. Why? The data or statistics of the state commission itself indicate an increased number of cases but also an increased number of days in which the cases are being discussed or after which they are being decided. Thus, by looking at an average duration of the procedure, for example in 2011 from the receipt of the complaint until the dispatch of the decision itself, the number of days was 61 days. He is somewhere on average when looking at the average duration of the appeal procedure he averages 51 days. In these conditions, when a strong pace of investment cycle is also expected, let's say, public enterprises, public procurement obligations that order goods, works in particular and services with an emphasis and large infrastructure works, of course, that this average of 51 days is something that in some way stops the moment of decision-making, or the moment when it can be concluded, and later consume and pay off the contract itself. And that is precisely why, among other things, with an increased number of members and with a different way of deciding through the council, it wants to enable just to increase efficiency. That's not the only reason, of course. The second reason I will also remind the fact that Croatia's entry into the EU will reflect the use of access funds or funds from structural cohesion funds that will take place no longer at the threshold of the rules but under the rules of national law, or precisely under the Public Procurement Act. So, according to the section of domestic legislation, the state commission now decides for 7 months before the state commission, the appeal procedures will be based on the tenders implemented for the allocation of funds from accessing structural or cohesion funds to which national legislation will apply from 1.7. So, and the increased number of members and the increased number of councils, their specialisation is also in some way a step towards preparation and the additional scope and scope of the work that will definitely be found before the State Commission What we also want to avoid, that is, what the practice itself has shown, and of course it is anything that is negative to anything that leads to legal uncertainty and doubt should be corrected. In practice, such criticisms have often been noted that the decisions of the State Commission itself contain different expressions and are related to the same situations, the same legal situations, the same basis of the decision on the ground of appeal, which, of course, creates the legal uncertainty of the addressee of the Public Procurement Act and the concessions of the Public Private Partnership Act, so that this novel also introduces the moment of unification and the practice of the State Commission itself. But it is also an obligation that we prescribe that those decisions in which the state commission deviates from legal understanding or established practice must be further laid down in the very words of the State Commission. So here's the bottom line, this proposal is aimed at at at least two segments. The first is to simply bridge some of the living circumstances in the very application of the current legislative framework, so it is simply a little bit better for those situations that suffer criticism primarily of those to whom the law applies, especially those which appear as complainants in these proceedings, to wave about the private sector, and, on the other hand, to achieve stronger efficiency and the possibility of faster, more efficient and specialised approach to resolving cases in the appeal proceedings before the state commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26329	I thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club Damir Cain was reported. No club loses him right to argue. On behalf of the HNS club, MP Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26330	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy with the associates. For the beginning of the classics, the HNS Club will support this bill. What exactly is this about? It is a correction of the law accompanying public procurement and the appeal procedure in the area of public procurement because the current practice of applying the existing law has shown that the number of appeal procedures is growing year by year and that this system of processing of cases in front of the state commission is too complicated, too complicated and taking too much time, and the existing approved apparatus, i.e. the state commission or norms assigned to it for its work for a year and year, has become increasingly lagging behind, i.e. the procedure itself takes longer and longer and longer. Thus, a 61-day resolution rate is currently reached, the increase in 2008 compared to 2007 is 62%, 39% more than in 2008 and it is clear that we need to make certain adjustments in this part if we want to raise efficiency and remove those... that appeal procedures are made realistically in public procurement procedures, and thus also slow down certain projects and economic activities that are subject to public procurement. What this law is trying to achieve is to shorten procedures, procedures for processing cases. Namely, what the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures should do in the future is to act exclusively within the limits of the allegations of appeal, not to review the full documentation which is sometimes so extensive that it requires of course a lot of resources and time and people who are authorised to carry out the procedure. Also, in public procurement procedures that have great value, compensation for the appeal procedure is also raised, because so far it has been popular and the biggest acquisitions to be put on the task of processing the State Board with a very simple motive, and this is potentially trying to bring down the competition and thus gets a new chance when it has already been learned of the prices that exist in the competition, to try to re-election with the football dictionary told the shooting of a free shot, that is, to repeat the competition and a new chance to get a job. What to say, before the Republic of Croatia, is now also the task of realising projects that will be financed from pre-accession funds, funds that have their own time limit and in that part is one of the interests of the Republic of Croatia to speed up public procurement processes, to reduce the number of fallen competitions, and that indeed competitions are cancelled when real grounds exist. The adoption of this law improves the institutional form that will allow for increased efficiency in the resolution of complaints. The key news in this law is the increase in the number of members of the State Commission, as well as the possibility of breaking them into three commissions, so the number of members from 5 to 9 is increasing and a model is being established that will allow the three committees to form a parallel resolution of appeal procedures and also, for very complex cases, the possibility of making decisions at council meetings composed of several members. What the club and the HNS and the SDP noticed was that it would be necessary to correct it, it was actually contained in the amendment we proposed on this law, and it concerns the appointment of members of the State Board to remove any doubt and any speculation in the manner and criteria for selecting members and to provide the necessary elements of transparency, the HNS Club and the SDP Club have proposed an amendment to which it is essential that members of the State Commission are selected through a public tender. In addition to this amendment, in any case, the HNS, I repeat, believes that these adjustments are necessary and that this law creates assumptions for more effective processing of cases in proceedings, appeal procedures related to public procurement, and for this reason, the HNS Club will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26331	Thank you very much. Croatian Labourist-Party of Work and Honorable Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26332	Dear President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's the 13th hour, we came in today to work on me on a very important agenda point, but well, we should do it. We have a proposal for a law on the State Commission to control public procurement procedures. According to that law, the State Commission is an independent state body, responsible for resolving complaints in the procurement process, giving concessions and selecting private partners in a public private partnership. The Commission handles about 180 cases a month, whether it's much or little we can estimate, I think it's quite a bit. The legislator is trying to convince us that the key reason for the adoption of this law is to improve the legal protection system for the use of the funds of the European Union funds. It claims that Croatia's entry into the European Union will lead to an increase in the volume of procurement, which will require more legal protection. Although we have an existing Law on the State Commission from 2010, and we can enter the European Union only on July 1st next year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided that it is necessary to pass a whole new law by an urgent procedure which is somewhere when I compared this proposal and that law somewhere around 70% of the text prescribed by the previous law. The question arises why, then, by an urgent procedure and by the government of the Republic of Croatia's hastening. From the ruling SDPs and the HNS, we have received some proposals on Article 8, an amendment that greatly improves certain shortcomings that are in the bill itself, but I have tried in some way and I have tried to compare two laws to see what this difference is and what are important changes and we can put them somewhere in four groups. In the new bill, the State Commission has nine members, before it had five members. This means an increase of 4 members, which will clearly require greater funding in itself. If we go back to funding for this year, the rebalancing funds for the commission are about 400,000 kuna, while the new 2013 budget further reduced around 100,000 kuna. A new 4 members a year will cost at least one estimate, and probably more than one million kuna, which is an additional cost. It will certainly not be a sustainability of the budget. The transitional and final provisions say all employees will be taken over and retain their labour rights. If I'm not wrong about those data we had before, there's 32 employees on the commission and I'm asking myself clearly whether it's a savings that the government of the Republic of Croatia advocates or whether it's going to be an extra cost for four people. Or perhaps, in order to maintain certain resources, there will be redundancies in the part of the workers but perhaps also the reduction of certain rights of the staff working around the commission. The other thing I'd like to point out the same is that in the previous law, the internal structure prescribed the Statute that confirmed the Parliament. In the new law, the internal structure will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, the Parliament won't be able to have any more influence because there's no statute that's been thrown out of the law. There is only one thing that can be concluded from this is the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to this House of Commons. The government, wherever it may be, puts it above the Parliament, and it becomes nothing more than a voting machine. The reduction of his authority under certain laws, and he practically gives himself jurisdiction over what once stood and was in the presence of this Parliament. The third important thing for me is the same, and that's the news that there is no more competitions for members of the president and deputy state commission. The government will only propose a appointment to the Parliament based on minimum compliance with the criteria of the law. The selection of personnel even excluded the criteria for candidates to meet the condition that they were judges or lawyers for at least six years. Why did the Government of the Republic of Croatia facilitate the criteria only she knows, but I am giving myself the right to interpret that it will make it easier for her like-minded people to propose to appoint this Parliament. Whether the State Commission will continue to be an independent and independent, independent body, as it says in the law, I clearly doubt this new law, because the law does not practically go that way. The fourth and most important thing to me is the fact that the public works of the State Commission that was prescribed in the former law are excluded. According to her, the commission was obliged to make all decisions public. According to this new proposal, the public should be excluded, so it will be easier with a commission that will depend solely on the government or depends on what decisions it will make to exclude the public. I don't see any reason other than to possibly hide something from this same public. Although we know that public procurement is the biggest generator of corruption, we believe that this law is a major step backwards and that public procurement should practically go in a better direction when it comes to transparency and better and efficient public procurement which this law will not do in this proposal. This is the proposal of Croatian Labourists - the parties of work will not support it because it can only do damage to public procurement. We suggest that this law goes to another reading, to make certain changes in it that will make public procurement control better than in this case worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26333	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Tušak, of course you have the right to your own opinion and even the right to your doubts. As far as they are justified, I would not engage in comments, but what I would like to draw your attention to I am speaking from the position of not a parliamentary representative but the mayor of a large city that has a large range of jobs and which is very often required to call a tender under the Public Procurement Act. No large construction work is almost gone without an appeal attempt and any appeal, or any complaint against the State Commission, slows down the implementation of not only competitions, but also the assignment of jobs, the selection of bidders by the basis of the Law, the assignment of jobs and the conduct of economic activities. At this moment, in all of Croatia, there is only one example of the loss of thousands of hours of work in the work of the State Board of Appeals for the control of public procurement slows down economic activity in the construction sector. Sometimes even whole businesses fail, the deadlines for funding individual projects due to the length of the procurement process and the appeal procedures. And that is a lot more than four workers, loss of jobs, loss of economic activity, loss of unrealisation of projects has damage and economic and social far greater than the damage or additional cost of 4 employees that you have apostrophe in your exposure that will burden the state budget. I think we should look at it from that point of view, not just from the point of view, but from the proverbially expressed doubts about the ruling coalition's fair intentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26335	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26336	Thank you, Vice President. So, my colleague Baranovic, I can agree with you that there is a certain problem when it comes to the appeal procedure, but when the appeal procedure is concluded in whose interest it is not to publish certain decisions and to remove it from a certain law. Who's going in favor of hiding from the public certain things? I don't see any other thing than to hide something from the same public. And clearly this proposal is not good, and I've pointed out these certain problems. I haven't been getting into any trouble whether the procedure itself lasts long, whether it damages, but in the context of resolving this law, no part of it has been done. These four men won't solve anything, when we talk about a certain speed of appeal. But the public won't know who was complaining, what decision was made, and ultimately there is no longer the statute that this House gave him and it was based on him. There will now be only a regulation of the government of the Republic of Croatia to work on, and the Government can change that however it pleases. I was talking about marginalizing this House in this way because some of the powers that the Parliament had are being transferred to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26337	Second replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26338	On behalf of the club, a colleague expressed the dispute in essence that this is going according to an emergency procedure, and precisely because this government, the Labour Club, of course, so this government, with this law that is not European law, shows how sensitive it is to the needs of the economy at the moment and how much public procurement with the existing law prevented the possibility of a part of the investment cycle being launched in that strategy that was made by this government and the public sector. And that's why she went with this urgent procedure, and that's why we support him, and that's why it's important to show the public that we know and feel the problems of this society, especially the economy, and to react in a way that is appropriate. As for the public and do not complain to the public in public procurement, public procurement complains if they are complaining about the first-degree procurement procedure of those involved and they must clearly get an explanation by law as well as in what way. And this is one big message for all future partners who will participate in the public procurement of Croatia by joining the EU that we are ready to react in the right way and to speed up the procedures that when they report for public procurement if they complain that they will receive a fair and quick answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26339	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26340	Thank you, Vice President. So this when you're talking to me about public procurement, and you're trying to convince me that it's better to be semi-secret or secret procurement because I don't know why we're afraid of the public and why we shouldn't talk about public procurement to know everything and to know in public whether there are certain gaps. And as far as the economy and the concern of this economy are concerned, we see how much investment we have in the economy, and we see 350 thousand unemployed who are at the Employment Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26341	SDP club and Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26342	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It's already too late, as counterpart Milinkovic would have said already we're all psychophysically a little bit down and there's a lot of things being said, but I have to say here two, three things on behalf of the SDP club. So, for the start of the SDP club, it supports this bill, and the most important thing to point out here is that since 2003, when the Commission established the Law on the State Commission to Oversight the implementation of public procurement over the years has grown and changed so that since 2010, the adoption of a new Law on the State Commission has extended the jurisdiction to resolve complaints in public procurement procedures, to grant concessions and to choose a private partner in public-private partnership projects. What is crucial is that the commission today numbers five members of which one president and one deputy and that all decisions are made through the work of only one council. And it has been reported that from 2008 to today, the number of cases has increased, more and more appeal procedures, but also continued complaints are made by economic operators and contracting entities at all levels of slowness and length of proceedings. The average duration of the appeal proceedings has already been highlighted by the deputy minister. It is certainly too long, so in 2012, it is on average 51 days and if it is taken into account that the average duration of public procurement procedures is 63 days then it is clear that the appeal procedure before the State Commission is too long and that it is not effective. In the light of the fact that any initiation of the appeal procedure puts a stop to the public procurement contract as well as any investment, and in particular the investment of large infrastructure projects, the importance of the effectiveness of the appeal procedures is therefore extremely highlighted, so an institutional framework should be improved which will allow for increased efficiency in the resolution of complaints. Real, fast and effective protection of the rights of economic operators at the stage of the proceedings when illegality can still be corrected in time and enable the continuation and legal completion of the procurement procedure to be completed is already sufficiently regulated and the new Public Procurement Act which entered into force on 1 January of this year. Moreover, there have been increased charges for the appeal procedure, and in particular for public procurement procedures very high assessment of the value because today's practice has unfortunately shown that a large number of complaints have been lodged exclusively with the aim of stopping, i.e. the intentional blockade of the conclusion of a public procurement contract, rather than with the aim of real protection of the rights of a specific economic operator. In short, the new Public Procurement Act has made a significant contribution to improving the public procurement system, but there is still a need to further strengthen the capacity of the state commission with a view to increasing the effectiveness of the appeal procedures. One of the key reasons for improving the legal protection system in the Republic of Croatia is to prepare for the use of EU funds and that is one of the key reasons why this law is being passed today. On the date of accession to the procurement procedures in the EU Funds funding projects, national public procurement legislation is beginning to apply, and this is a significant difference compared to pre-accession EU programmes. Accordingly, a significant increase in the volume of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia is expected and a significant increase in legal protection requirements is expected as a consequence. It is therefore necessary to adapt and prepare the structure and capacities of the State Commission to increase the envisaged volume of work in order to enable the rapid and effective conclusion of contracts and the implementation of projects financed from these funds. This is also an obligation highlighted in a comprehensive monitoring report for Croatia by the EU Commission in October of this year as a commitment by the Republic of Croatia in Chapter 5 of public procurement. The adoption of this law will improve the institutional form that will allow for the efficiency of the resolution of complaints and the key change that is planned to achieve is the increase of the number of members of the state commission from the current five to the nine and the establishment of three-member councils whose meetings will take decisions on appeal procedures. At the same time, the parallel council will make it possible for the three Councils to significantly speed up the resolution of the State Commission's case on the basis of the basis of the applicable law, that the State Commission should make decisions through the work of only one council and, as the Deputy Minister has already said, if very complex cases arise, it is possible to draw up a council of several members to make decisions easier. And the one that's important is the big problem that's here, which is really often taking different decisions from the state commission regarding the same situations in public procurement procedures, and that's where this law creates the unification of procedures of conduct and practice. Provisions shall be introduced on the prevention of unequal behaviour, anti-registration or deviation from established practice in the work of individual councils of the State Commission. The State Commission also undertakes to further explain the reasons for such decisions in cases where the State Commission is obliged to withdraw from legal understanding or established practice. The SDP supports this law, and we also expect the government to accept the amendment of the SDP Club of Representatives and the Club of HNS Representatives, which we ask that members of the commission be selected by public tenders and that is precisely the answer to fellow Tusak that this guarantees that these people will not then be biased but guarantees one impartiality in the decision-making process. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26343	For HDZ clubs, the views will be expressed by respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputys with Associates, colleagues and colleagues here at this late hour we are discussing a law that is very, very important and I wouldn't look at it like this, we're just looking at something here to increase the number of committee members, to make the commission as effective as possible, as if the commission were to blame for some things. But this law simply means something else. The way and model of how we will replace those who are not similar to us, and these are existing members of the commission and that is a fact because it is true that it cannot be escaped because it is very strange that the Resort Ministry is doing this law and that the tactically existing commission does not consult about the law at all but was done in the way it was done. Later on, I will say something at the end of my debate also so that there is not enough financial resources in the budget to be provided for this law because if you look at the 2013 draft budget, then you will see that you do not have enough money for all the things you talk about with so much praise, that there are nine new people, etc. But at the beginning of the debate, I also want to say something, why the appeal? So it is not the Commission's fault for the complaints, the number of complaints has increased as the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia grew, as more bidders appeared in one tender due to lack of work. And then the normal thing they complained about, hoping to get a job again, so there's no need for a man to be too wise to say why it's happening. Another thing to say is that something will be more transparent and public if it isn't published, if it isn't published on the Commission's website, it's just ridiculous. Look, a large part of the members of the existing commission are people appointed by the coalition government at the time of the adoption of the Public Procurement Commission Act, so that commission is not the HDZ Government in 8 years has virtually changed two or three members no matter who appoints them and how they are named. It's very important and later on, I'm going to say, through certain articles, very important independently of this body. If we really want to say that we're going to fight corruption, that we want to continue fighting corruption, then it's extremely important that one of the most important bodies in the country be independent, that it's not under political pressure, that people who do this job are aware that virtually nobody but this High Oma can do their job honestly. But you will see that, unfortunately, by many terms of this law, it is not. Because look from the smallest commissioner to the Prime Minister practically on all these affairs is decided by the Commission and tomorrow will decide on the EU-funded jobs and if in any way the member of the Commission feels some kind of uncertainty he is not independent, he will at some point think about what someone will do if I do this. And that's what's not good. And I like to say that sometimes the ex-post mind is good, so also after the Committee on Economy, where at the first session here, there is a colleague Radjenovic, the chairman of the Committee of the Agenda's Committee, has been removed because of a series of unknowns and after criticism especially about the fact that members of the Commission are named by a public tender, I am pleased that the ruling coalition has proposed this amendment, but it is just one small, small segment that will do something else because a bunch of acts that are important for the work of the Commission do not bring this High House to the Commission but proposes them by the Government. If the Government proposes something then the Government is practically conducting with that body and that is what is not happening at the Competition Protection Agency, we have already eliminated HANFA practically there is no such thing as an administrative apparatus that does some work, but we simply cannot allow it to happen to us with the Public Procurement Commission. I'd even say it's not politically wise. It is not wise for this government to take four steps back with this law. It's not smart, it's politically unwise. And at least stay on the same level as before, and don't go back. Now let's go through the articles to see what this will do to improve or what it will reverse, and how innocent he is if he is aware that tomorrow the Prime Minister or some minister or state secretary or the director of some public company with his political sense cut off his head. Because look under the old law, the members of the commission had to do some terrible work so that this High House could replace them. Under this law, it's not like that. Therefore, Article 3(1) states that the State Commission is an independent state body, etc. It states that it is independent if Article 5(2) of the Internal Design Regulation brings the Government also in Article 21(5). The regulation on the internal order of the State Commission requires the consent of the central authority of the State administration. If these acts were brought by the Parliament, then we could talk about independence, and now we're even descending below the government level to the resolution ministry. Is such acts for the Competition Protection Agency... the same way they don't bring it. And that's what's wrong, so you can talk as much as you want about transparency. You said you had tabled an amendment to appoint members of the commission to the Parliament on a proposal from the government. So how will the government get those names? Chiribu-ciriba. In what way? So you have to call a public tender. Is this what you suggested following the comments on the Committee on the Economy. Had it not been for the HDZ's remarks and that counterpart Rajedenovic had not had enough political wisdom to withdraw the law while some things were resolved. I mean, I'm telling you straight here because we know what the discussion was on the Committee on Economy. Let Igor replicate, and I'll answer him. It is also evident that members do not want professional and experienced when they are like each other, and that was why the competition was avoided. Now this is very interesting. Article 10(4) shall not be a member of a political party during the term of office. So the call is open and I report to the competition and I'm a member of the CNS, the SDP, what I know about IDS, and I take my job, and then I'm not a member of these parties anymore, and I'm going to go back to my dear party who gave me such a nice job at the moment when I'm no longer a member of the commission. However, if the provisions would say that at least a year before that he should not be a member of any political party then we would talk about political independence because you can be sure if he writes that he is a member of the HDSSB, a laborer, and do not give the god of the HDZ or the HSS, or we will have no way of having access to the competition, let alone someone to talk to him. So much for political failure. And Article 12(1) and the Vice-President will respond to this comment, point 2. The Veli Croatian Parliament may resolve the article of the State Commission before the end of the term of office on a proposal from the Government if the conditions for appointment laid down in Article 9 of the Law cease to exist. And now see what article 9 of this Law says in Article 9 are the conditions that a member must meet in order to be appointed. Now watch, how can I stop the conditions if you have already met the conditions to be appointed and now says during the service to you at once those conditions you met at the moment of appointment no longer you have these terms, i.e. You objected to the one who named you, so let's beat you up and fly out of there. I mean, this is also an adventurous article about how political control of independent bodies is being carried out. But make sure that these provisions of the law at least what I know happened to some other institutions will not be looked kindly at from Brussels. It then states Article 12(1), paragraphs 5, 6 and 7. Major provisions are general and should be defined and that is how a member of the state commission can actually be recalled. Which should mean, without a reasonable reason, he's not doing the work of a member of the state commission, he's not professionally doing his duty, so he hasn't solved the subject the way I wanted him to, and he's not automatically professional, and since I've arranged everything for him alive, I'm going to get him out of there. But before, no one could move him except this high house, and that's a big difference. Look at the old law so you'll see that a member of the state commission was practically impossible to replace if a man was doing his job correctly before the term of office, you couldn't change it. And that's his independence, if he's doing his job fair and square. And now from these allegations you see that practically someone remembers not telling him the good day he wanted and he suggested it and they replaced him because they would find him a reason not to meet some conditions and not meet some conditions. Here are just some things colleagues and colleagues do about how party staffing is done, how people who know how to do their jobs are eliminated. And what is in no way clear to me is a state commission article named for a five-year period with the possibility of another appointment. So, realistically, how many of us in Croatia currently have professional people who can do this job in quality? Very little. And after two mandates pass, we say that these people are not professional, they're not good, someone else needs to work. Give me one state institution, one political function where the mandate is limited to two mandates. Tell me in this country if it exists. It doesn't exist. ... Well, the President of the Republic, we won't compare the President of the Republic to this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's what my colleagues and colleagues had to say on behalf of the HDZ Club, now I'm going to go back to that financial part. So in the 2012 budget, this commission had 8 million and 300,000 kuna at its disposal, and the 2013 budget said there would be 7 million and 968 thousand kuna. Now the question arises if we will have new members of the commission from where they will be financed, and let's say in 2011, the Commission decides on the fate of public procurement totalling 20 billion kuna. So colleagues and colleagues, you should have been a little more resourceful, a little more resourceful, find a little simpler and a better way to eliminate those who won't listen to you. But they're not crazy in Brussels, they're not going to get over some things. Both colleagues and colleagues should not, because of this party resemblance Croatia should not start returning money as is unfortunately the case for the Slovenians. And even though you pushed this at 11 o'clock we're always ready to warn of certain municipalities, we warned once and at 2 o'clock in the morning, it just seems to me that since the fight against corruption won't stay at the end of this term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26345	We have a few replicas. First respected representative Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in short, I'm not going to go into content, although I don't agree with a lot of things, so the only reason Mr Schucker said is that I think even twice that this debate was taken off the debate on the Committee on the Economy because of the lack of quality of the proposal, and he praised my political wisdom. Thank you for that commendation, but I didn't have that political wisdom there. We've been discussing the law, and why you and your HDZ colleagues left in the middle of a debate about this point of the agenda I don't know, probably trying to bring down the quorum, but that's already another question. I thank you for all your constructive discussions on the Committee on the Economy, so continue, very often we will respect your thoughts and get to the best of laws. About the good part of this, I think you've gone a little too far, and given how many hours it might be, it doesn't matter anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26347	Another replica, respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. What? ... Yeah? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, I didn't see. Here you go. Here's your colleague Shuker. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26348	I know that Igor is uncomfortable when HDZ gives him a compliment that he has procletic wisdom but the debate is interrupted because we couldn't get answers to specific questions and after we couldn't get answers to concrete questions, the exact answers, after the representative of the commission said they weren't consulted about the law, we left the committee for the simple reason we're going to be on the board, how we're going to vote for something if the proposing tells us one thing, the representatives of the commission say the other. However, I have just said a few striking things that suggest that this commission will unfortunately not be independent. And read better these articles, compare them with the old ones, and you will see that it is so. And I don't think anyone here is in the best interest of this commission being overcome by a single shred of doubt. If we are all constantly talking about AZTN that we need and AZTN has prevented certain things from happening because of its firm attitudes, so it is also very important for us that because of the spending of budget money, it is important for us tomorrow because of the spending of EU funds to have proper competitions, that all irregularities and... react in accordance with the law and regulations, rather than according to some will and political pressures.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26349	Another replica, respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26350	Well, I have to react. Comrade Shuker, I think it's really good for you that it's so late and that there's so little of us because you won't be hearing this lecture about the correctness and honesty of the HDZ government that in all these eight years, 10 years, you said you haven't replaced more than 2 members or replaced more than 2 members of the commission. But Mr. Shuker, you here the basic thing that's being discussed here is that this commission is because we're not talking about that she hasn't been doing well, she just hasn't done it effectively enough and fast enough and we need to create legal preconditions for her to be able to do it. And in advance, you impute this government to suspect that it will exert political pressure, or in some way create your insinuations, to create the composition of that body which is not visible in any article in the bill. So I don't think anyone suspects the correctness of the people who've done it before. They were great to you, or great to do, and how they've been doing right this whole time in a way that they've de facto blocked a whole series of investments in this country over the last 4.5 years, and you're justifying it with a large number of complaints. Well, there are a lot of complaints, but then something needs to be done to solve it, and this is a bill that's trying to solve it. Surely it will not be perfect and I believe that even this number of people proposed in this law will probably not be enough to withstand the future pressure that this body will have to do with complaints in these proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26351	The reply to the replica, dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26352	Dear fellow Đuric, I wanted only to defend the dignity of the existing commission. You want to cut it down, you won't. However, one member of that commission is otherwise a member of your party removed because of certain things that have the elements of criminal acts and judicial judgments, etc. I didn't say that about a pay phone. But since you like to call HDZ, I think it's the least anyone who could and should call HDZ, but well, that's your right. On the basis of quoting certain articles, I tried to raise my suspicions that the government's excessive influence on certain processes in the Commission's work could be harmful. I didn't say this or this. But if you lower independence from one body by several levels then it can suggest that something might happen tomorrow. I didn't say it would happen. But it's very interesting how you found yourself hit. So your reaction here tells us that still some provisions on these articles suggest that some things can happen tomorrow. If you're allowed to say things like this, let me quote certain provisions of certain articles and say some things that I doubt can happen and pray nicely. But this is how it turns out now that HDZ shouldn't tell me anything, but I say food chains are weird. Ask God who someone else will deal with.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26353	And the last replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26354	Dear counterpart Schuker has repeatedly stressed the independence of the State Commission, or members of the State Commission. But independence doesn't mean inability. Independence also involves first-class responsibility, and then it is related to exchangeability. Therefore, it is the key to independence. Not that anyone can be, so no one can do anything to him, but that he has a responsibility, and by this law, he knows exactly what the rules of the game are, let's say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26355	And the final answer to the last line, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26356	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Gjurkovic, for me independence just means that no one can influence you and a great responsibility. Because if you give someone independence, then you expect from them a great responsibility to work and law enforcement. Because if you give someone the opportunity to do their job, that no one can influence them, then it's a logical thing that this institution, those people who do this job, have a huge responsibility. Because they practically have the law that brought this House of Commons. By virtue of that law, they make certain decisions which may be fatal to certain economic operators. And so that's their responsibility. And when I talk about independence, then I'm talking about responsibility. But if their workplace is compromised with some strange criteria that can happen here, if it doesn't meet the requirements. How he does not meet the conditions if he met them at the time of appointment. If the basis of any strange decisions can be removed, it is no longer independence. But if any shifts can only be decided by this High House, then they won't be able to replace someone without a valid argument. But I repeat, what we all in Croatia should realize is that there are few of us, that we do not have so many educated and professional people who can do certain jobs to just throw themselves at them. So I was talking in that context. And I didn't say in any word that SDP, HNS or anyone else would make any insubordination. I didn't say that. You can look at the phonogram. But I said this kind of approach opens up the possibility of some things. All people are bloody under the skin. You don't know how anyone's going to react at what time and what kind of pressure they're going to put on. Therefore, the amendment to the Law on Mail points to certain things, and I am sorry that 11,000 Croatian mailmen did not hear the explanation of the amendment tomorrow, so they would hear their reaction to correctness.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26357	Thank you very much. And the last club, the HDSSB Club and the esteemed representative Igor Chešek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26358	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. A fellow Shuker has really vividly pointed out all the shortcomings in this bill and after that, I don't really know what to say. There is, the fact that there may be a need to increase the number of council members, i.e. the State Commission’s report on public procurement procedures itself, shows that the number of complaints addressed to the Commission is increasing from year to year. Thus, in 2008, the number of complaints was 1020, in 2010. In 2011, there were 1921 appeals cases. 269 items were transferred from 2010 and the total number of items was 2190, which was solved in 1888 cases and 302 cases were pending. If we consider that 1888 items have been solved, and the number of working days in 2011 was 260, and we divide that number by 260 and the number of working days turns out that the State Commission for Public Procurement Control has been working on 7.20 items daily. Therefore, the possibility of increasing the number of members of the State Commission may be justified. But what we at the HDSSB club in no way support is how this law is passed. Why am I saying that? The government of the Republic of Croatia has again deceived this Assembly and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because on December 4th we voted on the budget of whatever it was for 2013 with projections for 2014 and 2015, so that the Government in the parliamentary procedure would send this bill, noting that there should be an increase in salary expenditure of 750 thousand kuna. This is in the draft 2013 budget with projections for 2014 and 2015 is nowhere to be seen and that is what we are against absolutely. Because it is mentioned in the 2012 staff expenditures of 5,666 million kuna, in 2013, as much as in 2014, as in 2015 5 million and 779 thousand 051 kuna. So these 750 thousand kunas aren't planned in the state budget. Now, what was interesting to me, I don't know if there's been any mistake, correct me if I'm wrong, the proposal for a law on the ground mentions that these 750 thousand kunas will be provided by redistribution from the Ministry of Economy's budget, and the report from the Committee on Economy that we got on the bench today in that report says that the proposaler's representative explained that the necessary funds would be provided by redistribution within the Ministry of Finance. Now, please have someone, or the chairman of the Committee on Economy or the representatives of the legislator of this law explain to me from which ministry will the funds be rerouted? That's what I saw and I really don't get it, it's obvious that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making fools of parliamentary representatives and making fools of Croatian citizens. Probably to hide these mistakes and cover up exactly why they're arguing at 23.25 hours. From all this above, the HDSSB will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26359	What? You have to lift up the replica, you have to lift the tile at the time while the speaker speaks. I'm sorry, for you as well as for everyone else. Damir Cain, individually. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Does the Deputy Minister want it to be final? Deputy Minister of Economy Tamara Obradović-Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26360	Thank you. I promise I'll be brief. There were a couple, of course there were some sharp tones, anyway thanks for the debate. I owe at least a few answers. I suppose the Chairman of the Committee on Economy wanted to replicate in the section relating to finance, i.e. the Ministry of Economy and redistribution, so if you let me do it. It is about the redistribution of the proposal that we have sent to the Ministry of Finance which must, of course, be approved and technically implemented, 750 thousand kuna from the basis of the budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2013 to redistribute funds for the financing of additional members of the State Commission. So, after thanks for having held the debate, a few brief reviews. Public announcement of decisions, yes. I kindly ask the Public Procurement Act Article 171 paragraph 4 of Article 5 of the public publication of decisions in the public procurement appeal procedure in order to avoid double normity of the same situation roof law, the Public Procurement Act, I repeat Article 171 paragraph 4 paragraph 5 of the decision-publishing obligation. Conditions for a member and conditions for the president, you said there were no conditions. The president – a judicial exam, 10 years of work in the profession after a judicial examination, 3 years of experience in public procurement are conditions for the president. Let's say I fill them. In the terms of the debate, which in some way goes to retaining the current status which is, of course, justified when a man does his job and in the situation of an independent institution, it is of course that I would never have a chance to get a job as president and perhaps a member of the Council of the State Commission. Maybe sometimes you just have to profile both knowledge and experience. I have, say, proven experience in public procurement, I meet absolutely all the conditions I would be honored to apply for President of the State Commission once in my life and I hope... And I thank you for that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I believe that both knowledge and experience and some new approach would contribute to the work of the State Commission. And everyone who thinks they can put pressure on me can try and I'll just hang on to it. Members of the State Commission, four members, lawyers, ten years of work in the profession, three years in public procurement. The other 4 ten years of work in the profession, for three years in public procurement, I deliberately stress public procurement because procurement in the private sector and public procurement are not the same. I think these terms are just enough. The funds were redistributed from the base of the head, i.e. the head of the Ministry of Economy. Now we come to a segment that is the statute, or regulation, namely this State Commission, as well as a series of institutions at this point are passing the horizontal alignment carried out by the Ministry of Administration. It is about adapting to the state administration system where workers of the State Commission and other institutions will become state services. The bodies become the legal status of a state body that must have a regulation, not a statute. It is a horizontal measure that is implemented at the level of absolutely all institutions. I'd like to know at this point if AZTN's going through it, I don't know, so I'd rather not look back on it. Dear Representative Schuker mentioned a year before the council's term of office. Otherwise, in our one proposal, we asked for five. So that the person who has been running for a member of the Council of the State Commission for five years is not partyly active, that was our proposal and that proposal was rejected from the basis of constitutionality. So we went, I'd say, for five times the length of the period, just from the same base. So there is no potential political impact on the work of a member of the State Commission. Unfortunately, the proposal was rejected from the basis of the opposition to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the violation simply so that the justification went to human rights violations in its expression and political engagement. As for the termination of the conditions, so we have the conditions, so suddenly we don't have to admit that we've been led in one piece by a really embarrassing fact, which is, for example, the false qualifications that are in the system, which are recorded, which we know are at least so exposed. So, let's say this is one of the circumstances that can actually happen, which can be realistically determined, so that those conditions that existed on a day that someone could fake their own judicial or could fake their own diploma, it was discovered after a while, that's of course the reason for stopping exactly that condition on the basis of which man was elected. As regards the general prohibition of influence on the work of members of the State Council and insurance and independence, Article 6. The proposal prohibits the explicit influence of any pressure at the level of the offence that is punishable by fines, so no one can and I hope that it does not call it a member of the state council and I wish that he will vote on the council and wish that the state commission solves his case in a permanent manner. And two more remarks regarding Brussels a month and a half ago, so like all other acts and this act, we went through the European Commission a month and a half ago, and we got a positive statement from the European Commission, given that there is a special directive that regulates the work, the way it works, while Sui Genis neither the judicial or the governing body that decides in these procedures, so here is the concern that Brussels will tell us something, Brussels gave us a green light a month and a half ago. And lastly, if we cannot put e-mail, meetings and written indications on the bill in the category of participation in the debate of this proposal, I think that, through e-mail communication, we have consulted the members of the state commission directly on the law which affects their work and business to the greatest extent possible. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26361	Replica, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and thank you for not getting up. There were obviously little misunderstandings about this meeting of the Committee on Economy on the very formulation, namely in the context of a broad public debate, as I said in previous replicas of the Committee on Economy itself, where everyone can say everything and where we can hear all the opinions, and therefore the representatives of the State Commission of the current state commission were invited. The deputy lady came and made all her observations about it. What really happened and the mistake in this report, so what Mr. Czech said and Mrs. Deputy who wasn't at that session, so she can't even be correct until the end, she was a representative, actually true because she wasn't there, was Mrs. Teja Kolar as a representative of the Ministry of Economy. There's really been a slip, and there's been a copy mistake, and I apologize to all my colleagues who read it very carefully. So it was said by redistributing within the scope of the Ministry of Economy and the conclusion that my colleague, Češek, had drawn that the Croatian government was misleading and misleading the Croatian Parliament because of a small mistake that we made, perhaps some of the eyes were large, but still from my little one, I signed, here I apologize to everyone, and also to Mr. Chesek, my mistake was to redistribute correctly within the Ministry of Economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26363	Second replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, I'm glad to hear what Mrs. Deputy said about my colleague Rajenovic, this High House has a Rules of Procedure which says that legal proposals that are not provided with financial resources cannot be discussed, cannot be voted on. That's one thing. On the other hand, on the one hand, the government minister of finance assures us at the moment of the budget that everything is naked that nothing can be taken down from nowhere, now all of a sudden everyone is saying that the redistribution is going to happen. In public finances, the redistribution takes place at the end of the year when in a position or somewhere some costs rise and it is evident that money could have been scrapped in a position. If you say you're able to re-distribute at the beginning of the year, then forgive me, if I were the Minister of Finance, I would never sign that redistribution because that's proof that they didn't know, not you, but that the government just didn't know how the legal proposals would send this House of Commons. Because if we stick to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President, we should not vote in this law on Friday because no funds are provided for him. We, with the redistribution of funds, can come into a position that for another legislative proposal or something will be insufficient in the Ministry of Economy. Why, among other things, in each bill, it is usually the three-point assessment of the necessary means to implement the law, for the simple reason not to put all the addictions in a position to adopt a certain legislative proposal, a law that will create new financial obligations that are not secured in the state budget. And we here repeat, we will ensure it by redistributing funds. You must not touch the budget or touch it first until 31.12., nor must the Government make any decision on redistribution because you did not start to consume the 2013 budget. If there's only one more sentence, please, since it's too late. And this is a well-intentioned proposal, because the government cannot now decide to redistribute the funds for next year because it is practically not even published to clean this budget for 2013. So, colleagues and colleagues, this is a legal trap for you. The other day with this Biofuels Agency, you've been running around in a certain way even though you're going to have a problem with the State Audit because you haven't been dismembered, and this Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, I'm asking the Bureau to look at it, because we will certainly comment on this and on the second one when we vote, because ultimately this is our obligation. And look at the Rules of Procedure, and you will see. Thank you very much for giving me that for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26365	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And tonight, we're going to risk the Secretary of Parliament getting these inventory plates, so stick it to our backs, discuss another agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26366	We will now move to a vote and a decision on the completion of the debates on agendas. First is the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ E No. 230. We discussed this final bill at the 12th month last year, but today we decide. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 84 votes in favour and 38 votes against the adopted Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26367	And tonight, we're going to risk the Secretary of Parliament getting these inventory plates, so stick it to our backs, discuss another agenda point. This will be - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Real estate, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 231 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? There's no need. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to either. Then I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the IDS club Damir Qin. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the HNS club Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Madam Minister and Associates. Part of the inventory on behalf of the HNS Club in 23.39 in the shortest lines, the purpose of the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of Real estate with the Final Proposal of the Law is to align it with the legal acquis of the EU, or more specifically, with the provision of the content of the EU Services Directive. Under this draft law, conditions are laid down for the provision of services in real estate trade, equalising what is new in this law and why harmonisation has to be carried out is the fact that the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and this part of the market opens up for companies in the EU, that Croatia is obliged to comply with the provisions and that it is obliged to ensure the implementation of freedom of the established company and the movement of capital. The novelty in this law is the introduction of a mandatory register of service providers that would be held at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the obligation for all to register the necessary data and references which should then be updated each year and thus make the offer of offers in this activity as transparent and safe as possible in order to combat hunters in a cloudy and grey economy. This bill also contains certain provisions that protect service providers and providers from unwitting customers, and further liberalises the price creation of the service provider. in the shortest lines, as it is a law that Croatia is obliged to pass in order to fully equalise its own legislation with the said directive on the provision of services in the EU, the HNS Club will support this law on behalf of the HNS Club I will wish you a pleasant evening and a good night. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26369	I thank you as much as I thank you for your rational consumption of time. I hope that happens with SDP and Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26370	Dear Vice-President, Deputy Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs Evo, as a colleague has previously said, needs to be adopted in an urgent procedure to comply with the EU legislation, which is particularly relevant to the commitments adopted under Chapter 3. Right of business creation and freedom to provide services. Also, since 2007 when this law was passed on the Croatian market, there has been a change in what has been the profession and the existing legal framework in this sense necessarily... to improve with the aim of enabling the equal legal position of all participants who apply it, while maintaining a high standard of professional education and ethical behaviour of real estate intermediaries. Now let me not list everything I have written myself I will briefly try to remember what my colleague had not said before, that the newspapers are the following, that the intermediaries are equating themselves with those from the EU, and the provision that prescribes the conditions of the area in which the activity is being carried out also might well draw attention to the fact that the amendments to the law will bring into order the register itself if we specifically have data that at this point in the Republic of Croatia there are 1126 real estate intermediaries registered on the basis of the law. There is also an agent's directory, a real estate brokerage where it has 1745, which tells us that this activity needs to be regulated. If I do not go further to the width, the obligations of the mediators to provide documentation to the HGK once a year showing that they continue to meet the legal requirements prescribed for carrying out their activities will positively reflect the update of the register of intermediaries and the records of real intermediaries in terms of improving and better showing the activities to be carried out. The fact is that this law certainly goes in the direction of consumer protection as a procuring officer and in the direction of protecting the recipients to which the regulated market will allow the development of this activity. And it is also important that at this point in time for the implementation of this law there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget and in the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government. As a result, the SDP club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real Estate Intermediation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26371	I thank you, too. We will also hear the views of the HDZ club and respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26372	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ma'am. The HDZ Club will also support amendments and additions to the Real Estate Mediation Act, with a final draft of the law. So as we have already heard, the law is in line with the acquis of the European Union and the important change of this law is that it enables companies engaged in real estate intervention in the Member States of the European Union to do the same work in the Republic of Croatia, clearly before that, with the registration of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. But what Mr Baranovic said earlier, these amendments to the law do not establish a register because it was established in 2008, but these amendments and additions to the law are imposed on agents or intermediaries in the provision of real estate to report to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce once a year whether they still have conditions to meet in order for this job to be done. It's good, and it's from the experience that we've heard from real estate brokers, that in this way they protect themselves from the incorrect property owners who hire them, who, at the time when they're looking for a buyer for a certain real estate, find another broker, do business with him, and the one who had the costs of publication, etc., remains without adequate compensation, so this law protects that mediator who is the original first mediator. And the other thing to mention is that there is no limit to the amount of compensation for the work done. But what is still to be mentioned is that the real estate market in Croatia was the largest, i.e. the biggest real estate turnover was made in 2008 at the level of billions and 510 million kuna, and since then, by 2011 it was 17, then 13%. It was only 2011, in a certain way, that the drop was stopped, and according to data for the first 6 months of this year, the 10% drop continued. As the real estate market plays a key role in macroeconomic developments, given the very large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia whose property is usually on the market, it is important that the government encourages the real estate market and the subsidies that the last government introduced last year. I am surprised that this Law on subsidisation and the state guarantee of residential loans is..., and this is the HDZ Club, through the amendment to the state budget, suggested that 5,000 unsold apartments in the Republic of Croatia could be sold with 120 million kuna, and then this real estate market, and then all other indicators that are being added to the sale of real estate, start a revolution in Croatia. So the government gave up on the project, we don't understand why, no clear explanation was given, some new project of POS plus was opened that should run the real estate market which I don't believe will happen since this model neither brought it back, nor has much interest to launch the real estate market through a new project POS plus. But that's another story, and I don't want to be in these late hours anymore. Anyway, the HDZ Club will back this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26373	Thank you very much. We still have to hear the individual debate of Damir Cain, but for that we will remain deprived because it is not there, so I am concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This seems to me to be the most appropriate time to interrupt tonight's session, and we will continue tomorrow at point 20. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Good night, everybody.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-12-0.u26374	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Real estate, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 231, the final draft of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, with 124 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 4 votes, have been abstentioned, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Real Estate Mediation Act has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue to work at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you. Let's get right on the agenda. It is now up to us - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, second reading, PZ No. 208. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the laws of 155 to 157 shall apply to the adoption of laws. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Defence Minister Predrag Matic. Here you go.
