ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7893	Your colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We'll start working. Today's day on the agenda is - Final draft law supplementing the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways Ltd., emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 84. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Deputy Minister, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7894	I would like to request a word briefly on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities to announce one decision of the board that is important. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As a board, not as a club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7895	It's not a practice, but I'll respect the board's intensity. Here's your colleague, Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your understanding. I know this is a decision that is on the margins of the Rules of Procedure, but thank you once again because it is one important decision of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities where the board member Mr. Veljko Kajtazi proposed that the committee be seen as regards the unfavorable events that occurred in Shkabrnja last week. He stressed that he expects a full report from the municipality's chief who has not yet been delivered to him. It has been pointed out that there has been a series of failures by the competent authorities and has proposed that the committee be made known at the next meeting on this case. Afterwards, individual board members asked that these events be strongly condemned on the board and that this should be transferred to the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and that is why I asked for the word here. In order to react strongly to the inadmissible expression of xenophobia and to prevent further escalating the situation. The Committee members also agreed with the proposal to request a full report which will objectively show what really happened to ensure that the basis of this report provides a reasoned debate on all aspects of the problem not only in Škabrnja but also in Lica, where, according to media writing, so-called. It's a crisis center to protect Lichans from the Roma. Not getting into that ethnic problem right now or slow if you want to in person just starting that headquarters, I think you have to worry about this High House. And finally, unanimously, members of the committee, I repeat, means all parties and oppositions and positions and oppositions and members of the national minorities supported the conclusion that the Committee Chairman, means that, on behalf of the Committee at the plenary session of the Assembly, expressed concern over xenophobic statements against Roma and the possibility of worsening the situation in Lica and other parts of Croatia if the Croatian Parliament and the competent institutions do not respond in due time and condemn such unloved events and do not take effective measures to prevent such similar situations from occurring. So, ultimate concern. With this conclusion, we're not looking for a debate right now, we're looking for a full report. That's what I have to say on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and what I want to say, express my personal and concern of the Committee as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7897	Thank you very much. For technical simplicity, or services have warned me, I will read again the agenda that is at the session today. Final draft law supplementing the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways, d.o.o., emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 84. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Whether the proposal's representative wishes to further explain the proposal, and I also welcome Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic. Do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7898	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on Railways created a legal framework for the restructuring process and structural changes on the railways with the aim of training it for competitiveness on the transport market, based on the principles of establishing a railway system on the principle of separation of railway infrastructure from rail transport and the liberalisation of the railway transport market. In order to facilitate its functional application as well as for the purpose of establishing a new organisation of the railway system adapted to the terms of the 2005 liberalisation transport market, the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways d.o.o. laying down the basic principles of division of the trading company HZ-Croatian Railways d.o.o. on independent business entities according to business areas. In practice, certain shortcomings have been identified during the business of new companies and it has been found that the division carried out does not fully follow the business logic of rounding up technological processes in production and transport services within transport companies. In order to enable the restructuring of the HH system, Article 1 must be complemented. Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways d.o.o. a new paragraph 3 establishing the legal basis for the implementation of the status changes of a company established by division under the new law and their further sharing, merger and accession in accordance with market needs, and in order to achieve a more flexible organisational structure within the railway system in accordance with the Law on Commercial Companies in order to implement a further programme of the railway restructuring process with a view to the full liberalisation of the railway market. The following is proposed to adopt this law by emergency procedure for the removal of major economic disturbances and the precondition for further restructuring of HHC adapted to the conditions and needs of the liberalised transport market in the area of rail services. This draft law will first create legal assumptions for a more flexible organisational structure within the HH system. Second, to enable the implementation of the status changes of the company with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and their sharing, merger and accession under the Law on Commercial Companies. Thirdly, to enable more rational business, or to reduce the costs of the carrier. Fourthly, the preconditions for the further process of restructuring of the railway system will finally be ensured. In order to implement this law, we do not need to provide for additional resources in the state budget, and nextly we propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure in order to remove further, larger economic disturbances or the creation of a precondition for further restructuring of the HH system adapted to the conditions and needs of the liberalised transport market in the area of rail services.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7899	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists - Labour parties Mr. Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Sir Deputy, dear colleagues. By proposing this law, we can say that it's the first time since this government is, that we're leaving democracy. This has gone so quietly, I guess none of you read it very carefully, because that's how it is, let's just say a little bit of rope, in a narrow area, none of you I suppose have read this text very carefully, which is proposed, and if you read it then it says that the future Government of the Republic of Croatia takes over the power of the Parliament. Isn't that the first form of abolishing democracy? Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia definitely knows the ratio of power in this House, since the Government of the Republic of Croatia knows that it can suggest that at this moment it is dark and that it will pass in this House, I have the impression that the dark has been slightly overrun over Croatia if something like this passes. Because of the waiting with this kind of power relationship, with this large majority in the Assembly when it is known that it can go through anything, which is why it insists that the government makes its own decision to change its status within the HH, but not only within HH, which means that it can sell parts of HH without consulting the Parliament without consulting the public, without the media being notified in advance, why? Does that mean there's a suspicion of fair intentions? If someone has any honest intentions, they want to do something better, which is why, at least my thinking is like that, and I believe that most of you will agree to let him hear as many different opinions as possible. A sense of opinion and profession, a sense of public opinion, a sense of the end and the media will create something, a picture of it. So let's be honest, and this House I suppose you'd have something to say about it. So why do we now agree that the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides on our behalf, it is incomprehensible to me. The problem of restructuring the Croatian Railways is definitely there and it is undeniable, I think that all the members of the Committee agree on this, that restructuring is necessary to make it, and now it is only a question of what does restructuring mean? Practice in Croatia means restructuring involves mass layoff. Unfortunately, I don't know any other example, if there are any positive examples, I don't attribute it to this government or to that government, the biggest problem is that there is systematic over thirty years of non-investment in the Croatian Railways system, so it can't be said that now someone has been guilty since yesterday or before yesterday, but that the failures were made both during the past government and in the period of those previous governments and so even during the coalition government, when it comes to the Croatian Railways system, it definitely stands. This morning I went on purpose to check, to see the next parameter for the next timetable, so let's say the railway that the coalition government was pushing in time, the low-level figure has nine, nine limited speeds on the move from Ogulin, i.e. from Ostari to Split, twenty kilometers an hour. I didn't count the others at all, they don't matter in this story, and that's a newly renovated railway for Croatian occasions. If there are nine speed limits at 20 kilometers an hour, who can be competitive with these operators of ours who are trafficking those tracks? Unfortunately, you can't even theoretically be competitive, because it's like having one of us different, we're different physical devices, like making one of us run with Ben Johnson, but then just in case he's still loading a bag of cement on our backs, so now let's be competitive and run that race and expect us to win that race, that's impossible. The same situation is with our operators, HZ-cargo and HZ-passmen who have been put in a situation that under no circumstances can survive on this market. It will survive part of the passenger transport because, not because it is really productive, but because it is, for example, part of the city of Zagreb, a suburban transport that is covered and that we will have to have open directions, which are interesting to Europe, and not to us. There are colleagues here who know what I'm talking about because they've been with me on round tables and on public stands, so they know that citizens all over Beautiful are doomed to give up our railway transport, so we can ask the citizens of Daruvar, Pakrac, Lipik, Kostajnica, Hrvatska Dubice, Petrinje, Gline, Topusko, Najsica, Plekernica, etc. and all these citizens either no longer have rail transport, or they will soon be left without it. HZ Cargo for HZ Cargo Minister Linic here said that yesterday or last time on the previous board, Assistant Minister Krizmanic said that unless I can survive on the market that there is no easy reason to save them. So can anyone survive on the market if we tell him 40 hours in prison and he has to transport goods, who's so crazy that he keeps the goods in cars and waits for the grace of God when that goods will be transported? Is there anyone who can compete if he can translate three trains a day? On a certain track, for example, a remonting of the railways on Novska-Dugo Selo, the alternative direction will be Novska-Sunja. The daily passage power of that railroad is three trains. Nothing was done, the situation on that stock is worse than it was after the Storm. Don't forget that before the storm itself the trains were driving, both but they were driving, after the Storm we systematically let it go down and now the situation on those tracks is worse than it was right after the Storm. We also have examples of new investments where European funds are included, so let's say on the Vinkovci section towards the border or the Djeletovci station, the Jankovci train roads have been abolished because it is a restructuring project, the introduction of new tenologies, so on. A telecommand for those who possibly know something about it, and now something's happening to us that's back to the 19th century. Since these devices fall off every little bit, because of the performers, we were warned that the view of the road crossings could be up to a maximum of 10 km away, we have these road crossings every day, so in 15 days we have 98 malfunctions. It's 98 times a half-hour stop when road drivers lose their nerve, go around their mustaches, ramps, endanger road and rail traffic, endanger their lives. We're waiting for a mechanic who comes from Vinkovci on condition that he's there if he's not in some other malfunction that takes at least half an hour to get here. He's coming in there to activate one key, which means that if we kept that personnel malfunction going less than a minute. We now have a regular occurrence in 15 days almost 100 times, half an hour of standing, normal nerve loss in road drivers because they don't have to and don't know what the technological process is and what's really going on. Safety and road and rail transport are at risk but lives are also at risk. Obviously, there's no understanding. It doesn't matter to anyone. But what's quite often in everyone's mind is that there are European directions and we are doing railroads that will be part of the trans-European network or the former expression part of the corridor. The famous 10th corridor that was in reality the 10th corridor is now part of the trans-European network currently has zero tons of cargo on it. These are stories for small children that we have opportunities there, these are stories simply for day-to-day political purposes. It is true to you that it is only an alternative direction for Hungary. In case there is a major delay through Hungary transit through Hungary, in which case the burden will be moved on this track. But that's a probability once a year. We'll have that direction but at the same time for the passenger trains, but at the same time we don't have our own cars and we absolutely don't invest anything on that matter. Minister Cacic replied on the first current hour that there will be investments in both Končar and Gredelj and that Končar and Gredelj will also work on our famous low floor trains and that it is only a matter of days when the realization of this will take place. However, at least according to my information, there is nothing for a day of it, it has been counted on by European funds, which is still impossible. And now we have a situation that the Federation of BiH Railways that bought a low-level train and will drive our railroad, will drive their train and we will stay on watch. The BiH railways do not insult anyone but we all know that in the former state, Croatia has been far more advanced than most republics. And now these same BiH Railways have bought the Talgo trains of Spain that will also drive our tracks. And these are their trains, they're not our trains. At the same time we have a few more railways in Croatia, we have some industries that need our railways, for our trains but they can't drive it for years, so let's say the Guard has to drive through Slovenia even though the company is Croatian and only a few kilometers of track is needed to train in order for the company to be able to drive through Croatia, but it is obviously not in anyone's interest. and apparently everything is subordinated to other interests. I'm looking at colleagues from Slavonia upstairs, so I'm guessing they've already heard the information that is seriously considering closing the Virovitica-Osjek railroad. I don't think any of you know better than you do what it means in case there's any closure of that railroad when the sugar campaign starts, when all the local roads are not overloaded, they're destroyed. Next year we can assume that transport will be organised by road vehicles, and those behind that can simply forget everything because this will be too expensive. So it is also a consequence of breeders or those who are involved in the cultivation of sugar tails. But that's just one example. The watch was one, actually sugar tail and Slavonia is another example. The story of the stripes from Banova Jaruga, via Daruvar, Lipik to the other side of Pleternica, Požega, Našice also known. The Sisak-Petrinja-Glin track I believe most of them forgot that it existed. The problem of restructuring definitely exists, but is the reason for the restructuring of the Croatian Railways to transfer its powers to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For what? Why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia not trust this Parliament, its majority here? Why does he transfer all his powers to himself? Obviously, there is a basis for doubt, and no one can forbid us to suspect, but no one can explain with enough quality arguments why it's done. As far as I can remember, everyone's mouth is always full of democracy and everyone's always talking about having a public debate. Even yesterday we had a story about a public debate and a referendum on another law, and here we transfer everything to determine within a few people and to be all in peace and quiet and not God to disturb the public with painful decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7901	Thank you. We have two corrections. The first to correct an incorrect quote came from representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct my colleague Novak's claim that we're not reading this law properly, and then he says something that doesn't say in this law. So, it is not about the government doing status changes but will give consent if there will be status changes within the Croatian railway, and it is completely incorrect and false for the government to sell parts of the Croatian railway. Namely, the Law on the Conversion and Privatisation of Social Enterprises has left out some of the companies which are of particular national interest, including the Croatian Railways and they can be privatised or sold only by special laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7903	Thank you. We have another correction to the incorrect assumption. Representative Hajdukovic Domagoj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7904	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague I'd like to correct your claim that this is a twilight of democracy or an attack on democracy, and I don't know exactly how you expressed yourself anymore. Namely, then, should all of Croatia sit in this House and make decisions. I would suggest that you consult a little political literature, which is a representative democracy because we are representatives of voters here, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and then the government is also a representative of us or citizens indirectly and therefore I ask you to inform yourself before you make such claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7905	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Agent Damir Cain, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7906	Your Honor, Vice President, Deputy Secretary of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, Mr. Mladen Novak said this law is leaving democracy. I don't know, I don't think I would agree, I think that the intervention of Dragica Zgrebec was absolutely correct and absolutely correct, although I could hope that democracy will fully return to Croatia when MPs are elected directly. Then there will be no one above the Parliament but the Constitution and the dear God, but until then the Parliament will decide the opportunities for the Croatian Railways. What I am far more concerned about than a correct law being proposed today is that, for example, without a public tender in HEP, public procurement as we read in some media outlets of as many as 3 billion kuna. Now there's one question about subsuppressing the executive over the representative. The essence of this law, as we have all had the opportunity to read, is seen here on page 1 and then said, and what Mr Antušić was talking about, means we have the transformation of the current organisational structures of the Croatian Railways d.o.o. on private, independent activities of railway infrastructure, rail transport, passenger transport, freight transport, train tow and roof organisation HZ Holding d.o.o. and prescribed their structure in new legal and business entities. These legal entities were created by the division of the Croatian Railways, i.e. the newly created companies, became legal followers of companies in relation to the property acquired. In practice, certain shortcomings have also occurred during the business of new companies and it has been found that the division carried out does not fully monitor the business logic of rounding technological processes, etc. But when we talk about these railroads, he said something about Mr. Novak, about the opportunities being around. The losses for last year or last year somewhere around 20 million kunas are actually 18.9 million kuna. Someone will say it's little, it's nothing, but on the other hand we should keep in mind that the subsidies from the state budget to the railways were going at 1 billion 143 million kuna. The organisation of the system is absolutely nothing, the system employs 13281 workers, at least that's how it was in 2010. From the transport of some 3.5 billion kuna as their business income from transport means passengers earn 510 million kuna, from the transport of cargo 718 million kuna. And now that we draw this line, you can see that one of these laws is necessary and that it is really simply the way Mr. Komadin once expressed it so that the system can function without even 5,000 people. Clearly, no one can think or think to fire 5,000 people. It is clear that people should be absolutely taken care of, but if we want to keep them here I agree with Mr. Novak, the Railways will have to invest absolutely. I constantly point out the example of the "Istrian railways", the Istrian railways during Austria-Hungarian and today. The Vienna Parliament makes 22.4.1973. decision on the construction of the Divac-Pula railway. This same railroad in the length of 122.3 km plus the Kamfanar-Rovinj branch 21 km, so that's 143.3 km open on 20.9.1876. So the construction of 143.3 km lasted during Austria-Hungarian 3.5 years. Okay, maybe there weren't supposed to be any permits, but it had to be designed, it had to be pitched. The property-legal jobs were settled neatly then, no trace left behind, and we are not able to do any project documentation at three years today, no matter what project documentation, or, let's say, with conservatives. The only exception in Croatia since 1990. The year was construction and this should be recognised by the roads from Zagreb to Split. I am often told by former Uljanika director Mr. Radolovic that from the moment the decision was made to build a pulse arsenal or while the first warship was released into the sea, it was only a year and a half ago. So it was done then, and today look at how much you need documents, how much time it takes, how much administrations to go through so that any decision in this country can be made or made. Today they are on the other side, and that is why I took part in this debate of the Istrian railways amputated, so I will call them from the Croatian railways. And that's how it's gonna be until the moment this country builds a train tunnel through Učka. I keep pointing out Istria is spiritually integrated into the national Corps during NOB, we are territorially integrated in full in '47. ................................................................................... After major international conferences in Paris, or London. I often think that it was, don't catch me by the word of the 1980s or the 80s when the Učka road tunnel was built, and the infrastructure entirely of Istria will be integrated into this Croatian infrastructure Corps when a train tunnel is built through Učka. I know that the state has no money today, but if we want to erase the isolation of these Croatian railways in Istria, but not only in Istria but in general Croatian railways from that direction that leads across Trieste, northern Italy, southern France and Spain, then it is simply necessary to build that tunnel. But now let's let go of these Austro-Hungarian stories or that austro-Hungarian reality, let's let Uck's tunnel go and stuff. But if there is no infrastructure of the Croatian Railways, how will we preserve the people who work on these railways? If some stripes like Istrian or what I know before Novak mentioned the Virovitica railroad, I don't know which city, etc. They traffic in one day one, two or maybe three trains. What does restructuring actually mean? The railways administration has predicted the layoff of some 650 employees during the former government. Today, crisis stations are being formed to defend the railways or to defend these companies and trade unions, and you can't quite fire them. They mention a number of 1200 workers, etc. But now what's the situation on those railroads except for what's in it and that's what it's supposed to say there's about 120 unionists with management contracts and they're even with managers in or on the railroad. When we look at these financial results and investments then we see that on the basis of revenues from transport and income, I quote from the state budget and other revenues from 2010, the eleventh is planning total revenues of 3 billion 530 million kuna. Costs of three billion and 530.4 million kuna. I said before the state budget gets a billion and a few million kunas. This trend in revenue and expenditure would allow a business with a profit of $400,000 compared to the 2010 results when a loss of 18.9 million kuna was recorded. That's certainly a positive step. In passenger transport, revenue should amount to 390 million kuna. Other revenues from passenger transport 120 million kuna. In total, that makes up 510 million kuna, I said 718 million kunas from freight transport, etc. etc. So it's about the number of employees and the like. It is certainly one thing that this situation with our railways is more than serious, that the Croatian Railways system is actually one lag behind on one level how to express myself early in the last century. We have long been talking about the lowline track, but there is no renewal of the existing, and the condition of that low-level railway is certainly regulation of relations or reconstruction I would say the ports of Rijeka. And go back to Istria. The Italians were abolished, rejected, destroyed by the Italians. It doesn't matter what the Austrians built in 1902. It was abolished because of incomes that didn't come true as they imagined. Later, they tried to drive or transport the railway to Ethiopia, so the ships were submerged somewhere in the Mediterranean Sea. It doesn't matter now. Yugoslavia has abolished the railway, the Austrian-Hungarian railway Kanfanar – Rovinj, but they have built the Lupoglav – Bršica railway, which is hardly traffic-free today, and after the independence of the Republic of Croatia in 1991, the Istrian railways are separated from the Slovenian railway system. Imagine Slovenian railways controlled the Istrian railways and clearly integrated into these national railway systems. Now in Istria somewhere it's going to be 10, 11 months should go building Ucka tunnel, so roadside. I'd like him to leave the railroad. Of course I don't expect it this year. It's an investment of about $100 million, but I'm afraid it won't come to life so soon. We will clearly support this Law and only two sentences to say about the Word. When did Rijeka get her first two stripes? It was 1873. So the river was controlled by Hungarians, so Budapest encouraged Rijeka as its port, but Vienna, whose main port was Trscan port, did not want to lose the benefits of the Rijeka port. And that same year it opens the railroad in 1873 or connects the railway from Pivka to Rijeka. And that railroad was built in only four years. So, if Rijeka wants to restore its old fame, industrial, traffic, maritime we must think about building a tunnel, train tunnel Učka - Ćicicarija, whatever that merger will be called through Slovenian Crassus from about 15 km to the Trstian railways. Unfortunately, we with Slovenians are not able to arrange for a 20-metre bridge to be paved on the canal of St. Ororica or Dragonji, let alone 15 km of railways agree, align through Slovenian Krass, and since the merger of the Trieste River, there will be nothing so soon. But no matter what, he shouldn't be afraid of this law suspending democracy. And I think as long as this Parliament is called on, there is no doubt that anyone will play with the Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7907	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7908	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways d.o.o. It was adopted by an emergency procedure literally the last hours of the autumn session in 2005. The representatives of the SDP at the time pointed out the harmfulness of such adoption of this law because, in such a way, and especially because the Law on Railways was amended in the meantime, which abolished one of the safe sources of investment in the Croatian railways, namely one of those sources was then planned to compensate for fuel prices. It is our position even then and now that the restructuring of Croatian railways cannot be successful without modernising rail transport. In this way, the investment plan launched in the mandate of the previous government was cut off. The then, and future governments, did not see the necessity of the railway in the future for energy and environmental reasons, especially when it comes to freight transport, and in Croatia this is also a link with port transport and maritime transport of railways has great significance today, and in the future, especially since Europe plans to bring freight road traffic only to local traffic. Just a month before the adoption of the Law on the division of the Croatian Railways, and given the politics of the then government towards the railway, the SDP club also submitted an interpretation of the government's work for stopping the development of Croatian railways. We pointed to measures taken during the 2000 period. - 2003 which improved business as seen in the business reports for that year and the long-term investment and business plan already adopted. Already, the rail system was normally in line with EU legislation and should have gone into modernisation, which all assumptions existed. But it happened exactly the opposite. The new management and supervisory structure in HZ rejected the already adopted development programme as an unrealistic and expensive option, although there was the possibility of using grants from European funds, as well as one of the safe sources for financing. Investments in the Croatian Railways in the coming period only reduced to the contracted purchases of new freight wagons that were contracted in 2003. The non-investment resulted in an increase in maintenance costs already at the time of the old rolling stock, a reduction in the number of vehicles in the traffic that only in the coming years was further reduced, passenger and goods transport costs increased, we became uncompetitive for freight transport, but they grew precisely because of this number of employees. But the greater damage came to the community because the state budget was making more and more money to increase costs, and qualitative and quantitative rail transport has steadily dropped. This was also seen by the State audit when it audited HH’s operations, warning that the budget subsidies were not used to modernise investment but that even part of these funds had to be compensated, so those basic operating costs could not be covered by business revenues. The damage to the feeling and to the Adriatic ports because they do not have adequate traffic support. And in the next six years, so after 2005, the lack of investment meant only further decline of HZ. In the meantime, besides financial losses, inadequate maintenance is also reflected in the safety of rail transport, and several serious train accidents have recently occurred. A growing number of passengers often cannot reach their destination by rail, but a combination of rail and road transport which prevents passengers from using the railway. The Law on the division of the Croatian railway company transformed Croatian railways into independent activities, transport infrastructure, train towing and Holding as a roof organisation. It was shown in that time, so from 2005 to today, that the business logic of rail transport is looking for a different organisation and rounding of technology units because the current organisation is leading to business and financial problems, and this will continue to increase business costs in the future. Croatia's railway must urgently start a modernisation and restructuring programme because Croatia as a member of the EU on a liberalised market is hardly able to maintain rail transport on domestic railways with this kind of Croatian railway. Therefore, the SDP club will accept the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7909	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7910	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. For the start of the HNS club will support this law, and I'll explain something shorter why. Listening to the debate and previous exhibitors, it is the impression that all the problems of the Croatian Railways are at some point the impression that all the problems of the Croatian Railways were created around Christmas last year and are not the product of unfortunate circumstances, war events, political wrong decisions, poor management procedures and decisions in the past 20 years as if they were not the product and subjective and objective circumstances burdened by the Croatian railways and the management of them. I will not enter into controversy over the legal issues that have been raised because I am not a lawyer, but in any case what can be seen in these discussions is also some kind of fear and fear of some intentions related to Croatian railways. The opinion of the CNS, and my personal opinion that such intentions cannot be serious, cannot be the subject of unserious debates, simply because Croatian politics, the Croatian government is not in a position to play with the intentions of Croatian railways. Croatian railways are assigned to every political set and every government, as well as to this one simply because of its role in the passenger transport system, and even more so in the freight transport system. Without the secured functioning of the Croatian Railways is very certain over a short period of time, it would cost the entire economy or remains of the remains of the Croatian economy, which today this government, and also the future governments will have to rely on their feet and try to return to breathing with their lungs. Why do I say that? A series of life examples, one of them is also one of the few companies that remains on their feet, which operates with profit, serves an extremely important industry in Croatia, which is Petrochemy Kutina which is also the basis for Croatian agrarian. All imports of phosphate come through the Sibenik port, all exports of artificial fertilisers go through the Sibenik port and the real truth about Croatian railways is in the next fact that I am watching from the balcony of my house because as a boy I spent hours watching merchant ships and port cranes, I do it sometimes today and I notice what the real truth about HZ is. Sibenik docks, regardless of what some investments in the modernisation of the Sibenik port are yet to follow, are faster than the Croatian Railways. When the ship gets here, more than twenty thousand tons of speed cranes work while there's artificial manure to board. When the lifts are in place somewhere on the second or third reading, there's a train waiting. And that's what the measure of things of this law is. Competitiveness, efficiency, profitability are imperatives that politics must put ahead of it when considering the future of Croatian Railways in the long term. Today, it must make moves that the Croatian railways should leave alive, both for the sake of the Croatian economy, national interests and for the social sensitivity and responsibility of 13 and a half thousand employees in the system. What is important to say also, the Croatian Railways system only withdrew four billion and two hundred million state incentives between 2002 and 2009. It's a huge number, but I repeat, without railways, we can't. The existing changes in the functioning of the Croatian Railways, which occurred after the adoption of the law in 2005, proved inadequate even in trade unions, reports from round tables carried out by the profession suggest the need to restructure Croatian railways, separate individual components, attaching to other components, more flexible operations within the system. This law creates assumptions for the necessary reforms in HZ. This law opens up the possibility for the Government to implement the necessary measures. After four months of sea, the government takes its existence seriously when it comes to Croatian railways for the overall future of the Croatian economy. For these reasons, having confidence in the government, which is a product of democracy, colleagues, parliamentary elections in which citizens have made it clear to whom they trust to draw their moves, sometimes painfully, is the result of this House calling for trust and asking questions of trust to the Government in the context of the Croatian Railways, I think it is completely deplaced. I stress once again, the HNS will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7911	Thank you, Mr. Representative Baranovic. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB Club. A correction, yes, sorry, correction Mr. Representative Mladen Novak, excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7912	Thank you very much. At one point, counterpart Baranovic said that until profitability reached, he listed some other terms, but until there was profitability. A colleague has no profitable railways anywhere, so definitely neither Croatian railways will ever be profitable, and apropos investments are purely German railways per day, i.e. at the annual level of 300 euros per capita separates the German state for these railways. This would be in the parity to, say, invest the Croatian state 4.5 billion at the annual level of kuna in Croatian railways, and you know that we are far from it. That is considering the parity of gross national income our and theirs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7913	Thank you very much. Here comes Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, who now has a word on behalf of the HDSSB Club. So the correction to the inaccuracy of counterpart Novak is welcome not to lose his right. Here you go. It's all right. Here you go, Mr. Representative, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7914	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament and for this gesture of goodwill, so that I do not lose the right word. In surgery and medicine there are specialists, but there are no specialists for the left eye and for the right eye, for the left kidney and the right kidney, for the towing of passenger trains and for the towing of freight trains, towing like a tow. The engineers work one shift on the passenger, and the other shift schedules it on the freight train tow. Here in the inscriptions that we're following this bill is exactly what we're talking about, dividing trains on passenger and freight transport. What has been done in this Croatian country for 20 years despite all the support received by Veznica, which is worth billions and billions of kunas and depending on the year to year that has been done? Where did those money go? The CIT rail was built about 250 km of the railroad was shut down. You want me to pick it up? The Carlovac-Glina-Sisak railway or vice versa, the Novska-Jasenovac-Sunja-Sisak railway is in worse shape than it was after the Storm, the Unska railway which was partly passing through Croatia so Martin Brod-Knin does not function or drive and was electrified. I remember the good days, but it's not from Kulin Ban when Marian Express was driving Split-Zagreb the Unskog in 4.5 hours. I remember the days when there was some kind of Sava Express leaving Zagreb at 5am and was in Belgrade at 9. Now the train between Zagreb and Slavonski Brod drives at least 3 hours. From Novska to Belgrade, I would say, thanks to that policy by Shessel, it will be Serbia to Novska, and then from Belgrade to Novska, two colossiums and from Novska, one arm has been distributed across Dugi Sela for Zagreb, and another one via Sunja and Sisak again for Zagreb as equivalent to the two-track line Belgrade-Novska. The Kalmeta railway abolished the Pleternica-Ours railway, with a promise so unofficially in the hallway that it would be in a year, two days after the reconstruction was carried out not to restructure but to reconstruct the train again. No, it doesn't look like it'll ever happen while there's politics like this, while there's a policy of killing the railroad in Croatia. To what benefit? On whose behalf? Who's behind all this and our government's intentions? Not to repeat a hundred times said Chancellor Bismarck's sentence that the state is as strong as its railroad. Every village in Germany today is connected even though it has modern road carriers and buses and everything else and river transport, every village in Germany is connected to the railway. It connects to a larger location a train node and then to the center of the railroad, and then you go with those super modern fast trains called ICE or what they're called. That's how it's all in France. Only Croatia has an unsatisfactory desire to destroy its railroad. Or to remain just a direction that fits someone's dictation on the outside. And here we see the loss of our pride, our honor and our obedience as the vassal of Queen Mark towards the Turks. There are some other Turks here. Yes, I agree with it to be a quick connection between Zagreb-Rjeka, clearly that then from Budapest can be quickly and easily reached by Rijeka and employed by Rijeka's port facilities. The 10th Corridor of Zagreb towards Vinkovci, Tovarnik as the last Croatian railway station further east towards Šid, Ruma, Sremska Mitrovica, Belgrade, not to list all the stations that exist now, and then from Belgrade to the south towards Athens or towards Sofia where it is shared with Nis or not important. Yeah, if he used to drive the Orient Express Paris-Instambul, there's no way he's coming back today. Croatia has become Europe's railway appendix. And here today, like these days, is trying to get the powers of sharing, confiscation when it comes to railways to the power and authority of the government of the Republic of Croatia without the question of the Parliament. We give them binco paper to do with the railroad whatever they want. The introduction is the sale and sale of Croatian railways, primarily cargo will go to Dobos. This year, Croatia's insurance says, the Croatian Post Bank. And in spite of all the gatherings here, no one is saying that cigarettes have been collected, neither does those journalists, nor does the media say that cigarettes have collected, electricity, gas, water, public transport. They asked one pensioner if he agreed that the price of the train ticket was now more expensive than before, so when he had to come from the village to the city that his train ticket was more expensive for the bus. He said yes, I agree. Well, those are the changes we've been looking for, and we've fought it in our election. It should be even more expensive because the citizens wanted it so they chose, they wanted it, so that was the plan. That's a great answer. But we know well that with this I would say the bad strategic decisions of the Croatian government, the state and the ministry regarding the railways were also failures on the railway. Here's the latest case one of the directors of one of them I'd say in that former form of ours is going to Las Vegas for a study trip to study the Nevada railways, or she's gone as Sanader went to Verona in connection with Pliva to get information from Croatian Railways to another foreign company. There are a lot of information companies in the world who would like to take HZ's information. Should I dial or keep my mouth shut so we can see what it's gonna be, wait a little while to wait? How many managers in the Croatian railways who have paid far more than the parliamentary representatives and members of the government. And what are they doing? They've got cash registers for or as they're called automatic cashiers that don't work today, they're standing in a warehouse. They got a retarded retard, so the tilt trains became rolling trains and what they didn't get without a public tender or with a public tender, as it is now approved that HEP has the possibility of procurement without a public competition. Look, I ask you how we have developed democracy that HEP can and without public procurement obtain, make purchases for such a large system as HEP, and it is connected closely with railways. 6 years ago, in 14.6.2006, the Croatian Government divided the Croatian Railways on a proposal, divided the HZ which was then unique. With the creation of elaborats from the privileged company Audit, the names "Audit", and this elaborate was called a new system for new quality. In six years, did we get a new quality, we didn't. And here's the other day on the track, the car destroyed three miles of concrete thresholds. The one in the Gorski kotar, and it's secret what happened and how he went down in front of the tunnel, the wall was supported, and he got killed by the engineer, and it's been hidden for more than a year, which is what caused it. That death train with that retard before Split, Solin, where is it, where seven people ended up mortally. Tire trains are having a little bit of a fire. Do you know that these trains start every 70 miles, that there's a fire on them? Who got that? Managers who pay 40 grand kuna or someone else under the influence of the Minister and the Ministry of All and Everything, traffic, connections, seas, I don't know what? We've destroyed the railroad, divided and subtracted, and we can't figure out that the railroads need to be multiplied and collected. These are two other accounting operations that can never occur to us, which always result in positive, so addition and multiplication, unlike sharing and subtracting, and we are doing it with the Croatian Railways. Railway transport is known to be the cheapest means of transport after river or water transport, but that is not the case with us. But there's a so-called. Road lobbys that tend to take over even though they're far more expensive. And this government has brought in and this transport price has been accumulated due to fuel prices, oil prices, even though the world's oil price is falling, we are growing. We're all paradoxical. And that's what our citizens are taking because they wanted to change, but it's going to cost them change. Slavonski Brod, railway hub. What is it today? One passing train station like a lyric caldrum or I don't know what. Although many people from the Bosnian ship, so from Bosnia, from Bosnia and Herzegovina, come to the train station, so it's an international station, to buy a ticket to go to Munich or west, it's the closest thing to them. The track for the Bosnian ship has been abolished in this country although there is a refinery now poisoning Slavonski Brod, but it certainly has derivatives that could be driven from the Bosnian Ship across the bridge into Slavonski Brod and beyond what they want. That's off. The industrial track for the business zone in Slavonski Brod does not work either. The centre was moved to Vinkovce by the will of the former political majority in this Croatian Parliament because the Vinkovci lobby in this Parliament and government was stronger than Slavonski Brod. And so it's completely unsatisfactory to do in this country, so no matter what, the Mermaid-Daruvar railroad, the Plepernica-Pozega railroad is lifted. These stripes have brought the war out, and they say the suspension of the Osijek-Virovica railway is being considered. So imagine that Osijek has only a rail direction towards Djakov, and we know what the railroad is, it is also reconstructed. And you know what this railroad is like? Well, to the Vrpolje, then he'll be staying at Vrpolje and I don't know. There's no U.N. stripes. You can drive on some train to Volinje, is that, as it is called, the last stop before the bridge across the Una in the Municipality of Dvor after the Kostajnica, Croatia Kostajnica, so that I do not forget, that I will not get the correction of the incorrect quote. So, this law says here in the legal not proposal but actually enables the division of HZ-Vuča trains, clearly in terms of further actions that will follow, which is the sale and fragmentation of Croatian railways, fragmentation, destruction and sale. There used to be talk about shipyards and banks. Banks are not used to restructure but to capitalise. The capitalisation was something different from restructuring, it was investing money in banks, investing in Croatian taxpayers' money to sell for cheap money to foreigners. And today, banks rock this state of Croatia, the commercial bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7915	Mr. Representative, it's time for the debate. Yes, it is, so please, if you can finish. [[Intruding Grubisic: Well, it's not.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7916	Here's one, two sentences. Thank you for your warning. So, this proposal by which the Croatian Assembly of 13000 employees hand in hand to mercy and mercy, I will not talk about what they are, whether there are premeditations and what premeditations with the Railway by the Government, the HDSB club cannot agree for all of these reasons I have said here and for all future marifetteluks and manipulations that are done to harm Croatian railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7917	Thank you very much. What kind of government would it be if you went with premeditation with any bill of law. It's a parliamentary debate that then says whether it was premeditated or not, but I know it wasn't. I'd like to inform you that it is time to report a 10-minute debate, so individual debate at 10.41. I give my word to Mrs. Representatives, dear Zgrebec, for correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7918	Again, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that there is a privatisation or sale of parts under this law or... The entire Croatian railways. [[You don't understand.]] This law adds only a new paragraph to this law that it is possible to set up a different organisation than that defined in Article 1 which is the management, maintenance, construction and transport of passengers, freight and tow trains and the maintenance decision established by the Government. Well, pal, that's exactly what you're saying there's no doctor for the left and right kidneys but that this irrational organization can be set up more rationally in some technology segments. And the government will only give consent to the fact that Croatian railways will be more logically divided into technological units.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7919	Mr. Representative, just a minute. I'm warning everyone when I see it lifts up a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I know you'll use it to say something, so I'm warning you if you won't be on the trail of Article 209 that I won't give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7920	Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7921	No, it's not enough. You must now say which article specifically. Article 209 is the basis to say whether it is Article 214, 215 or another. Please be precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7922	This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7923	Yeah, he's the basis to say which article of the Rules of Procedure was second-injured. That's what I warned you about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7924	I know, Mr. President, that we have not yet adopted the new Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that I have the right to appeal to Article 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7925	Yeah, it was a bad practice that I, as chairman, keep interrupting. No, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7926	I've never led the only one to quote...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7927	I have to read to you, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7928	All right, all right. Read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7929	I'll tell you now. I'm asking you nicely. Therefore, Article 209(1) is replaced by the following: A representative who wishes to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure shall be given the floor as soon as this request has been made. That's what you got. The speaker’s speech cannot last longer than one minute, and the representative must immediately state the article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury he is referring, and this is not Article 209. [[Intruder Grubisic: Good.]] The president is obliged to give an explanation after the complaint has been made. How am I going to explain when you say abstract article 209? For what? You must say, for it goes on to tell you in article 214. In particular, the MP gives a warning, for example, if he does not hold to the topic he is talking about in his speech, etc. So these are specific things that you simply have to have, and in 209 is not enough because you do not know, you have to say another provision based on Article 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7930	Here is Mr. President exactly what you yourself stated in article 214. I wasn't talking about, so my colleague Zgrebec's instructions are something that I didn't say at all, or I assumed he would, and the law doesn't say at all what way it would be shared, nor did I talk about it at all. Therefore, the 214th article, I insist then warn Mrs. Zgrebec to speak if she already corrects what I said wrongly and she did not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7931	I understood exactly the other way around. But good. That's it. It's this one-sided communication which, unfortunately, turns itself over a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure in this way in a kind of two-way way. Well, we're making things clear for future work. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. What? ... Mr. Representative Josip Boric on behalf of the HDZ Club, and we have as many as I see six individual discussions or more, so I believe we will end up somewhere by 12. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Nine, nine individuals. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7932	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will be against this Act supplementing the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways for several reasons. The first is certainly the one that we keep repeating, and that is that all the laws we have discussed so far are almost 100% going according to an emergency procedure. We believe that this law too needed to be discussed in a broader debate so that we could have concrete and clean information, so that there would be nothing left in the air. Another important fact is that we, as Parliament's representatives, are buried with the e-mails of union leaders, unional centralists, which clearly speaks of that there is no and does not work the Economic Social Council, that there is no communication between unions and governments, and that simply these leaders are asking us parliamentary representatives to be their voice here on the outside. And thirdly, I think it may be the most important, and this law refers to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already made the necessary decisions from 2006 on the restructuring of the Croatian Railways, which it had as an obligation and in this way after the Parliament took it into account in terms of control through its law, the Government is simply trying to return again in the same way and offer some obvious new solutions. But then I say the Parliament may be beyond all that. I'll try to say why we're against it and against the way it's been discussed here, and all the time it's been said that nothing's been right in the past 20 years, i.e. that everything in this country begins with every new government, every new government. We have a chance to listen to it here in the past few months. Nothing was good and nothing was done. I claim that there is no history of everything and so is the history of Croatian railways who have gained their legality, their personality and their activity for decades, and certainly through the new state, through the Republic of Croatia have received a new owner and thus function over the past 20 years. It's '98. It was clear that the system with more than 20,000 employees then, almost 23,000 employees should go into restructuring. And then the goals of organisational restructuring were clearly set. It is up to us to accompany them as parliamentary representatives, and it is certainly up to the government as the owner to achieve these goals. And each government so far has tried to do everything it could safely within its own powers and capabilities. The first objective was to increase business efficiency. The second objective is transparency in the use of budgetary resources. The third objective is to increase the competitiveness of rail transport. And the fourth to adapt the railway to the conditions of the liberalised transport market. And if we're looking at it today, I think we've all worked on it for the past twenty years, and especially for the last 10 years, on those goals. It all started with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2001 when the government made certain commitments through the agreement and had to adapt its legislation. In 2003, the Law on Railways was adopted to achieve its basic principle of forming a rail system on the principle of separation of railway infrastructure from rail transport, and the liberalisation of the railway transport market. And it was supposed to start in 2006. Is it started? ... because in the meantime, we also heard the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways in 2005 which then prescribed the division of HZ to four companies with the exception of railway infrastructure as a public good in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the legal acquis of the European Union, the law transforms the then organisational structure of HH into 4 independent companies with limited liability of private activities. The first company to manage, maintain and build railway infrastructure, the second company to deal with passenger transport, the third company to deal with freight and the fourth company tow trains. Finally, the fifth roof HZ Holding that must manage the ownership stakes of newly founded companies, and is the sole owner of the Republic of Croatia. The law prescribes a new structure and new legal and business entities. After companies were registered in the Commercial Court, it became clear that there are new companies HZ Infrastructure, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Cargo and HZ Trains Wolf together with HZ Holding. This means that in the 7th month of 2006, it ended its obligation under the government law of the Republic of Croatia regarding the organisational restructuring of HH. We today have the meaning of a society that, in its core capital, means HZ Holding, amounts to a billion and 324 million kuna. Of which Infrastructure 224, Passenger transport 378, Cargo 340 and Trains Wolf 380 million issued capital. We're '98. The year I say they had 22 thousand exactly 908 employees in the then Croatian Railways. In 2010, the figure is 12 thousand 840. Last year, a number of people left with an inflow means retirement and will continue to do so. It's reduced by 10,000 people. We can't say that nothing's happened in the last 10 years. Now about the law. The law on an article we already had here. We had the Law of Cemeteries to solve an individual situation. Now again, we have a law on an article that needs to create new conditions. According to us in HDZ, the law with one article cannot solve the problems of HZ. He according to us, again I say, returns at least that part about control back to the government, gives her the opportunity now to with new people, with the new administration doing what she thinks is best, but again in a way I say without the public. And when there is no conversation with the social partners, the fact is that then we can think about what it is brought about by emergency procedure and what it is so urgent. The fact is that this is an enterprise of interest to the Republic of Croatia and that this is why this article of law should not be adopted and we are in HDZ against it. We know that in the Republic of Croatia there are four types of traffic, road, air, sea and rail, and that each type of traffic, especially in these three parts, means railways, sea and air, the Republic of Croatia has its own legal entities in which the owner and they cannot function without donations, without subsidies. None of these will ever be profitable if she doesn't have a grant from her own country, and so is the outside. When we talk about certain specificities, I think of the meaning of states that have seas very much doping their shipowners so that they can achieve at least some such profitability in those legal persons that are in their possessions. Last year Jadrolini certainly got about 300 million subsidies, HZ got heard we were somewhere a billion and 140. This year, there's about 650 million in the budget for HZ. That's the basic problem that comes up. There's about 500 million kuna missing from last year. The number of people who work in these companies, we heard over 12,000, they have to get their salary. The fact is that the government is trying to achieve its budget to solve the problem that has arisen obviously trying to solve it, in our own way, in the wrong way. We see for ourselves that regardless of all the restructurings that some public enterprises have passed, and Croatian mail shows a loss for the past year. The restructuring issues are not guaranteed that everything will work profitablely, that everything will be successful. The facts show otherwise, and I think that regardless of all the first and primary tasks, it is for all of us, first of all, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to ensure what the unions keep saying, and they have one parole – we want a job, we want to do it. So this is the first and most fundamental task of the owner, to provide them with both work and ensure that they work because without it I say no restructuring plan will be successful. And every problem from the first and the basic facts of how to restructure, who's the one who's going to choose volunteers who have to get out of that system? Do volunteers even exist? Are there people who are in this situation today like we do in the Republic of Croatia when living hard, when the uncertain future, when living more expensive, are there people who want to get out of one security job in a public company? That's a first and a basic question. If so, how will we deal with it and with what means? And most importantly, what about those who stay? Can we continue to function normally with these people, and can these companies do as effectively and well as we all expect them to? These are questions that this government of the Republic of Croatia will certainly have to answer in the future because they have tried to answer the questions of all governments so far, some more successful, some less successful but all of them have done something. And that's why I'm saying I don't agree that all the people, all those who were headed by certain ministries, public enterprises were there to do only damage. I think they gave what they could, possibly some and in the wrong way, but what I'm saying is basically the future and people who expect us to especially in the Parliament in this situation when the Economic Social Council doesn't function, and I think that they have a right to do that, and I say the government will do what it thinks because I say on this side of the right hand in this council that we can prevent this law from being passed, and even by an urgent procedure, even though I think it's time, and we've expressed it on the parliamentary board, that it's time for this Parliament to discuss the issue of HZ Infrastructure at one the thematic session, because in relation to all the other public companies there is the situation of all the public companies that deal with transportation the most difficult, and it's the largest. Here, so much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7933	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first word is Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7934	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here are a few words about this bill but also about the situation in the Croatian Railways, which has been discussed a lot today, but I as a railway child, as a child who was fed and educated by the railways because my father was a railway driver and felt morally responsible for warning certain things. The law before, therefore, which we brought about the division of Croatian railways, thus harmonising the structure of the previous HZ with the legal property of the European Union and so we came to this division, so HZ is divided into four companies, infrastructure, cargo-passage, tow and roof organization as organized as HOLDING, so HZ. This all went well with the guidelines for the liberalisation of the transport market, which is one of the preconditions for accession to European integration, and everyone should welcome this. However, I would like to look back with a few words on the situation in the Croatian Railways especially in the infrastructure of the Croatian Railways which I hold very important, and I am very pleased that I have come to the conclusion in the discussion alone in the representatives of the Government that they are also very well aware and I am confident that we will soon see some moves that will focus on correcting these and irregularities and difficulties. So the Croatian railways are primarily the victim of long-term neglect, neglect in the sense that they have not invested enough in the railway infrastructure. So our tracks are in catastrophic condition, and that's why we're experiencing this suspension, the closure of the railroad, and so on. The speed on certain sections of the track is constantly decreasing, and that's why we're coming back to the paradox as counterpart Cain said, so the relations remain the same, but the trains drive longer. The strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia are to strengthen the pan-European railway corridors passing through Croatia. Croatia has a geographical position to use, so we are a transit country at the border of the east and the west, i.e. the south and the north, and there we can see our niche for future expansion of economic activity. Strategic corridors, when we talk about railways, are Corridors Vb, Vc and Xa. So it is extremely important that these exactly strategic railways, invest in them and keep at least a minimum level of usability on them. I must particularly mention, since our prime minister spoke of this, therefore, about the special attention he will give to Slavonia in this term, which has been quite neglected so far, that two corridors are extremely important for Slavonia, which is this Vc that connects Budapest, Osijek, Mostar and Luka Ploče and Xa, which starts from Graz via Maribor, Zagreb, Vinkovac further to Belgrade and then further east. It is very important for us to strengthen these corridors because the infrastructure connection, so the transport link is extremely important for strengthening economic activity, or for starting them, because when the investor comes somewhere, when he wants to invest the first question that will ask you is the traffic connection. So, which road corridors are close, which rail corridors, whether there's an airport, whether there's a port or something. Osijek-Baranja County here I think there is a lot to offer, since we have several ports, that we have an airport in Osijek and we have an extremely important road corridor and railway corridor Vc. So, first of all, to finish the debate, I would like to point out that infrastructure investment is extremely important. I am pleased that the government is aware of this problem, I hope that it will continue in the good direction of solving the problem, not only of the railways but also of the other transport corridors. And we will, of course, support this law in the hope of saying that the government will soon take some concrete measures that can be felt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7935	Thank you very much. We have one replica, but before it has the advantage of correcting the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7936	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Hajdukovic incorrectly said that Croatian railways are a victim of long-standing neglect. That's incorrect, it was invested according to the possibilities. Here in mine, in my county, the reconstruction of the railway from the Križevci to Koprivnica began at the time, so last government, the value of 100 million kunas. And the other part I want, I'm glad you're proud of your connections with the railroad and that the railroad fed you, but I want to warn you that there is a danger in my Djurdjevac of the station. We have, therefore, addressed the minister, the removal of the station and the loss of thirteen jobs. The answer is gone and the county council has been looking for it, and here it is. So, get scared. It's nice of you to have these opportunities, but many are afraid that we might lose our jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7937	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7938	Thank you very much. I deliberately chose a replica, not a correction to an incorrect quote. The strategic corridors you said, strategic corridors are the corridors on which there is a need for transportation. I don't know if you've met but the current state on the 10th corridor of the so-called. The 10th corridor is zero tons. The only condition, the only need where we currently had for transport, is on the route of Rijeka-Dekeniš and the transit from Bosnia and Herzegovina via Djekeniš, but on this side not by Corridor Vc, but through Volenje, these are currently the only routes that drive as much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7939	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7940	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Croatian railways are a victim of systematic neglect because of this, I think you have evidence everywhere around you, wherever you turn trains or do not drive, railways are lifted or driven any slower. Well, you can't tell me then that we invested in that railroad if that's really the situation. And here's what I'd like to say to my colleague Novak. It's a good thing I'm here to have an answer for you. Yes, but we also have far more important European corridors precisely because of the investors who come and want to, so they have to import their load, product and so on. So they can't do it by road transport if they're factories that have big exits. So it can only be done by rail and by ports, and our railroad is unfortunately in very poor condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7941	Thank you very much. In the aftermath of the debate, Mr Tomislav Žagar is entitled to the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7942	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let us first agree on the claim that the railroad has marked our history, but that it will certainly play an important role in our future. The wise saying says, "It doesn't matter how the wind blows, it's important how we set sails." There are things in life that are urgent and there are those that are important, the art of their distinction is often a prerequisite for success. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the division of the Croatian railway company does not put such a question before us. His passing is both urgent and important and for at least three reasons. First of all, there is the state in which the Croatian railways are located. The length of the railway network is 2722 km, 254 km of which is two-way tracks, while 980 km is electrified. If the projected technically functional parameters of the railway network in the Republic of Croatia are compared to the requirements that should be met by the trans-European railway network railway lines, it may be concluded that it is mostly unfavourable. A large part of the railroad is technically and technologically lagging behind with time parameters from their construction. Indeed, the technically functional state is constantly getting worse due to age and duration, resulting in a continuous reduction of permitted train speeds. The projected state of the railway network in the Republic of Croatia allows traffic of 20 tonnes by axle or up to 22.5 tonnes to 81.8% of the total length of railways, which is a real obstacle to further increase in rail transport. Although the projected track speeds are somewhat more favourable only at 18% of the total length the maximum train speed allowed on the track is equal to the projected speed. For train speeds of 160 km per hour, only 4% of the total length of the track is open, while for speeds of 100 km per hour it is equally small 12%. Commercial speeds in freight transport are inadmissible 25 km per hour and 45 km per hour in passenger. Even worse is the state of the station wagons and turns. Most railways were built more than a hundred years ago. The drain system has not been restored and today it is out of service on many shares. The capital remont network is late to 1800km of network, which raises the question of the survival of railway lines. The contact network of the power substation and sanctioning facilities is about 35 years old and the prescribed recovery of the contact network every 8 to 10 years has not been implemented due to a lack of financial resources. Most of the station and the open railways on the main railway lines of importance for international traffic are provided with outdated... signal-safe devices. Most of the built-in telecommunications and equipment is older than the prescribed usable age and is technologically obsolete. The telecommunications system on the railway network in the Republic of Croatia is not reliable and cannot meet the requirements of modern rail transport. Let us also state here the position of railway vehicles and the extension of the time period between regular repairs and can indeed argue that such a situation is simply unsustainable. What further worsens such a difficult situation is the continuing decline of the number of passengers and tonnes of goods and, accordingly, the business of HZ Holding with losses. The following reason for the adverse situation lies in the internal structure of the company consisting of 4 companies. This concept makes it impossible for carriers to directly manage costs which makes them uncompetitive and even questionable their business sustainability. The unacceptably high share of the cost of the service draws in the total costs of transport, as well as the increase in the price of access to railway routes, has led them to the inability to pay their obligations from the revenues from the sale of services. This concept has led, among other things, to a high level of mutual claims and debt, and to a large number of mutual transactions that make it difficult to operate logically. The third reason lies in liberalising the rail market by entering the EU by entering the Republic of Croatia. All transport operators will be able to use rail infrastructure on equal terms with the payment of the route. There will be strong competition from foreign operators in the transit of goods through our country. With all the problems HZ has, it is clear that they will find themselves in a more unfavourable position than those of highly developed countries. Of course, it always becomes quite clear that foreign operators will try to take the most attractive traffic routes. This particular mention should be made of the fight for the transport of goods from our ports of Rijeka and Ploče. From the above, it is clear that concrete actions need to be taken to enable the creation of an efficient structure of society that will be able to respond in this difficult state to the challenges ahead. The passing of this law is a prerequisite for this process. Finally, what is particularly important is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes on this legislative proposal with full responsibility for the future of the Croatian Railways in order to create a strong and efficient system. So this law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7943	Thank you very much. The next representative who has the word is Mr. Zeljko Kolar. Here's an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7944	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of the law supplementing the Law on the division of the trading company HZ-Croatian Railways d.o.o. Legislative assumptions will be created for a more flexible organisational structure within the HH system and will allow for the implementation of the status changes of the company with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and their sharing, merger and accession in accordance with the Law on Commercial Companies, thus ensuring the preconditions for structural adjustment of transport companies as an important segment of the further restructuring process programme. That's what the government's proposal says. After all of those problems that occur in the Croatian Railways that Mr. Novak said in his presentation that comes from the system and knows very well the state I see absolutely nothing controversial from this bill that should happen. All those who discussed the situation in the Croatian railways agreed that the situation in the Croatian railways was bad. If we're going to talk about who was supposed to do what, what happened from 2001 to 2003, so what happened from 2003 to the end of 2011, we're absolutely not going to change that. Absolutely nothing will happen. The fact is to reduce passenger transport, the fact is to reduce the transport of goods, these are facts. The fact that the loss of HZ Holding in 2010 was €68.4 million. The fact is that in business 2011 all companies related to HZ Holding will also operate negatively. The fact is that over a billion kunas are invested in railways every year. Is there a shift? There isn't. There are always limits on the tracks that still work, constantly reducing the number of speeds that can be transported through the tracks. And it would be interesting, in fact, it's probably really a tourist attraction for the Japanese when they come to Croatia and then they ride our railroad and they think they're watching American movies. That's a fact. Any move by the government to address the situation in the Croatian Railways, any move by the competent ministry, every move by the administration should be welcomed. It is to be welcomed that the railways were the vessels of the development of all regions and parts of Croatia. And how someone can talk about Slavonia as my colleague Cain spoke about Istria, so I can say that in Zagorje the railroad towards Klanjec has been closed for 12 years. And if we miss him, we miss him. If we had three business zones along the track and we were missing it, that when investors first ask me what's going to happen to the railroad, she'll work, she won't work, we'll be able to use it, we won't be able to use it. Not to mention my daughter's companies which probably my colleague Novak knows a lot better than I do, let's just say... The sister company is so infrastructure has 27%, and HZ-Wolch trains 73%, that until two days ago they were blocked, that all the jobs that were done in 2011 were not paid, that the contractors blocked the company and that they unblocked it two days ago. [[You don't understand.]] You know under what conditions, 30% of the money to do the work to get it, and 5% a month left. Who can from craftsmen or private workers, who can handle it. Who can stand it, and the works were done from Knin to Vukovar. Whoever he owes to inside the Holding, who he owes Cargo to, no one knows. It's amazing. It's totally messed up. And instead of saying hello to every move, but absolutely every move that will lead to us taking care of things in HH, to finally start investing in HH we immediately welcome him at the beginning of the knife because he won't be transparent. I support the law, I repeat once again, whatever the Government of the Republic of Croatia does, whatever the competent ministry does, whatever the HZ-enhancing administration does should be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7945	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. First of all, Mr. Josip Boric, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7946	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I've picked up a replica because I'd like to go with Mr. Kolar, and I might want to clear up some misunderstandings. It is not a problem for HZ in the organisational structure, so the organisational structure cannot improve the railway in terms of track, new wagons, etc. It can't organisational structure, it can just... Now it's a question of how. [[You don't understand.]] From the state budget, by loan, by loan, by EU funds, and that is before us. And the organisational structure was set up in 2006 and for the past five years HH was working, sometimes better, sometimes worse, depended on money. It all depended on money. And right now we have the fact that in this year 500 million kuna is less than last year, it's going to be missing somewhere. Where we're going to end it, if we're going to build less, if we're going to fire a part of the workers, and we're going to invest something in the infrastructure itself. These are the questions to be answered now by this government. They've tried everything so far, and everyone's done what they thought was best. Is it perhaps, now seems bad, some say that, but the system regardless of the problems it works, there are also individual incidents and everything else. It is up to us to take advantage of what we all keep saying here, the possibilities of European funds. Will the new administration take advantage of that? Who's the one who's got to prepare the projects, who's the one who's got to take out the building permits to do something. It's not a problem with the workers, they'll do their job. It's no problem to say in structure, it exists. The problem is whether there's money or no money. That's the basic problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7947	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7948	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You were contradictory. Every year HH received over a billion kuna from the state budget. If this had been done well in HH you would have seen the results, the results are gone. Therefore, something needs to be changed. We all agreed the situation was bad. So, we know that it would be ideal to invest in HZ 5 billion kuna, but you and I know it's not possible, but now I'm not going back to it, so let me ask what has been invested in the last 10 years of 12 billion kuna or how much has already come from the state budget without having the right results. That's what a colleague is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7949	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7950	Thank you, Mr. President. As my colleague said and everyone else said, the situation is bad, there's actually no dilemma. The fact is that all aspects of business are negative, from technological to financial, and there's no dilemma there either, it's impregnable. However, it is also uncontestable that this kind of move, and this is not about technical improvement and, in fact, not even about how the organisation looks, so that this kind of move will be made by the Government, by making a law by which it will in future decide on all possible aspects of the restructuring of railways itself, as well as by practice established that practically all laws go according to an urgent procedure, by the accumulation of money and by the authorities in agencies that correspond to itself, that the Government thus withdraws Croatia into a new form of parliamentary democracy. A form of parliamentary democracy in which the government, with one man in charge who is not even the Prime Minister, decides absolutely everything in the state. It also includes today's media announcements of the suspension of public procurement in some state-owned enterprises, HEP in particular and similar actions. In this way this home, this House, little by little, is one step at a time deprived of its own and ingenuity and decision options. I'm not saying that they were big, I'm not saying that it worked perfectly with any government, but it seems to me now that it's going all together in one direction that shouldn't go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7951	Thank you. You have Mr. Representative Vuljanić's reply to the replica of Mr. Representative Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7952	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague, of course, has the right to his opinion, but the fact is that things didn't happen quickly enough in the railways and that the government took responsibility for these processes to be accelerated. Whether it will be good or bad will judge the time, but we are confident that it will be good and we have full confidence in the government for all the moves it will make.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7953	Thank you. And at the end of the line, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7954	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Kolar, it's nice to hear such unspeakable loyalty when you say that every move should be welcomed. It kind of looks like a fan at a football club when he says our club's a bad game, but it's always the best. But look, every move needs to be welcomed. I cannot say hello to a move that says the train station in Djurdjevac will be abolished from which I sent an inquiry, therefore a parliamentary question. The County Assembly is a parliamentary issue because 13 jobs can therefore not be understood because it is definitely 13 families mainly in my town of Djurdjevac, which is in a difficult economic situation. We swear to the railways that are so important and important and they are certainly important and important. In a situation where such a agricultural area is experiencing difficulties immeasurable in agriculture, reduction of support in agriculture, disproportionate price increases and all these circumstances. So I can't agree with you to say hello. You understand? In my part, I see it differently. You may be from your position, but certainly there are those who have great difficulties in doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7955	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7956	Thank you very much. My colleague Milinkovic, of course, that what you were talking about has absolutely nothing to do with this law, but you do it very often and you use the opportunity, you are a master in that I must admit to you, to constantly take advantage of the opportunity and speak something of local importance, which has absolutely nothing to do with this law or Croatian Railways. You could have answered the discussion then and said what you think of the Croatian railways, and it is interesting that you always have the data of those that absolutely no one has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7957	Thank you very much. In the next debate, he applied and has the right to represent Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7958	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a few sentences about this law. On the railway, this law created some legal framework for the restructuring process and structural changes on the railways with the aim of training for competitiveness on the transport market, which is of course based on the principles of organisation and the whole system on the principle of separation and rail infrastructure from rail transport, and better and better liberalisation of the rail transport market. In 2005, we know that the Law was passed on the division of the company of the Croatian Railways d.o.o. which regulates the basic principles of the division of the Croatian railway company into independent business entities according to business areas. In practice, certain deficiencies have occurred during the business of new companies and it has been found that the division carried out does not fully monitor technological processes in the production of transport services within transport companies. In order to enable the restructuring of the Croatian Railways system, it is necessary to supplement this Law on the division of the Croatian Railways Company, which will create a legal basis for the implementation of the status changes of the company created by the division under that law, and their further sharing, merger and accession in accordance with the natural needs of the market, and in order to achieve a better organisational structure within the railway system in accordance with the Law on Commercial Companies. The main objective of this Act is to enable the division of HZ – Trains to be drawn and to be attached to HZ companies – Travel transport and HZ – Cargo d.o.o. This allows for a more rational business, i.e. a reduction in the costs of the carrier. The key part of the manufacturing process of the companies carrying out the transport activity has been converted into a transaction relationship with an internal supplier carrying out the operation of the train draw. In this context, the transfer price established by the internal supplier was not a reflection of the level of prices on the transport market and of the change in the market position of the transport of undertakings, which caused a high share of the cost of the service to be drawn into the total costs of the operations. This concept of sharing to carriers has denied the ability to manage costs throughout its production process which has a significant impact on their competitiveness and market position. Moreover, the number of transactions in their financial consequences that are manifested are at a high level, mutual claims and debts to carry out regular business activities, and thus the success of the implementation of the restructuring programme. By passing the Act supplementing the Law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company and creating all legal assumptions for a more flexible organisational structure within the HZ system and enabling the implementation of the status changes of the company with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and their sharing, merger and accession under the Law on Commercial Companies. Speaking of Croatian railways, I would take this opportunity to point to one problem. Namely, I come from Ivanca from Varazdin County where there is one problem that the citizens of that region have had in the last few years. Namely, the late evening train at 22 and 22 on the route Varazdin – Ivanec – Lepoglava – Golubovec is no longer driving since last year. With the new schedule of Croatian railways, the train that was returning to the homes late in the evening and a large number of students and maha workers simply wiped out. Here is another consequence I must mention, as I have heard here and in other counties, one of the certain consequences of the poor management of the Croatian Railways and with almost no investments in the past term. And Collar's colleague well noted here that it has been invested for years, that in 10 years more than 12 billion kunas have invested in Croatian railways. Therefore, in view of these bad results and of the problems that we face, we must all ask very well where the money invested in the Croatian railways went, and we know that a large number of financial resources have been invested. Finally, I would also like to refer to the debate of my counterpart, Boric, who said in his debate that you would be against this amendment and the addition of the law, the proposals for going through an urgent procedure. Namely, I must remind you that, in the last term, you have also put this same law in the process and late in the evening. So I think your excuse for objecting to this proposal is very bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7959	Replica Mr. Representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7960	Well, here's the thing. I just want to answer that for an emergency procedure. The fact is that we put in an emergency procedure because we had a deadline, we had deadlines that I listed in 1.6.2006. So decisions were to be made, trade companies were to be entered and the issue of restructuring of the Croatian Railways was resolved. We did it and we did the job, and now you can say go on the way you think and the way you think it's best. But constantly mentioning investment in Croatian railways compared to everything else is not correct because the fact that over the past 10 years we have had intensive road construction over 1000 km of highways. And those who expect to be able to do both the railway part and the road section, plus that part about the reconstruction of the Jadrolini fleet just isn't real and all that goes for saying that money is spent anyway, so let them investigate. And I say it always seemed and every government must do it in the best and most effective way. Whether there have been individual incidents, if anyone has abused their position I say about it we can't, the institutions of this country must do it anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7961	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7962	Col. Boric incorrectly, the deadline that you stated was to be respected here in 2006 so you could not respect him then and did not respect him so that there was no reason for us to discuss the law during the last term of the emergency procedure in the late evening hours, and then you were in favour of this law. By noting that the Croatian railways had secured financial resources through the Law on Railways and European Funds, so that it was deplaced to say that in the late evening after the emergency procedure we had to discuss after all these deadlines and when the financial resources were secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7963	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, you have an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7964	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that this bill, i.e. the amendments to the laws, will achieve this and will facilitate the transformation of large and complex HH structures. When it comes to emergency procedures, then it is time to remind ourselves of the state of our Croatian railways and what the boredom was, or it was not, and where the money went. I think it's just going to be the subject of discussion, but not here. Individence, outdated infrastructure, one necessity of capital remont, which is all expensive, so as individual facts, certainly also led to a major security risk. Then we really need to ask ourselves, and not just in the conveyed sense of the words, are our Croatian railways still on the tracks, still on the track, or have they slipped away? Because that was often in the past, too, or they slipped away. Of course, we may recall how often it has been manipulated by railways themselves and all for political marketing purposes. A long time ago, one author, a journalist, wrote about how from Tito's blue locomotive to Tudjman's train of freedom often railways were exploited for this very purpose, and how much investment was invested. Namely, our apologists of the past who blindly followed the failed policy that led to both the crisis and the European level, neoliberalism, which declared the state to be an inefficient master and that it must simply get rid of everything, i.e. everything privatized. And while at the same time this was said not only in Germany but also in France, thanks to God, the situation began to change sharply in France neither Germany nor France privatised the railways, especially for France they were also part of their national pride. Namely, the fact that railways in urban and suburban transport can also have a key development function was spoken by my colleagues, especially those coming from those parts. However, what in some ways symbolizes a single country, regardless of the Internet age, so from that wheel to the Internet, should be said that if we often say and want to harden and we all agree that space is our largest developmental resource, and then many have also talked about it and wrote that transport infrastructure is its backbone, but so is the railway. Especially today when we invest so much and we want to invest and there is a national consensus of investment in our ports. Maritime port, rail-free cargo transfer and good rail infrastructure have thrown money and failed thing. And that's why I'm sure this is the kind of concept of investment in our port of the sea, but it's the same thing to deal with the problem of antiquated infrastructure, of irrational behavior, and that was the fertile soil for corruption and the abduction of every kind of government that wants to be taken into account. Dr Marko Lončarević even had a doctoral dissertation on this subject, and I think it is worth noting and the opinion of the profession that we see in this proposal as well, but also in the government's announcements where the government says we have a plan to invest in the Croatian Railways that 400m euros of credit will be realised through the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will be financed primarily by multi-system locomotives and other programmes, especially in terms of excessive labour. This professor, in his dissertation, also points out that Croatian railways are still, regardless of the company's 100% state-owned property, that they have not taken advantage of development, or the possibility of creating from the Yugoslav railways of the national railways in the Croatian railways that development and accumulated problems have been ignored for years and that the loss of Croatian railways has accumulated from year to year. That often the profitability of Croatian railways is said by traffic, that this mechanism is an assessment of the profitability of any company and so is the Croatian Railways long since abandoned and that we should talk precisely about financial aspects and while our competitors already have results of +50% we are in this area -30%. Thus, it also mentions the effective management of stocks that represent a key factor in the success of modern business conditions. In fact, tomorrow we will also become a country, we will join the EU, and of course certain preparations must already be made there or we will watch other people's locomotives in Croatia while we will be an auxiliary workforce. That's what you've been providing us for the last eight years and it's good that the government has the courage, has the determination not to ignore the railways by justifying that there was no means to invest in the railways because it was invested in road construction. And, gentlemen, how much is your mile? We're not going to talk about the programs in the future how much they cost than how much money was made with that money. Three times your construction was more expensive. Lately, when that locomotive of yours was on fire, that number was four times larger than it was done and built in earlier years and as it was done and built in Europe. There were also objections here why, by emergency procedure, but exactly the profession is saying that we are coughing and that there is no time left to restructure and modernise because we should have started this long ago and that it has to be implemented as soon as possible and in all segments of business. Huge assets and vast existences have been obtained and stand unused. That was often said by Mr Drempetic, however, there was no hearing. So just capturing and bringing an end to my debate I can say that it is precisely that the Nazre railways can be one great developmental resource, after all we here have a sentimental relationship because by these wooden once benches, many unfortunately and so some trains resemble and today they travel together both diamond necklaces and blue collars. I believe that we will get the strength and resources but first of all we will face this big problem because in it, Croatia's railways unfortunately reflect the current mess in Croatian society and it will be the biggest test of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7965	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Damir Rilje. Here's an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7966	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I would like to point out just a few personal opinions as proposed by this law. So this proposal for a law supplementing the law on the division of the company HZ is actually adapted to the market as my predecessors have said. And by joining the EU, they are preparing for liberalisation. This is understandable in view of the adaptation of our legislation to EU legislation as well as the adjustment of the market in general. It is clear that structural companies must be adapted to the market and cannot operate in a way that generates liquidity and create obligations to third business entities but also to the state. Of course, this is not the first attempt to bring HH into a state of business efficiency, so efficiency and economics or other words to make business profitable. The problem of Croatian railways cannot be viewed unilaterally. Of course, you can’t forget about citizens who are the only way into the world like some organized city bus or shipping. In this respect, the State must, of course, subsidise a good part of the business. This is becoming increasingly difficult because subsidies must be secured from a burdened budget or from newly created economic activity and possibly different roles of structural firms on the market. Actually different roles that must actually become different. But the total turnover of Croatian Railways cannot be seen through subsidies because it must be seen through the survival of all the restructuring models of the company. In the existing system of cargo travel from our ports primarily from Luke Rijeka, for example. It lasts 10 hours to Zagreb, which speaks about the current competitiveness of Croatian railways and is also directly related to the development of ports. We know that our government has long been determined to develop port traffic which requires changes in HH. project of the new Rijeka-Zagreb railway, e.g. It was planned in 2007, but nothing happened. That is why considerable changes are needed with appropriate market conditions because as much as we want or do not live on the market, however they may be. Since it is clear to all of us that for this market and we are not too much potential, we would have to have safeguard mechanisms to protect our own interest, but of course we must also have those economic procedures that will allow for discharge and such infrastructure that will be competitive in order to ensure the role of the railway company with as much budgetary discharge as possible and the competitiveness of the railway itself. It's the only way we can be an active economic factor. All these years we have had and we have an economy that could not and cannot ensure such a trend of developments in rail transport, which means that a structural company like the Croatian Railways did not have users in the economy who could provide a sufficient amount of services or traffic that could provide sufficient turnover of capital for profitable business. This is about as much as a highway which does not have an economic activity in the form of a major transport, in particular a truck or transport, which reflects the economic activities that this highway connects, or which road traffic on that highway is taking place and which guarantees some economic continuity. In such circumstances, personal traffic may be expected to increase to a greater extent until the corridors of economic activities that would take place or certain points thus ensure that transits are included. Of course, we could talk about this in shipping on the lines connecting islands and land but points and on the coast and almost in the same way. To this I would only two comparisons of state-owned companies that have been mentioned here today that are currently going through the necessary restructuring processes but also their preservation, which does not mean that others are not of state importance. Here, for example. Croatian shipbuilding. The government of the Republic of Croatia has rehabilitated two shipbuilding sites that have restructuring plans expires 90 days to regulate privatisation under a restructuring plan financed by our country and which has been accepted by all workers and unions and the state and units of local self-government. they must be the backbone of the economy of units of local self-government but thus both regions and states. I will surround this product in that form which is profitable with adjustments in some economic service activities but not as a polygon for seasonal or semi-seasonal activities. There are now waiting workers and their waiting means less tax revenues, inability to pay municipal taxes, less economic activity, thus both rail and road and any other traffic and, of course, the most important life of workers and their families. For example. Croatian Post Office seems to me that it has been mentioned that despite the Law on Mail all this time as a built system has been forced into... Market competition, rather than being prepared as a state-owned structural company modelling other such companies of European and transition states, for full liberalisation that knocks on doors and moves on 1.1.2013. [[You don't understand.]] I think we'll be able to deal with the generated, but also the newly created increased losses and obligations of this company, just in the next debates of this House's sessions. It did not result in losses from restructuring but from the wrong management policy, detachment from core activity and non-application of the still valid Mail Act. There are other companies to talk about but I can't take up time on this wheel. I just wanted to pull parallels from HH which is actually part of this whole system and it's intertwined with what I've mentioned so far. Not all of these companies and not even an infrastructure company like HZ came into this situation yesterday. The organisation of passenger and goods transport must be applicable on the market, but the political framework should be. Of course, rail transport is important for the state, but it also depends on the economy, so it must be adapted to the economy, but also to the citizens, taking into account that the HH has to be in line with the market, and that, as with these companies earlier on, the protection of market activities and the preservation of jobs, which would mean the safety of workers and their families, this law would make it easier for the Government to give consent to HZ organisation in adapting to market conditions. Of course, this can be doubted, and it can be believed. Once again, it is HZ's administration that should and will have to have proposals for a solution to market business and state-controlled restructuring models, but precisely for the sake of state interest this Parliament should, of course, have as many reports of regular events in HH. The market is a mechanism that requires rapid responses and where such reactions are necessary to preserve and stabilise business and achieve benefits, but also to preserve state interest. I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7967	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar has a word in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7968	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. What is the essence of this brief legislative proposal? First, the Government proposes that the Parliament give up part of its powers under the existing law. I reviewed today's programme of government presented by Prime Minister Milanovic on the same day as he represented his government. There is no sentence in the government's programme that the government will ask the Parliament to transfer powers that belong to the Parliament under the laws or constitution. So, these announcements aren't in the program. I am listening to representatives of the ruling coalition as being very excited to support Parliament's power to be transferred to the government and using the sentence that we are elected representatives of the people who, by this logic, are authorized to give up their rights and obligations and to give it to the Government. It's a slow but certain return to a democratic centralist. Secondly, the law we are discussing, which should be changed, has 10 articles. The essence of that law is Article 1 and the other 9 articles refer to the deadlines for the implementation of the actions referred to in Article 1 to be carried out in 2006. And after the amendment to Article 1 as the Government now proposes, all other articles are unnecessary because they talk about the implementation of the law adopted in 2005 and the actions to be carried out in 2006. And instead of coming, Mr. Deputy Minister with a new law in which you will, as it was done in 2005, be told the deadlines of implementation when you are already asking the Government to organise HZ instead of the Parliament, you are changing Article 1 and leaving the provisions that were valid, were important in 2006. In technical terms, one completely illiterate law, you have proposed amendments to the law. Unnecessary. Article 1 Instead of Parliament, the Government shall decide on HH. Point. Conduct immediately until we've done everything. It shall take effect after the publication in the People's Newspaper. That's what you had to suggest, then that would make sense. This thing with the other articles of the second to 10th law, and this provision has nothing to do with each other. It just means that you've been doing it all over again, in a hurry, by an emergency procedure from me completely unknown reasons. And I didn't think so, but you were all talking about the state of emergency in HZ, non-investment, non-investment, problems, so I'll just have two sentences about it. It is true, some railways have been reconstructed in Croatia. I, for example, know very well on the Zagreb-Koprivnica move, Križevci-Koprivnica, before the reconstruction the speed was 80 km, after reconstruction construction speed allowed 160, but for safety reasons reduced to 120, and after reconstruction on bridges and... at 20 km/h because the construction project did not provide for the reconstruction of bridges and... [[You don't understand.]] It is especially on the Zagorje railway, especially from Zabok to Varazdin present. [[You don't understand.]] And what we got with it, trains drive Zagreb-Koprivnica-Varaždin-Cakovec, after the reconstruction of the railway train rides 25 minutes longer than before the reconstruction. And it is not true that it is not invested or invested in Croatian railways. Here I have six documents and I will prove 501 thousand investments, 501 thousand kuna in HZ infrastructure. The first is from January this year, I quote: we charge you a service of professional assistance in terms of crisis communication 84 thousand kunas and something. The second is from February last year, we charge you for help in defining the strategic planning of internal communication in the company. Then they've invested in staff management, and we charge you a service to design a crisis communication plan and make a SWAT analysis of the company. So in September last year they invested another 85,000, we charge you a service of analysis of media monitoring of public companies in situations of major restructuring. So from November last year, they calculated 80,5 000 for a proposal for a Public Relations Strategy to implement projects to analyse transport activities and in the 12th of last year a new invoice charging them with the creation of an internal communication project in a crisis situation. Five hundred one thousand kunas from HZ infrastructure are invested in crisis communication, training management that now comes into a situation that did not know how to manage HZ or restructure, and will now be done by the government. So you see how much money has been invested in HH infrastructure especially in the management chamber. And if we continue like this, we will have a situation that the session of the Parliament will be enough annually to last for five days because we will pass all the powers of the Parliament to the Government by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7969	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7970	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here it is already said, but I will repeat that this is exactly how the bill opens up that possibility, i.e. it is essentially proposed to transfer the powers of the Croatian Parliament to the government. On the other hand, he wants to convince us, of course, that we need to trust that it will not be so, that the Croatian Parliament will continue to have insight and that it will be able to debate, and that it will be able, of course, to perform its functions as regards the further development of HH. However, we have experience, at least here I will mention two examples. Once when we discussed the Law on Centres of Social Care, I also asked the Deputy Minister for Social Policy to give me guarantees that this law would not change just so that under the new law the Administrative Council was replaced and I specifically mentioned the Administrative Council of the Social Care Centre in Luga Samoborski. And the Deputy Minister here in front of us in this House gave his word that it would not be and that we must trust him. But what happened? After the bill was passed only a week ago and of course the Administrative Council of the Social Care Centre in Lug Samoborski was removed, the new director appointed, the old one replaced without reason. So how do you believe it? On the other hand, of course, with colleague Komadin, while he was minister of discussion about the development of HZ, especially what we are interested in in Samobor, Svetonedjeljska enda, which is the Zagreb-Selobor railway. And he referred me to the assistant ministers, and so I also spoke with Assistant Krismanovic, with Assistant Kumric, and assured me that this plan would also be included in the priorities that he would deliver all the materials, that I would be immediately informed of the further steps. But since that conversation, it's been almost two months, and I haven't received any information yet. How do you believe, then, that this law will, in fact, limit the function of Parliamentarians so that they can be controlled, that they can convey the interests of citizens regarding the development of HZ? And the interest of the citizens of Samobor, Samobor region, the City of Svetonedelic region, is just the construction of this railroad, which, as counterpart Cain mentioned earlier, was built while we were in Austria-Ugarland, and then during Yugoslavia it was abolished and now the time is when we enter the European Union, when we return here to that community to rebuild it. In one of the first appearances, former Minister Komadina also mentioned the construction of the Zagreb-Samobor railway as one of the priorities in one of the Rijeka lists. However, in time it was simply lost, Minister Komadina went away, the new minister did not mention it anywhere, his associates here did not provide any information, and on this side information and accurate insight of what the government plans to do, what HZ intends to do with the construction of the Zagreb-Samobor railway. This is of course interested in all citizens of the region, not only those who voted for HDZ, but absolutely all citizens regardless of party commitment. And so here's why I'm still taking this opportunity to ask the government to give us this information and that this Parliament can be well informed and control what it will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7971	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. You have one replica, a replica from Mr. Bora Grubisic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7972	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Many, fellow Stier, are emotionally bound to that Samoborček who existed forty, fifty years ago who drove on the Zagreb-Samobor route. Today, however, memories of it are just buses that say Samoborcek. Well, I guess it's enough for this government to remind and fill these emotional, emotional memories of this train that existed between Zagreb and Samobor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7973	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7974	Here you go, buddy. It would really seem that there are only some intentions in Samoborca to make a film and to live off memories, but to the citizens of Samobor, the Holy Sunday should actually be built that railroad, that it becomes a reality again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7975	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Representative Minister, Mr. Zdenko Antičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7976	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here's the end I have to say a few final words and actually I'm personally deeply saddened by the fact that in fact with everyone who's taken
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7977	I'd like to ask my fellow MPs to speak to the proposer's representative, if they can be a little quieter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7978	The participation in the discussion of this bill did not have a single nice word about the Croatian railway. And that is, unfortunately, the bitter truth we must face. And that is why this proposal is the amendment and addition of the 2005 law that speaks about the organisation, that is, the structure of the organisational structure of the Croatian Railways. Therefore, if we read more carefully the first article of this Law, it is possible, with the previous consent of the Government, to set up different organisational schemes of the Croatian Railways, which is, that is, the urgency is to implement restructuring, to allow railways to be restructured in a company that will be prepared tomorrow for entry into the European Union, i.e. it can function in the way other railways, as the railways need to operate. So, once again, I will point out, the intensity of this existing organization is, therefore, where it is on the roof of Holding and down there are these four companies, along with the other 14 daughters of the railway company, which represents the brake of restructuring, i.e. functioning, normal functioning of the railroad as a system and regardless of which I read whether or not someone will support or challenge this Act or vote against this Act, I read that the arguments of all the debaters go precisely in favour of the adoption of such amendments and the addition of the law. Here I am thanking everyone for the valuable and some new information I have heard, and for the new administrations set up in the railway system as a whole will be to take them into account, of course, and for the restructuring programme to be as good as possible and for the railways to be prepared for the competition standing in front of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-11-0.u7979	I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We will vote today when business conditions are achieved, and we would now move to the second part on Fridays to decide if we have an addition to the agenda, and then we have a vote on the laws and decisions we have and discussed in the proposed text this week. Final draft law supplementing the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways d.o.o., emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 84. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the vote 85 votes for, 27 against, 1 abstentions are passed Law supplementing the Law on the division of the trading company HZ-Croatian Railways d.o.o. in the text as proposed by the applicant.
