ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. On 4 October 2011, the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic concluded a protocol with the existing Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation, proposing a new article on the exchange of notifications. The basic difference with the existing contract is that the exchange of information on the basis of the existing Article 26 applies only to income tax and profit tax as regards the Republic of Croatia, and in the case of the Czech Republic on personal income tax, income tax on legal persons and income tax on immovable property. A new article may exchange notifications with respect to all taxes introduced in either the Republic of Croatia or the Czech Republic. Article 26 is a standard in OECD Member States in particular in light of the latest enhanced exchanges of information it insists on by OECD itself to cover up profits, i.e. avoiding tax payments by depositing money on bank accounts in other countries. The Republic of Croatia has also concluded in the last 5 years the Treaty on the avoidance of double taxation with such an extended provision. This extended notification provision will be fully implemented in accordance with the rules of the Treaty on the avoidance of Double Taxation and the OECD Contracting Model's comments. Given the nature of the procedure by confirming international contracts that the Republic of Croatia and formally express its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract and the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is generally not possible to change and supplement the text of the international treaty, we propose that this proposal of the law be discussed and adopted by means of an urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10774	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the Committee's working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The Club of Representatives at the Croatian Assembly of the HDSSB and the respected representative Boro Grubisic applied for the debate. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, this proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic and then the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes and property with the final proposal of the law has been quite frequent and we usually do not have a discussion about it. Like I don't think I owe much in connection with this bill. But since I'm taking the chance that the deputy minister is here, I'd like to ask me something a little bit, since maybe my medical profession, and yet we're also touched by taxes, taxes and everything else, is a little unclear. It is true that the protocol was signed on 4 October 2011, now 6 months, 8 months later on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament by emergency procedure. It is also true that Article 26 is a standard in Member States of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, particularly in light of the most recent enhanced exchanges of information that the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development itself insists on. However, what I am interested in, which I wanted to ask to know better and that we would all know, so this is contained in, on page 2, basic issues that are proposed to be regulated by law. In fact, it seems to me that the Deputy Minister can tell me if it is, in fact, asymmetric relations with those taxes that are listed here. So, I'm saying asymmetrically, therefore, taxes in the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic actually have a different definition, and in fact it seems to me that, in the end, it's been working on comprehensive and all the taxes that, and here and here, are the taxes, right? Well, that's me, it's so written, it's blurry, it's stuck to me that it wasn't clear to me, and that's why I answered my word, that you confirm it to me or not. So, in the first wave it seems one, so one asymmetric and not a reciprocal contract or agreement, here, and whether it is or not, here you are experts, so please explain it to me. It is clear that this agreement will step up economic cooperation between the Czech Republic and Croatia as current members of the European Union, as well as Croatia as future members of the European Union. And clearly, as former CFT members, both of them and other countries, which, by joining the European Union, actually ceases to be an economic organisation, or ceases to be a member of one who becomes a member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10776	Thank you, too. We thus exhausted a list of registered representatives and a list of registered representatives' clubs. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to the next item of the agenda. We'll vote on this law when the conditions are met. And the next item of the agenda is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ. No. 106 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the Government of the Proposer want to further explain the proposal? Minister, would you like to explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10778	Dear Mr. Vice-President's Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. You have before you the proposal for a law amending the Pension Insurance Act, first to explain the reason for the urgency. The reason for the urgency is that the Employment Encouragement Act introduces a new category of insurance, which is the seasonal work in agriculture and, in order to comply with this law, it is necessary to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, because it has already begun the implementation of the Employment Encouragement Act itself. And on the other hand, the Employment Encouragement Act allows pensioners who do these jobs to do these jobs to receive compensation and not to be suspended from paying their pension. Also, by this law, we bring this law in line with the Law on Contributions. Therefore, the worker who has made the other receipts, in respect of which pension insurance contributions are calculated, will be determined from the basis used to calculate the contribution up to his maximum annual base regardless of the insurance period achieved in that year. Which will ensure compliance with the Contribution Act. Legally a little vague, but out of life this means that those workers who retire and receive severance, so far this severance has not been entered into the mass that served to calculate the pension and therefore some of our pensioners have been suspended for part of the pension. So, with this amendment to the law, with this amendment to the law of severance, it enters into the mass used to calculate the pension. And that's why some pensioners will have a bigger pension than they've had before. We think it's okay for these pensioners, because severance is part of what they deserve during their work and something that hasn't been arranged so far. This law corrects that injustice. Also, starting on 1 January 2013 The Committee for the Review of Disability within the Ministry comes within the framework of the ministry, so supervision for the pension system. The Committee for Revision of Disability Pensions has been in the Pension Insurance Office so far. So, the commission appointed by the government, just to say that this commission at this point is decimated since most of the members of the commission have retired, so at this point we only have two members of the commission. The Commission and other changes in this system will be important because Croatia is one of the countries with the highest number of disability pensions, around 27% of disability pensions are of the total number of pensioners in Croatia. This is where we step down significantly from all of Europe, but not only that, but it's a year away from the total number of pensioners 12% goes into disability pension. The average of Europe is between 6 and 8%. I think we are neither sicker than Europeans nor that the working conditions in Croatia are not 100% worse than in Europe, that we have 100% more people with disabilities than Europe has. So, in that part of the disability pensions, it is obvious that certain changes should be made, that disabled pensions go to those who really need them, and that those who are trying to cheat the system, and we are aware of the fact that it was, some trials will be conducted. There's been an indication that it was a broader phenomenon. So we have to make very significant changes in that part. One of these significant changes is the introduction of a Centre for Medical Skills at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which will perform skills in the process of determining disability, physical damage and general incompetence, and in order to objectively determine health and work capacity. The centre is designed according to the example of similar centres in the Republic of Austria and Germany in which the medical skill process is conducted. In Croatia, it is against Croatia once you have a certain degree of disability, that this degree of disability is permanent. However, according to experts and rules applicable in other countries, it is natural that disability is not permanent. It can be bigger or it can be smaller. For this reason, in European countries where a certain degree of disability has been established over a certain period of time, the Commission is again calling for a state of revaluation, i.e. re-determining the degree of disability. And that's something we want to introduce in Croatia, too, through this Center for Medical Engineering. On the other hand, the skills system is also a prerequisite for permanent rights recognised in the pension scheme. And in the element of permanent state, incompetence for work, is different from inability to work in the health system. For this reason, it is extremely important to provide an additional mechanism for the control of medical records. We will do so through this centre, because medical experts working at the Medical Skills Centre will be able to provide medical documentation in those cases where they are deemed insufficient or suspected that medical documentation does not correspond to the real state they will have the opportunity to make additional checks in institutions and independent experts today and in the Republic of Croatia. This Center for Medical Engineering will also enable us to have a better situation in the field of medical warlocks for the reason that we have a constant lack of that staff. In some areas, offices, even for many years, do not have medical experts but must be helped from other district offices. On the other hand, medical professionals today go to people who are at the end of their working life, who have a good experience, but the problem is that we can't use them for long then in the system since people have to retire. And on the other hand, as far as younger colleagues are concerned, it is clear that the interest in some other professions is that for medical skill that is extremely hard work, extremely responsible, stressful, sometimes uncomfortable, there is not much demand. So, we also want to strengthen the profession with this, at the Medical Skills Center to bring in medical professionals who will be well paid, who will be educated, who will follow the profession and be objective really that those who need to go to a disability pension really are going to go. As regards the very procedure at the Center for Medical Engineering, the procedure will be standardized by a special regulation. So, the medical skill regulation remains. So we don't change her. She stays what she is. The reason why we feel that this article of the law should enter into force in 1.1.2014 is because it takes us a year to establish the center itself, not only on the legal side, but also on the professional side and all of the preconditions that we have to make before this law comes into force, so that we have predicted that in a year it will take us, that it will take us a year to reorganize the entire system, to get personnel and to organise our own skills system. Naturally, this is not a magic wand and we do not think that with this we will solve all the problems that we have in this system, but we think that we will make an important step that will allow us to better control the system and have a very high quality in the system. Also, this bill reduces the number of members of the Governing Council from 13 to 9 members in order to rationalise costs, and we change the composition of the Governing Council by introducing representatives of staff of the Institute in accordance with the Labour Act. When you look at the number of members of the Governing Council by the government and by the pensioners, employers, unions and representatives of the institutions, then the government's representatives are in the minority, the ratio is 4:5. Also, to level the system headed by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. As you know in the rest of the director's system, it is chosen by the basis of a public tender on the proposal of the minister to be elected by the government. So far, the Director of the Pension Insurance Institute has elected the government on a proposal from the minister. Therefore, by introducing this law, the Director of the Pension Insurance Office will elect the Government to base a public tender on the proposal of the Minister responsible for Labour. We are also introducing the Institute of Deputy Directors of the Institute who will have the primary task of setting up the Medical Skills Centre and who will have of all other obligations that will have its primary objective is the disability assessment system and the disability pension system itself. We propose it as in the other part of the system on which the Head of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System is to appoint the Government on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the pension system. It's the same novel as the Employment Service and other parts of the system. We will also comply with the provisions of the law in the system of state administration which regulates the implementation of administrative supervision by the competent Ministry of Labour and the pension system. I am taking the opportunity to announce that this is one of the most likely latest amendments to the Pension Insurance Act because we will start a wide debate in the beginning of autumn on the development of the pension system in Croatia. And it is likely that the new Pension Insurance Act will come to the bench because the current one has 6 fundamental changes and is very difficult to cope with, so we will launch a broad debate on pension insurance itself and adopt a new Pension Insurance Act somewhere in the fourth quarter of this year. We expect everyone to contribute to the development of the pension system itself. What we have come to believe is that we do not intend to reform the pension system, that it is good, that it should stand on three pillars, so the first, second and third pillars, that we should raise the percentage of payments in the second pension column from 5 to 7% but not at the expense of the net salary and not at the expense of the first pension pillar, because the second pillar must be strengthened according to how anywhere in the world between 7 and 10% in the second pillar provides decent pensions in the future. We will also launch a discussion on pension coordination, so we will discuss whether the Swiss formula is good, whether we must move away from it and how we will coordinate pensions. The peace will be paid, pensions will be harmonised. The first next adjustment is at the 9th month of this year when pensions will be harmonised according to Article 84. The pension insurance law, therefore, according to the Swiss formula. We will also open the debate and how the pensions in Croatia will be valorised in which way we will ensure that the purchasing power of the pensioners is retained because the freezing of pensions we had in the past period has led to the least that the purchasing power has dropped by at least 10%, which means that what you could buy for the same pensions this year in less than 10%. As far as harmonisation is concerned, it's hard to say how much an increase in pensions will be. It will depend on how much the cost of living will be and how much wage increases will be, but quite certainly pensions will be harmonised and pensions will be paid regularly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10779	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're opening up the debate by law club. It is the first SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Vanja Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10780	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Ministers with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure, inter alia, and for particularly justified state reasons, since compliance is carried out with the provisions of the Employment Encouraging Act, the Law on Contributions, the Labour Act and the State Administration System Act, the way in which the directors of the Institute are elected and the number of members of the Board of Directors is reduced. This legislative proposal therefore aligns the Pension Insurance Act with the Employment Encouragement Act, which is necessary because a new category of insurance, a seasonal worker in agriculture, can be a beneficiary of pensions is introduced. In this way, this harmonisation will first allow for that provision to extend the circle of insurance undertakings which are necessarily provided to seasonal workers in agriculture and allow pensioners to carry out seasonal work without being abolished. This legislative proposal of the Pension Insurance Act also aligns the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Contributions i.e. In the future, the basis under which contributions for pension insurance were calculated would be taken to determine the value points but no more than the maximum annual base prescribed for that year, regardless of the period of insurance achieved in that year. What we also support as a club and that is exactly what will come after these changes, and that is the pensioners who received the severance and did not count on them in the work experience in the future. We particularly welcome the establishment of the Institute’s Medical Skills Centre because the monitoring of the procedure for the exercise of the right based on disability in pension insurance has been demonstrated in recent years that cases of non-acquired rights have been established on the basis of unverified medical documentation and undefined criteria in the skills process. The fact of disability, physical damage or general incompetence to work must be determined objectively and impartially in the future. Accordingly, this law also proposes the establishment of a medical skills centre that will start its work from 1 January 2014. Namely, the Institute also faces the lack of authorised witches, unequal skills criteria, and the establishment of a centre will establish a unique criterion of medical skill and improve the efficiency of the work of the witches. The revision of disability has been carried out at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in the future would be carried out by a committee in the ministry responsible for the pension system that oversees the work of the Institute in the implementation of pension insurance, which will be much more quality and efficient. The SDP club also supports reducing members of the board of directors from 13 to 9 and the distribution within the council itself is much more quality than before. Namely, 4 members go on the proposal of the Secretary-General, 2 members on the proposal of the Association of Pensioners, 1 member on the proposal of the Economic and Social Council of the Association of Employers, 1 member on the proposal of the Economic and Social Council of the Union and 1 member of the representatives of the staff of the Institute in accordance with the Labour Act, and therefore this was the last one we did not have before. This will, of course, reduce the total costs from 13 to 9 members of the Governing Council. The law also proposes that the director of the Institute be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the time of 4 years after the public tender is carried out on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the pension system. This is therefore in line with the provisions of the Law on Institutions, and it is also proposed that the director of the Institute shall have a deputy appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister. And what we particularly support, therefore, is that this deputy will be in charge of the establishment of the Medical Skills Centre, of disability pensions, and we believe that the system will be far more quality. So far, we have had a provision to appoint the Director and Assistants to the Government on a proposal from the Minister in charge of the Work. From all of this, the SDP supports the adoption of this law. amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10781	Thank you, too. HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10782	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. These amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act have made several technical interventions, i.e. alignment with other previously passed laws, but some changes have also been introduced that actually confirm the continuity of the government's actions, which mainly characterizes a distinct passion for the staffing and hosting of party counterparts. By allowing pensioners to re-supervise seasonal affairs, it was of course necessary to resolve their pension status and here an exception to the rules that speak of situations where pension payments are suspended. Allowing pensioners to do occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture, while suspending pension payments is a good solution and is useful for all employers who need seasonal agricultural workers and want to hire people who may have done so for years and who are retired and without jeopardising their pension status, yet they can be hired without putting them at risk of entering the gray zone. But, of course, it's also good for the pensioners who are thus repairing the material situation. Furthermore, this law is in line with the Law on Contributions, and related to the determination of value points in the section relating to remuneration receipts, so that these other receipts will include the determination of the value of points. These two changes are important and they should have been adopted, but this proposal brings another important change in the sensitive area of the approval of disability pensions. Our pension system faces major problems or as challenges are being said today. A million and 200 thousand pensioners and about a million-and-a-half taxpayers, the pension system itself suggests that there is a major imbalance in the charge of the first pillar pension fund and the need to pay off the pensions of generation solidarity. In addition, the structure of pensioners clearly points to the essence of the problem of our pension system. About 650,000 pensioners receive an age pension, 253,000 pensioners receive a disability pension, that is, without Croatian defenders, there are about 58000 who receive a disability pension and about 240,000 people receive a family pension. According to HZMO data, about 4-5 thousand people go into disability pensions annually. Furthermore, Croatia has 82,000 pensioners under the age of 55 and even 180000 under the age of 60, without Croatian defenders. It should be said that 11,000 pensioners are under the age of 24. The average retirement pension rate is 32 years, disabled is 23 and family is 27 years. The average retirement rate in Croatia is 62 years old, and disabled at 54 years of age. The proposal to amend this law provides for the establishment of a Centre for Medical Skills in which medical skills will be performed in the disability process. The center will be established in the office. Since it is clear that the promoter's intention to further sharpen the problem of going into invalidity pensions and preventing criminal abuse is not clear what will ensure that the future centre as a special establishment unit of the Institute works better, better quality than it has been in the framework of existing mechanisms. The more the proposal does not show how the centre will be organised, how it will perform its role. It is also not clear for what reason the expert commission carrying out the audit will be appointed by the minister, not by the government as before, and will be part of the competent pension system ministry. Only the ministry thus extends its competence and does not address the systemic problem of reforming the pension system but enters unnecessary operational affairs. Here the proposal also changes the governance structure of HZMO, reducing the number of members of the Governing Council by the Pensions Association from 3 to 2 unions from 3 to 1, employers from 3 to 1. Four members remain on the minister's proposal and one member of the staff is added. It is obvious that it wants to reduce the impact of the social partners, ensure the government's prevailing influence and thereby further minimise the role of social dialogue wherever possible. It is obvious that it wants to reduce the cost, only for the reason that a new party-like person in the form of a deputy director who has never existed before, and without any argument why it is important to install another unnecessary function. On the contrary, rather than going into rationalisation and reform of this institution, it opens up a position for the installation of similar personnel. The same has happened in the Croatian Employment Service, and therefore we appreciate this law only as meeting the need for necessary technical changes to some articles of the law, but also the establishment of a centre and change in governance as a continuation of the practice of staffing which is the only feature of the work of this Government. The reforms the Kukuriku coalition has announced in the campaign in this system have nothing to do with it. The problems in the pension system will only continue to accumulate because, apart from cosmetics, nothing happens, and given the economic problems of growing unemployment and further deterioration of working conditions for the economy, we can expect that meeting pensioners' obligations in this year could even arise. The government will certainly have an interesting answer to the question of how it will provide at least 400 million kuna by the end of the year for which it stems from the basis of the harmonisation, and how it will fulfil the obligations under the obligation to repay the debt. Without answering how to get the Croatian economy out of the recession we are pushed into again, it will be difficult to find answers to the difficult questions about the sustainability of the Croatian pension system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10783	Thank you, Your Honor. First one notice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expires at 11.20 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. The notice is correct, so time is running out. Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10784	My colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. First of all, what we consider to be good in the bill is that, in the basis of the calculation and determination of the value of pensions other than salaries, other incomes plus wages, for which there is an obligation to calculate and pay contributions. What surprises us, but now more and no more, is the change in the number and composition of the board of directors and the introduction of another political duty, functions in the pension insurance system. It's probably also a rotating door system or what's called the door that Prime Minister Milanovic patented, you come in and you come in or you get kicked out, that's how it was said. The explanation that the reduction of representatives of pensioners' associations of the Economic and Social Council from the ranks of trade unions and ranks of employers is due to parity or respecting the minister's appointment of 4 members for us is not acceptable. Because as far as I'm aware of in the current system of such work of the board of directors, there were no more serious problems, and that was an emphasis on respecting the social partners. Because putting together representatives of the Association of Pensioners, trade unions and employers and bringing it together with the third partner of the Government is not correct because the interests of employers and trade unions as well as the interests of trade unions and pensioners' associations do not necessarily have to be consistent, the same, identical. That is why it was planned that by the number of their representatives they have more than the government's representatives. But this is seen as a message that the issue of respect for social partners and social dialogue comes down exclusively to form and parity, not the importance and possibility of influence. But it's a political decision that they'll probably be able to value both pensioners' associations, trade unions and employers. As far as the Deputy Director is concerned, if the pension system has so far functioned and acted without the deputy director who are these reasons that the director must have his deputy, what will he do, which is a major change in such a system and how many other political appointments in the system that, Minister Mrssić, you intend to open by the end of this calendar year? And I'm using this opportunity to warn you of a problem of non-compliance between the health, pension and work system, and I'm going to beg you not for us or me, but for six cases we've had so far to solve one problem, which comes from the Health Insurance Act, but regarding Article 4 of these amendments and additions. According to Article 39. Health insurance laws can be kept on sick leave for up to three years. And after that, they no longer exercise the right to pay for their illness. Article 39 of the Health Insurance Act Five, six times the disability commission of the pension system refused to establish disability and recognise the right to a disability pension. In theory, the conditions for the employer to give his personal conditioned notice are met. Therefore, there are conditions for the employer to give a personal conditional notice. However, during the sick period, the cancellation period cannot run, so the cancellation is invaluable and it turns out that employers should pay workers wages when three years of sick leave pass. We consider it unfair for sick workers who are not able to work on health care because they are also respected for the sick and the health system control and control documents. So it's not about lying. The peace system does not want to accept them as disabled, employers cannot continue to pay their wages because for this there is no sound reason, to quit to a sick worker who spent three years on sick leave and the profession says he can't work, pensioners do not want to accept him into his system and yet he is practically impossible because during the sick period he can't go canceling. In that Gordian node of unresolved and non-compliance with the rules of health, pension and labour law, you should either intervene urgently or I urge you, please, to assist the interpretation of this situation in six such cases, three of which are in court proceedings. I think it is our obligation as a minister to warn that there are such cases, I think it is an obligation of the Ministry of Labour to intervene and that we know that we are equally interpreting the regulations that both employers and workers, but also the health and pension system knows how to set up in this case. This is about those sick workers who didn't know about Rubal, so I'm talking about them. Not those who knew what Rubalo was, but those who sincerely tried to exercise their right through the health and pension system and who went through the control of health records during each training where the Croatian Health Insurance Office carried out a review of the procedure and found that it was justifiable sick leave for more than 3 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10785	Thank you very much. The word came from respected Miranda Mrsic, minister of labour and pension system of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10786	Honorable MPs and MPs, Your Honor. So, we have said several times and stressed that the payment of pensions is certain, that the funds for first harmonisation and for the second harmonisation there is, they are foreseen by the budget, they are provided for an item that is related to the payment of pensions in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office and will not come despite some of the obviously evil remarks that there will be a problem in the payment of pensions. No, pensions are paid on time exactly as it's drawn. So there won't be any pension disturbances. The pensions will be paid and pensions will be aligned in 1.09 with the cost of living and the increase in wages towards the Swiss formula, and in the following year we will see how we will coordinate them, but there will be no freezing of pensions, pensions will continue to be harmonised both next year and all those coming years while this coalition government is in power. As for the composition of the 35 billion kuna Governance Council that we spend on pensions, we collect about 19 billion contributions. To pay off pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, we need about 23 billion. So the state is about to participate in the pension system itself somewhere with about 17 billion more or less. Based on that is parity in the Governing Council. Therefore, the Administrative Council is a minority government, and as far as representation is concerned, it is equally represented. Because the Pension Insurance Office isn't just an institution that has a million and two hundred and some thousand pensioners, but it's an institution that has a million and four hundred thousand workers. Therefore, it is the institution that cares for one and the other parts of the population. People usually think that the Pension Insurance Institute is just an institution that pays for pensions, no, it's an institution that takes care of the collection of contributions, it will be a very important hub point of the pension insurance system itself in Europe. So, with 1.7. In 2013, we also begin to take care of foreign citizens who will come to work in Croatia. On the other hand, we will be linked to the pension system of the European Union. Therefore, it is not only on the one hand, so that the remark that pensioners are underrepresented does not stand. On the other hand, we've already said several times, here I hope when we get comments from pensioners' associations, we're setting up a National Council of Retired People who will be a tripartite body in which they will be representatives of pensioners' associations. So, not partyally, they will be representatives of the government, therefore, of the competent ministries and will be representatives of the parliament. Therefore, we will send a letter to the Parliament to appoint representatives of that third part of the National Council, parliamentary representatives. Therefore, on this National Council, which will be a very important place for us to discuss with the pensioners, everything we will propose, and to adopt or not adopt the Parliament, will be on that National Council. And that National Council of Hope will be established very quickly, by the end of this month. I think that we are very close to agreeing both the Agreement and the Rules of Procedure, and on that National Council one of the first points will be the harmonisation of pensions. So the formula that we're going to coordinate pensions in the next periods. And among the pensioners there are different opinions, one would be just a rise in wages, the other would be just an increase in the cost of living, we would sit down and we would agree. But in any case, there will be a harmonisation of pensions in the next periods. As for this compliance of the Pension Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Act, we know we don't need to be warned, we've already met, talked to the Resort Ministry. There's a problem between the former health minister's desire to in some ways violently reduce the rate of illness. So he determined that if you're more than 3 years sick, you're going to retire automatically, whether your treatment is over or not. On the other hand, the pension system gives a permanent right unlike a health care system that allows you to be treated. So we have to sit there and figure out how to deal with it. In Europe, for example, the German system continues to monitor the health insurance system further and the insured citizens who are permanently ill. So we with this would allow just one transition from one to the other, without the treatment being over, and there's that story. So, we're going to deal very quickly between the ministries the way we're going to solve it and we know and it's not just these six cases, there's more. So, for now we're sitting down and we're not going to go that way, because there's no point opening up, because definitely you from one treatment state, you're automatically crossing, then we could all. As soon as you're sick, you can go to a disabled peacehouse. So we're going to solve it, and we're going to absolutely respect that part in the best interests of these people, because it's not their fault that they're sick. And we will allow them to continue to receive the compensation they have received so far. We'll probably get it done real quick and legally, legally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10787	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We continue the debate in cubes, and now it's the HSU club and the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10788	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an assistant, a colleague and a colleague. So, I'm glad we're going like this. This pension legislation could be discussed for a long and wide time, but we will concentrate on what is the subject of today's debate, which are amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act. And what I am pleased to see is that the Croatian Labour Club has also agreed well in this law, a good solution in point 2 of this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Which ensures that all workers who have, or not by their own free will, retired in severance, which is slightly greater than the law of determined severance and paid taxes and contributions, that these contributions are in the function of obtaining pension rights. And, therefore, what you will be, as you have in the proposal of this law, which will be a new cost, is much less than any lawsuit that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office would have to pay on that matter. And that must be a good solution. Secondly, which could be the subject of any controversy here in the Croatian Parliament and I see that the controversy has opened, that we are in some way lowering the standards around the tripartite management of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. I have to defuse you. In fact, in the current resolution of the Pension Insurance Act, there has been no mention of trade unions as partners, but so far it has been said that in the article, just a moment to be precise, in Article 131 so far there have been four members on the proposal of the Minister of Pension Insurance, three members on the proposal of the Insurance Associations. Do you also know of any insurance companies that are registered and operating? Because this is an ad specialum. So, what I'm saying right in the head must be an insurance company. So, the unions here were derivatives, and I have to admit that there was one quasi tripartism in the solution so far. If we leave another position, the position that is often mentioned in Croatia is that the state gives a lot to pensioners. I'm ready to harden something else. So since the existence of the Croatian pension system, the pension system has given much more to the state than the state has given to the pension system in recent years. Remember that all the buildings of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute as public institutions, all the facilities, all the homes of the pensioners were built with money from the resort, were built with insurance money. Do we want a closer history? Croatia is also armed with part of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute's money and has defended itself in this way among other things. Well, that's the kind of solution that's been admitted to the debt, so according to the pensioners, she said in herself it's true. But look if, as counterpart Lesar spoke of tripartism and those standards, if we were to speak with the position of who contributed to the contribution, then the solution so far said that there were three members on the proposal of employers’ associations. Come on, please tell me for 15 years how many employers have contributed to the pension system? How much do they pay in the pension system? They pay for any supplementary pension insurance, i.e. additional pension insurance due to their benefits. So that's it, that's it. So sometimes tripartism could have been a requirement because we had half the pay, half the pay. We haven't been there since '95. Therefore, employers do not participate financially and have no basis to insist on tripartism. But it's good because of the working relationships on which the contributions to having a representative rest. So I wouldn't attack and I won't allow this law to be attacked from the position of reducing the standards of governance and that quasi tripartism that has been nominated so far. And I think these are quite neat solutions. In fact, in the proposal we have what is being introduced everywhere, we have a representative of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and what you would say is a large company over 3,000 employees. And I think they should have a representative in the board. Of course, pensioners are life-interested and we are in coordination with pension societies, so I know that everyone has agreed that it should be a reduction from three to two members of the board and that everyone has accepted this rationalization in some way. And yet it's a better situation because here we're going to have of 9 at least we're going to have 5, at least 5 fuses that should take care of what awaits them in the future. So I think this is just as much as it might work at first sight reduction I think it's a good solution. As far as the Medical Engineering Center is concerned, It's okay. There should, of course, raise it to a higher level of medical skills disability, make it more transparent, make it in some way make procedures and methods standardised, and it can if it's not too decentralised to be medically artificial. So we can also coordinate methods and procedures and standards if he knows what the right is doing. If every district office works, it's certainly not going to be run by its medical skills policy. And one remark. You know, like we did when we were buying diplomas, we found those who were selling it. But we don't know who fake diplomats are, or academic citizens, and we don't know what they're going to be or what they're users of fake pensions. So there must be still something to do in the revision process. Of course it's a crime, but it's all about judicial proceedings, and I think it should go a lot simpler. But that's probably what the minister said we'd do in the second part of the year. As for the commission that will be located at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, I would not be in the minister's shoes right now. He has drawn a lot of itch because it will be a focal point for him to solve any problems and unifications and standards and whether the second-degree procedure will confirm first-degree or be different opinions. Therefore, I certainly acknowledge the minister and the courage and determination that this, to combat this problem because the problem objectively exists. But in advance, I tell him it's probably not gonna be easy for him and that you've got a lot of itchy itch in here, and that's for sure in the future. Of course, here the minister said the director would be a medical profession. However, it cannot be written in the law what if, the deputy that will be medical professions. What if the competition, the public tender for the principal, is a medical profession, so why shouldn't it be the other way around? So, the law will not prescribe that explicates must be a medical profession, but will allow this combination. This is, I think, more or less said for saying, that is, to prove the need for a director who would be more committed to a part of the pension insurance system. Of course, the call for a public tender for HZMO director is quite significant because we cannot put in the same thread, for example. The Croatian Employment Service, although employers there are paying contributions to unemployment, is not the same story. We can treat him as a state office of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office as a public institution and it is always owned by insurance and pensioners. He's not a fund that accumulates funds and fertilizes funds. It is a place where payment control of contributions creates a level of rights that will depend on what our economy will be like to pay at the time we retire, but we create conditions for that level of right to be in a certain relationship with an average salary. I have often explained to our pensioners and workers that there is no fund called the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute where we invest money and who is waiting for us when we retire but for the ongoing work to finance pensions, let it be 21 or 23 billion, as the minister said, but current work, living work finance the payment of pensions in these relations. And secondly, I don't think anyone has the right to tell the pensioners that they should be grateful for these other 17 billion that are allocated from the state's tax revenues because these are all rights based on certain legal regulations. After all, the law was passed by the Croatian Parliament, and the laws were proposed by the ministry's resolution or the resolution ministries because they are both defenders and all the special categories that are not all privileged. We can't say that the workers who were exposed to asbestos are privileged, we can't say that the pensions of the Labin miners are privileged. The state solved either economic problems or socio-health problems, and that's what people cost me. Therefore, I would like to say the selection of the director or, in some way, the call for a public tender for the selection of directors, I think a good contribution to the strengthening of the position of HZMO as a public institution. I do not want to say that I agree and that I will sing praises to this institution, I know other solutions in which other European solutions have, for example, and double administrations so that political administrations, e.g. one such institution can never impose a certain solution on the technical administration, however much politicians or social partners agree. There's a pension insurance system that no one has the right to violate because he definitely has his own legality. Of course, I look forward to how the minister has now announced that in the second part of the year we start talking among other things with a whole new law because the law has had a lot of changes. Not because of the reform of the pension system as much as because of transparency because of the clarity of the law itself, but I look forward to what our proposal is for us to recapitalise this pension system for the sake of justice, to introduce a full-time employment category when the worker will be able to retire regardless of the years of life, without being life-longly retired, not prejudged that it must be 40 years because we need to understand that the life span of our citizens has grown significantly since the moment we laid the foundations of the pension insurance system. The HSU Club will support this bill because we think it is essentially good and it is primarily about technical changes, and certainly not about some major changes in content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10789	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the views of the HDSSB club. will be released from the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10790	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. First of all, I am pleased that Minister Mrsic is already through several legislative proposals that he brings here and comes to defend himself that we have noticed that the increasingly rare practice is, the increasingly frequent proposals that come on behalf of other ministries are coming to defend deputies, assistants. If this trend continues soon, the heads of departments and services will also come on behalf of the ministries to defend the proposals before the Croatian Parliament. In some ways, this shows the government’s relationship to what the Croatian Parliament is supposed to decide. Well, on this side, I am glad that the minister comes systematically from his ministry and defends himself before the Croatian Parliament and the explanation. As far as this amendment is concerned, we will agree with it because there are several logical changes. We're not very happy with the introduction of deputies, but let's just say the current government has a right if it thinks the HZMO leader needs a deputy. However, all these other changes that are listed are logical and actually meaningful and will not harm, but will in some way benefit from the functioning of the pension system and also the introduction of severances into the wage bill, also the possibility of introducing pensioners into the conduct of seasonal affairs. Although I would say now the economic situation is what it is but all trends and all indicators clearly indicate that in the coming years Croatia will have major problems with labour shortages, regardless of the current unemployment situation. When the cycle changes over ten years we'll have a problem with labour shortages. The labour force will have to be imported greatly. On the other hand, we have an army of pensioners and a large number and an disproportionately large number of pensioners who have extremely low pensions. And many of them, if there were an opportunity, would not go back to the factories, but if there were an opportunity and a legal framework that is still missing today except now opening up for seasonal affairs, they would be very happy to do certain jobs, one hour or two a day, one week or a month. I think it will certainly need to think about opening up space and the possibility for pensioners to be able to participate in that labour market, and without their pensions being threatened in any way, that this work is equally normalised, that it is taxed, and that their pensions remain because there is certainly a large space for Croatia to reach when it comes to pensioners. These are people with great experience and great knowledge and rich experience and many abilities, and many in previous years have left very early in what early retirements are still quite vital today. Therefore, this space will certainly open and Croatia will certainly be better off to take advantage of, and on the other hand, it will increase its revenues to use the resources it now has than to bring in the same people, and it will bring them in and import them. So that's how this step is now about introducing, so providing seasonal work to pensioners is one right step. Of course, once again, this must not and should not in any way endanger their status or their pension. Now, as far as medical warlocks are concerned, maybe this is an opportunity, here's life that made me work as a medical expert at some stage, maybe this is an opportunity to say something about medical witches. And this topic as well as many other topics looks quite different when from the top of Sljemen and from the top of Papuk, it looks quite different from the position of the City of Zagreb and from the position of the rest of Croatia, and from Slavonia as well as other smaller environments. Why is she different? It is different because in all the counties, in Požega-Slavon County from which I come, you have one pensioner, in Brod-Posavina two, in Vukovar-Srijem two, in Virovitica-Podravska one. When you come to Zagreb for first-degree retirement disability insurance, I think it happens in the Company, you have 10, 20 doors, unknown people, so it's kind of anonymous in a way guaranteed. These experts in our counties half the county residents know who the expert is, when he was born, where he lives, who his children, where his father is from, therefore there is no anonymity in small counties in Croatia. Everyone knows who's an expert in pension disability insurance, who's that person that's gonna get their case. It's not corruption, it's a problem for those people who do that job and it's not easy for these people. They went to school with one, live with the other, have a family, meet with those people, and live. One option is certain as no one is a prophet in their village so that these witches do not work where they live and where they live. That's one problem. The other problem with the work of these witches was their extremely low wages. For many years, for years, and today it is still not harmonised, they have been significantly less paid than doctors in the health system have paid. And the work is indeed heavy, responsible and ungrateful for those people who do it. Which is the problem of art, and yes, it is also mentioned, here is Mr. Hrelja mentioned that we are not fooling ourselves about how the state solved its economic and social problems in some phases of retirement. Well, it was getting rid of, yeah, we heard it was getting rid of it. And of course, that's how models were created, images, depictions of certain injustices, do you think you're doing justice to one group, you're doing injustice to another group, and that injustice brings the next injustice. How to tell a person that persons b i c are going to retire, someone disabled, or it's now the interest of this county. How do you say that to that witch? Once it was done, that vicious circle kept spinning. Well, if he did it for the interest of his community, he wouldn't be interested in his neighbor. And that's how we created, created, and then there's this case coming up here and there, the guy with the Rubalo case. It's actually the tip of the ice dream of this whole system problem. What's the problem with second-degree art? That's always been a problem. We can establish a center for medical art, we can establish whatever we want center, the problem of skill in the second degree has always been that these skills in the second degree came with papers, but it's not a sick paper or a medical report, it's a sick man, and however much paper comes to art in second degree they very often talk about a sick or healthy man at all. You can artificial paper as much as you want, but you need to see a man, and that's always been a problem with those second-degree skills. To talk about some standardisation of art processes is an illusion because the Republic of Croatia has not even been able to standardise treatment procedures, let alone that it will now standardise articulation procedures. So it's about the witches, and I think I made myself clear. Witches rotate, witches rotate, witches pay better in the first degree, that's the only way. So total of this proposal, as it stands now, the HDSSB will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10791	Thank you very much. So we've exhausted all the applications for a club debate and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is Honorable Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10792	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. I would see this law as one way to open our labour market, so above all and to align it with the existing legislation on the promotion of employment, but then also as a measure of opening the labour market. How? In fact, occasional work as well as volunteering for pensioners is a trend that is increasingly present in the Western world and in Europe if you want to because faced with ageing populations, but also with better medical care, healthier lifestyles, etc. Many people are going to retire more vitally and still ready to work and are still willing to contribute in some way to their community. How do they do that? Most often by volunteering, so through different NGOs and so forth, but sometimes by work. Of course, this work is appropriate for their age, their obligations, their desires because these people have done their working life honestly. So they retired after they met all the conditions, but in some ways they want to remain active, working active, with the natural consumption of their pension rights. I see this law as a measure to enable pensioners to do just that. So that they are legally working on their pension without having to freeze their pension, so temporarily giving up on it. This is particularly important for seasonal affairs, if we are talking about agriculture, if we are talking about tourism, but if we are also talking about a number of other economic activities. Unfortunately, many of our pensioners may be motivated to consume this mode of work because of low pensions. It is a Croatian reality, a sad Croatian reality. We can ask why so, here are the colleagues who had discussed it on behalf of the clubs and talked about it, but this measure will certainly go towards improving the standards of pensioners. So, in a legal way I can earn something, it means I have certain incomes with my pension. Allow me a few more references in general to our pensioners and the situation in our pension system. In fact, it is surprising that a large number of new pensioners leave each year for a disability pension. In Croatia, this percentage is higher than 12%. I did some research on what the European average is, it usually moves around 6%. In Croatia, then, the number of pensioners leaving for disability pension is double the number of pensioners. If we count that the Croatian average means people who die every year about 60 thousand then we come up with a figure that goes to a disability pension of 7,200 people a year. You will agree that this is a really large number and again the question is why, as possible and I think that the measures prescribed by this law regarding medical skills will help to reduce that figure. I would also warn, so perhaps one suggestion from the Minister for Future Legal Solutions, but certainly something to consider is the fact that those who go to a disability pension never come out of it. In what way? So if they are prematurely retired because of disability, a certain degree of disability, they remain in disability pension after 65 years after all conditions are met. So my suggestion is for the minister to also try to regulate it, that is, to address the problem. Therefore, I see this law as a alignment with the existing legislation that we have brought to this assembly in this House, but also as a new step in Croatian practice to enable people who have their incomes to work in a legal way and thus make money paying contributions and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10793	On this exhibit we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10794	Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, I wanted first to correct the incorrect quote of my HDSSB colleagues, but you reiterated the story that the work of the pensioners should be made possible. The work of pensioners is possible without freezing pensions, it is possible under the Law on Contributions. Namely, if a pensioner does not have to freeze his pension and doesn't pay his contributions then, he only pays taxes. It's one solution that's already in practice. However, there is another problem. Here we have a problem that then labour inspections have a rigid interpretation of whether he can work because the resources are in his possession or not? I mean look, if the market, I think that part should be liberalized not because the work of the pensioners is cheaper than objective if there is a need for their work experience and skills then it should be possible. Of course, it may be necessary to consider enabling them to pay contributions if they want to improve their pension because every payment of contributions as well as those in the seasonal work in agriculture after a certain period of time accumulates certain pension rights. But the fact is that the work of the pensioners is possible by means of a contract of action, only we have to sort out these rigid positions of inspection, which should make it a little easier, or in some way, to bring about a relationship with reality. And even disability pensions based on professional ability can work without having to freeze retirement. So there are these possibilities, but I agree with you that we can re-analyze it and in some ways make it more transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10795	Now the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10796	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of the Hrelja, I actually think we're on the same track because I was talking about that in my opinion this law will open the labour market and the pensioners in one better way as a better legal solution than ever before. So basically we agree. This applies especially to pensioners who have retired so before reforming the pension system because these are all honest people who regularly paid their contributions, and eventually ended up with a pension that is unrealistically small. The other thing is that those of us who are saving now in the second pillar or third pillar depending on us will have as much pension as we save, we understand that. However, those who have retired in a different way are not and therefore I think that these people should be allowed to participate in the labour market. So, I'm sure they have expertise, many of them and the will to still be active at work, and I agree with you that there is certainly a need to correct this rigid attitude of labour inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10797	The individual debate continues with the speech of the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the name of the MP club, what is already said is what is positive in this and otherwise any changes to the law that goes in a positive direction we welcome it. At first it was said that 27% of all pensioners were from the category of disabled pensions and it was a real problem even if I heard well we are a unique example of this issue in the world. What is more new in this change is the Center for Medical Skills, which, in the explanation, states the Malta does not guarantee that it will now be done more honestly and that everything will be under control, that it will be a guarantee of quality and fair work. However, it is definitely not and I will now repeat yesterday's statement from Mrs. Ruža Tomasic when she said that we lack one law that would regulate that everyone must report themselves when they do not act by law. And so this, this former version, now already the former version, since this will certainly be voted today, is not by itself a guarantee of dishonesty or unfair work, but it is about people who do it and people who do it. That's why he showed up now and now not to tell Dr. Rubale's case, but maybe it's not bad to have a sound name like that in that story. A colleague, Djurovic, is on behalf of the club and counterpart Silvano, a colleague of Hrelja, has raised the same question that, by solving certain groups of people through a let's say system. Although there, a colleague named Hrelja cited positive examples such as miners, but we had in history and those extremely negative examples. So, let's say on advertising boards in certain companies, it was said that workers were invited to report for retirement. So, that's another proof that it's not regulations itself, it's not always problematic, it's a way of implementing and even more control of the implementation of a regulation. Mr. Minister mentioned the rationalization of the Governing Council from 13 to 9, which is not how important it is, but in order to rationalise it is not the introduction of a new job that is a deputy. Where a colleague of the Hrelja states that it is not necessary to be a health profession, there can be any other profession. This may be because you are more often distracted from the government's opinion, so you are not well informed. Maybe you even know what professions. What I'm having a problem with is that it's an undefined number of assistants. How can you agree on some plan of work, a business plan of any institution, any company, if you have no defined systematization, the number of jobs, or the wage mass. Is there room being created that the wage mass will remain the same, but it will then be reduced to some lower positions, I don't know, because the assistants are probably getting better paid after all. Also, unannounced that pensions will comply with the new law, and probably will, I have no doubt in your statement and good intentions on this matter at all. The only problem is, you should live until then, because this fall has already happened and it's already going on. And now to the adoption of a new downfall law that you mentioned of 10%, and I think it's even bigger in the pensioners. It's definitely that group that's the most endangered, maybe even the biggest problem, not maybe, but safe. And you mentioned the introduction of a new tripartite body, if I remember correctly the National Council for Retired, right? It will consist of representatives of pension societies, government representatives and representatives of parliament. This is a bit of irony, I hope that I will not make a proposal to appoint through the Committee on Elections and Appoints, since we have a practice for the committee to do so outside the board members, that is, the chairman of the Committee does so on its own and then retroactively informs us with an anti-dated memo. This doesn't go on to you anymore, this goes on to something else, but connected comfortably with a useful one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10799	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Next line's next. Excuse me, Mr. Hrelja's replica. [[Intruder: Replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10800	Well, dear colleague Novak, I really don't see where I'm at with the minister's opinion, of course we'll never have the same opinion, because it's so human. We have the right to different views, and to both the pension system and life, so on and so on. Therefore, I commended the very fact that you understood, as the Croatian Labour Club, that a good solution in Article 2 of this law in which contributions result in certain pension laws. And I really don't mean it. It's not about any deviation, I don't have to agree to anything with the minister or you or anyone. I'm a good student and I know this pension system, but one day this law is good and it offers good solutions and what I should have kept quiet that this possible deputy will be in the case of a medical profession. If a principal’s invitation to tender did not appear and did not qualify as a medical profession, in that case it would likely be someone who was an expert in pension insurance. So, I don't see any deviation, and it's not even an excuse, but because of the provocation that must be an integral part of the political action in the Croatian Parliament, I'm raising this replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10801	Dear Mladen Novak will respond to that replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10802	Thank you very much. Since you yourself said this was a provocation, we'll give it back to you in the same way. The law on tripartiteness or what you called it a little differently has made it clear that you are in some ways on different roads from the government, or you have different thoughts. As much as you stood up to yourself pretty loud, pretty loud, and it's nice to us, but if you hadn't done that, maybe in these materials you'd get the name of the person for whom it was intended. You might be a little bit, a little bit, not too many people of trust, so maybe it's for those reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10803	We continue with an individual debate for which she has applied and a distinguished representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. But since she hasn't lost her right to discuss this matter. So this right comes next in line, declared for the debate, distinguished counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10804	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me answer to Mr. Hrelja. I understood the same good intensities of this law. And I think there are a few things that this bill solves for the benefit of the pensioners. First of all, it's a very good thing, the best thing is that the severances are going into retirement mass. I think it is a corrected mistake all these years ago and that it will at least raise the level of too small, too low pensions in Croatia. The next good positive thing, although Mr. Hrelja had previously interpreted that it had been possible before, but that it was still disabled by inspection services to additional pensioners, i.e. work not to freeze the peace of wine. This is primarily helping pensioners who are still in the life force, and we see it on average, after years of retirement in Croatia very much. Low-priced peace, some of the pensioners will be able to fix their home budgets by additional work. One of the proposals in the law, in fact the reasons of the law, are said to allow for the objective determination of health conditions. It is certainly necessary because of what we know, I will mention again a name that is often mentioned. I don't think that's corny. That's Dr. Rubala, with that name being mentioned for 20 years. That name was known by everyone in the health system, not by the fact that he was a doctor and that he was an entertainer at various radio and television stations, but was just a public secret that he arranged for a certain amount of first marks, then Swiss and euro early retirement. One of the most important things is precisely that objectively determining the health situation and if it succeeds in this law and if this government manages to make it have as little as possible, because it is impossible to say in the most democratic countries, say North Europe, and there are, but a very small number of cases if it manages to pass on to a minimal measure that it will certainly contribute very much to the first justice, and the other will contain one form of corruption. One thing I don't agree with is the minister's explanation that 19 billion are being raised for pensions and 17 billion are being given by the state. The state doesn't give, the state always returns. It's not the state's money. It's taxpayer money. It's money and these pensioners, and it's worth mentioning what Mr. Hrelja was saying to me. In the 1990s, pensioners had just taken out a large part of the burden on their backs when they were cut off for the pensions they said went to a part of the money went to the defense of the Republic of Croatia, and part of it went to the old Croatian habit in the pockets of many people who called themselves the pillars of society. So I don't think we give the pensioners anything, we give them nothing, we give them back. And I'm sure it's comforting that Mr. Secretary said it would be a pension adjustment. Here's one good news on Friday, not today 13, but the good news is that it will be and I hope we can hold you to our word, that this government will keep that promise because the pensioners are certainly getting harder and harder to live for, and we all know why. So, even when you mention the rationalization that allows this law to be absolutely certain that the government has the right to a completely new structure. I don't think it's such a big problem to introduce a deputy director by explaining that he's going to run a media, medical art center, not media. I'm in some other law, I guess. In addition, this reduction in the number of plans of the Governing Council from 13 to 9 and the composition of the Council does not even matter how many members of the Council are and what composition they are in if there really is a dialogue between the social partners. Therefore, I think this law brings good things and that it is moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10805	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Branko Juričev- Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10806	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today, on our benches, the final draft law on amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act is, as usual, in this session of the Assembly in an emergency procedure. We will agree that this law should be urgently harmonised with the provisions of the Employment Encouragement Act, the Law on Contribution, the Labour Act and the Law on the System of State Administration, and even the urgency of reducing the number of members of the Governing Council of the Institute to rationalise costs is justified. However, through this law, the proposer, through these justified changes, could not resist, missed the opportunity to open the space urgently for his new staff. It would have been less hypocritical if this government hadn't boasted that there were a third less secretaries and directors than the previous one, and the truth is that this government reduced the number by 80, and already by establishing a new and one agency, one office and one centre allowed more than 90 to be taken care of, and thus passed the figure calling the previous government. But it's still going. Thus, this law introduces a new job as deputy director of the office, which of course is appointed by the Government on the proposal of the minister. I wonder what will happen next to one or more assistant directors of the office another deputy, in particular by stating in the explanation that the plan is to reduce the number of staff in the retirement office, leaving the office, and by not hiring new workers? What kind of cost rationalization is that when we need a smaller number of employees? And that satisfaction will, of course, be paid by our citizens at over 300 grand a year. This law provides for the establishment of a new center called the so-called "Current Centre". An art center that will likely have its principal, its deputy, one or more assistants. The applicant does not write anything about these costs. What is a cost rationalisation and a savings of only 70,000 a year is a reduction in the number of members of the board of directors from 13 to 9. But the citizens need to be told that the government and the ministry's proposal didn't save on themselves so that someone wouldn't think so. No, they'll just as well as assume they'll save on others. Thus, the number of members proposed by the minister remained the same 4 and another representative of the institute was added. While the number of members proposed by insurance associations, employers and pensioners are renamed and reduced from 9 to 4. The law also states that the President of the Governing Council must be someone proposed by the minister. And so here we are and in the emergency procedure another new centre, one new deputy, and in the next emergency procedure for this center another director, deputy, one or more assistants then members of administrative and professional councils probably all with compensation. Next on the Parliament's agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during the unemployment that also brings the paper and that the Head of the Institute may have one or more assistants. And so on. It's probably one of the models the new government plans to reduce the number of its unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10807	Thank you. We will also hear another individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10808	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here we have heard during the debate so far that this urgent change of law is primarily conditioned by harmonising with other laws, the Law on Employment Intervention and the Law on Contributions, and therefore we can consider them to be to a large extent one technical intervention in the current text of the law. In addition to this harmonisation, there are other changes that are not merely technical in nature and which should be supported in a particular section. I personally support this part relating to the fact that this law allows severances to be included in the basics for calculating the amount of pensions and that is a good thing that this law does anyway. A reduction in the number of members of the Governing Council, except as it will reduce the costs of the functioning of the Governing Council, do not see any particular necessity, moreover, as this reduction takes place at the expense of the social partners, so on the expense of trade unions and employers, and on the other hand, brings more influence from the government when deciding on HZMO's work clearly and thus a greater impact on the work of the Pension Insurance Office itself. I would like to agree with my colleague, Martinchev, when speaking and problematizing the introduction of the Deputy Director of HZMO, which is more so when we see it in the context of another law which is also in session of the Assembly and concerns the amendments to the Employment Intervention Act where the whole amendment of the law comes down to only one article that introduces the Deputy Director at the Croatian Employment Office. Therefore, we can read this as a wish for ruling people to find out in a certain way how their members or party-like officials have already been said before, and here I am two months ago in the current morning asking whether the amendment of the State Administration System Act has reduced the number of state officials or has been increased. And since then, in only two months here, we can note that only in the ministries have appointed 20 new government officials, so today that number is about 126 over 85 government officials. But what I want to say and I support what the minister said is that in the autumn, a systematic amendment to the law or a new law that will in a certain way mean a new reform in the pension system awaits us. I believe that reform is necessary as soon as possible. Namely, we have witnessed an unrecorded historical imbalance in the Republic of Croatia between the number of insurance companies and the number of users. According to data we have somewhere in March, there were about a million 450 thousand insurance companies, and on the other hand, a million 215 thousand persons, or pensioners, talking about 1:1.19 ratio. I say it is a historical, unrecorded imbalance and this trend would soon equal the number of pensioners in Croatia with the number of insurance companies. It is said that the sustainable pension system is the one in which a pensioner should be 2.5 insurance undertakings under such a law and that this would provide a sustainable pension system in a certain way. This means that we should have a million new insurance companies in Croatia in order for this system to be sustainable and not to allocate additional funds for pension settlement from the state budget. At this point in time, according to your words, and the fact is that somewhere around 17 million kunas are allocated from the state budget so that pensions can be paid, and that is approximately 2 government budget deficits. Therefore, the fact that there are about 17 billion or almost two budget deficits per year needs to be allocated from the state budget in order for the system to be sustainable certainly requires an urgent, rapid change of the entire pension system because I say in this way it certainly cannot be sustainable in the long term. Therefore, this announcement by Mr. Minister that somewhere in September or autumn, we would welcome the reform of the pension system and would be practically the first right to reform that this House would discuss. In fact, in the past six months of this government, we have indeed not had a single significant, important, financial, structural, social reform, and thus it is certainly welcome that Mr. Minister's statement that at least in the pension system we are expected to have real reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10809	Thank you very much. I now call upon the Minister of Labour and the Retirement System for final address.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10810	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. So to clarify the 17 billion issue, so the 17 billion we lack in the pension insurance system are not just the funds that are meant for pensions under the basic Pension Insurance Act, but these are the funds that the state has decided to give to other categories of pensioners. So those pensioners who don't go under the Pension Insurance Act said no matter how much you single out and how much you work, you'll have that pension. So out of those 17 billion 4 billion go for the Pension Insurance Act because we need 23 billion, and the rest is the one under these laws that are independent of the Pension Insurance Act, what we used to call privileged pensions. We've abolished parliamentary pensions, and they'll be coming to your benches and the Presidential Retirement Act very soon, so we're fulfilling that obligation. So these are the pensions we pay under special laws. As for the deputy, he will be regulated by the statute, there will be medical professions as defined that the Director of the Pension Insurance Office is a person of legal or economic profession, and so the deputy will be defined as being a medical profession. So we don't talk about a person or have a person to take that place. I can tell you that just given the salaries that are in the Pension Insurance Office, we will probably find a problem for that place as well as for medical professionals, and for that place we will have a problem finding the right person who will want to deal with this problem. As for the discussion of a respected MP, we don't buy chairs, we don't buy seats, we don't prey on people, and when we talk about the Pension Insurance Act itself, about the deputy, it goes after this adoption to change the organization of the Pension Insurance Office where we reduce from 158 leading places to 74 because we rationalize the entire system. And when we talk about whether it's rational for this center to start or not, that this center has very high-quality people, just to point out that the average disability pension is 2,000 kuna, if someone is enjoying an unwarranted 20 years, it's half a million kuna. Therefore, it is well-founded and justified that this centre is founded and I absolutely reject any insinuation that it is because of the love of anyone because I say, an unwarranted disability pension costs us more than 500 thousand kuna, half a million kuna, so now count on what the cost is. And as far as the Employment Service is concerned, we'll do it later on in the wheel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10811	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10812	We move to a vote on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Protocols between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic with the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic on the avoidance of Double Taxation of Income Taxes on Property, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 107. The debate on the text is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I find that the law has been passed unanimously with 111 votes in favour. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 106. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Proposal for a Legislative Committee shall give the following conclusion: It shall be determined that Article 2 will take effect. There are particularly valid reasons for the law. I'm asking that by raising my hand, we make a statement on this conclusion. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 84 votes in favour and 20 abstentions, I conclude, and then I vote on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Are there any abstentions? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes 86 for and 25 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10814	By 12 o'clock when we announce the vote, we'll be able to do another item on the agenda, the next item that we have in line because there are not many reported ones. We therefore move to - Proposal for a law supplementing the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment, first reading, PZ No. 105 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, and you received reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Minister of Labour and Pension System Dr Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10815	Thank you very much. So in principle, one very technical amendment to the law, just to point out that the Employment Service is a key institution when we enter the European Union 1.7.2013, through this institution we will correspond with other institutions in Europe, through this institution will be employed and through this institution our people will go to other countries. Since we want to edit a system headed by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System and so far the Director of the Employment Service has had assistants but has appointed them autonomously, the only change is that they will be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Labour. Therefore, we do not raise the number, but these people are there, we just want it to be the same in the system because we also want the assistants of the Pension Insurance, Assistant and other parts of the system on which this ministry is responsible to appoint the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Labour, therefore only one technical amendment. These people are already there, they're doing their job, they're just going to be named by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10816	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10817	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. There is yet another amendment to the Employment Mediation and Rights Act during unemployment, although at the moment of adoption of this law at the end of 2008, it was considered quite good because it was a satisfactory way to address the fundamental activity of the Croatian Employment Service, which is precisely the intervention between an unemployed person and a possible employer. The first amendments adopted by this Assembly in February of this year were introduced by the institution of Deputy Director of the Office, but no matter or status of Assistant Director, whose existence and role has so far been edited by an internal act or the Statute of the Croatian Employment Office. Since the Croatian Employment Institute as the leading institution in the labour market will play an important role in the next period, which is until and after EU entry, it is important to regulate its structure by law so that employment policy measures are implemented according to the highest standards of the European Social Fund. The SDP Club supports the proposed corrections by making them important and useful for harmonising our legislation and thus public institutions established in accordance with the relevant laws. The SDP Club will therefore adopt a proposal for a law supplementing the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment. Amendments to the existing law will allow for more effective action and the better functioning of an institution that is the first straw of salvation for all those found in its records throughout the country at the time of unemployment. The proposed amendments harmonize and balance the position of each other of persons acting as assistant director of the Croatian Employment Service with the establishment of a function within, for example, the proposed changes. Croatian Institute of Pension Insurance and Croatian Institute of Health Insurance which are just like the Croatian Employment Institute established as a public institution owned by the Republic of Croatia. As I have previously stated, the position and function of the director of the Croatian Employment Service has been governed by the statutes of that public institution adopted by the Law on Institutions and the Law on Employment Intermediation and Rights during unemployment. The Court of Justice determined that the assistant directors, on a proposal from the Director of the Office, should be appointed by the Government while, for example, The Pension Insurance Act stipulates that the assistant directors of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute are appointed by the Government on a proposal from the competent minister. How can we not allow two identical functions in different public institutions to be appointed by the Government on the proposal of different persons and that the issue of assistant director of the Croatian Employment Office is not regulated at all on its own behalf and on behalf of the SDP Club I welcome the amendments and additions of this law. The SDP Club will accept amendments to the Employment Intermediation and Rights Act during unemployment, which determines the role of Assistant Director of the Croatian Employment Service appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10818	Thank you, Your Honor. And now, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative, Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10819	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, here are five to twelve, what about the rate of proposed amendments to this law, so on employment mediation and unemployment rights? The bill says the office next to the principal, the deputy director, will have an unknown number of assistants. How many will be determined by the statutes, the government will appoint them on a proposal from the minister, unfortunately without a public tender. I remind you that at the end of the second month, we changed the law and introduced the Deputy Director. This change is justified by the need for more effective cooperation with the European Social Fund, but the more likely fact is that you have failed to house all political counterparts in public enterprises, institutions, institutions, agencies, and you need to change the laws to open up space for new posts to take care of them. The Croatian Employment Service is a public institution established by law. It is particularly important for the Republic of Croatia and its citizens and can be established that the existing organisation and results so far have fully enabled the completion of the basic tasks of the Institute. For example, last year, over 185 thousand citizens were employed through the intervention of the Croatian Employment Service. The implementation of active measures covering a range of actions under the National Employment Encouraging Plan in 2011 covers 34 000 persons with these measures and is paid under the basis of the 281 million kuna. The special importance of the Croatian Employment Service provides services to employers, which is also a fundamental task of the HZZ, to make quality communication between labour market participants and actively improve the system of supply and job demand. The exercise of the right during unemployment is also one of the most important, or if not the most important tasks the HZZ performs. But precisely in the area of projects supported by the International Community, HZZ has so far shown a high degree of efficiency. HZZ also participates in three IPA components, transition assistance, strengthening institutions, cross-border cooperation and development of human potentials. Within these components, many projects have been implemented without deputies, without assistants, without unnecessary bosses mostly highly positioned. This confirms that this change has nothing to do with improving the efficiency of HZZ's work but only opening up a new space for the care of political counterparts. But given this, if the government considers this to be important to these changes to the functioning of HZZ and the state, I don't really know why it wasn't a suggestion that a law like any law so far wouldn't go into emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-29-0.u10820	Thank you, Your Honor. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when we get the terms, or a little later. The following is the proposal for a law supplementing the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment, first reading, P.Z. No. 105. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law on the completion of the Employment Intervention and Rights Act is adopted during unemployment. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. By raising our hands, may we please state who is to suggest a conclusion? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 78 votes, 30 against and 3 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
