ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10285	In accordance with the agenda and the notifications you had at the end of the session. On the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 99. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments to the proposal for a law may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Justice. Reports of working bodies received at the session. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia want to give an introductory explanation? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Justice of the Republic of Croatia respected Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10286	... The constitution and laws and international legal acts have significantly strengthened. [[Specially enabled.]] The Constitution provides that anyone may appeal to the Advocate General if he considers that his rights have been violated as a result of the illegal or irregular work of the state authorities. It is also determined that the Croatian Parliament is elected by the occupier in time of 8 years and that the occupier is independent and independent in his work. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The Constitution of the conditions for the selection and resolution of the Advocate General and his deputies, as well as the detour and mode of work, shall be governed by a special law. And finally, according to the Constitution, the Ombudsman and his attorneys have immunity as representatives in the Croatian Parliament. These amendments to the Constitution resulted in a proposal for the adoption and adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman in the Assembly in October 2011. And the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman was also the subject of negotiations and consultations with the European Commission which insisted that a law be passed which would be in line with the extended powers of those constitutional provisions. However, the law adopted on 21 October 2011 did not enter into force, as, in the meantime, the Constitutional Court's decision of 15 February 2012, the Constitutional Court found that the law was not passed by the necessary majority, i.e. as an organic law, was not passed by a prescribed majority, most of the votes of MPs in the Assembly. Therefore, the constitutional decision of February 2012 states that the law previously adopted in the Assembly in October 2011 cannot enter into force. And we have now proposed the adoption of a new Law on the Ombudsman, where we have implemented all those obligations to bring the constitutional, the extension of the constitutional powers of the Ombudsman and his status, with the law as proposed. We have stepped up and coordinated the pro-active role of the Ombudsman in certain provisions and norms in the sense that it is an independent and independent institution that promotes fundamental human rights. The conditions, procedures for selecting the attorney general and his deputies, their powers and duties have been laid down. The proposal also contains procedural provisions on how to deal with complaints from citizens. A procedure based on complaints or on an initiative by the Advocate General has been arranged. In its conduct, the Ombudsman may carry out a shortened procedure or test procedure, depending on the fact that a substrate listed in the complaint is authorised in accordance with the legal, or constitutional extension of its institution. In addition, this bill provides for the merger of the Centre for Human Rights with the Office of the Attorney General in order to strengthen the promotional role. It was also arranged to set up a council on human rights and what is finally the most important, we have approached a concept that is not in this bill, which does not provide for the merger of the Office of Special Advocates with the Office of the Public Advocates. This provision of the previous law that did not enter into force was the subject of many discussions and reflections, and we have adapted to the starting point that is most important in this segment. Therefore, in the regulation of the defence system, they should not be primarily organisational or formal reasons, but should primarily be decided by the basis of the interests of individual citizens and the need to protect their rights, i.e. by means of possibilities to exercise or protect their rights in an appropriate and accessible manner. It is precisely the possibility of protecting the fundamental rights of the vulnerable groups in an appropriate and accessible way through the work of the special defenders that the concept of such an establishment by the Ombudsman, separated by the offices of the special Ombudsman in the law, is being retained, or we propose an arrangement as we have proposed. Objections in the sense that the merger of the Ombudsmans may be an economically justified or thriftful category or so, are not found justified because of our analysis which we have carried out and only the merger of requests of certain costs which then raise the question that mathematical mergers bring about some savings. We know that it is not simple and that this process of merger on the other hand also requires certain costs. Objections at the level that a decision on the non-compliance of individual lawyers is made in order to protect their status or perhaps their person is inappropriate in view of the fact that the work of an individual Ombudsman is absolutely recognised not only in the domestic contexts but also in the international context and as such commended and appreciated. In addition, no specific objections or instructions on the organisational structure of the special Ombudsman are put in consultation with international institutions in relation to the Office of the Public Prosecutor. On the contrary, the level achieved by the work of individual defenders is to be maintained in order to protect the rights of individuals, i.e. fundamental human rights. In addition, the independence of these institutions is an important category that should certainly be retained and if any setback is achieved, that is, organisational interventions represent a category which, in terms of protection of human rights, is not positive but on the contrary. Respecting the long-standing successful actions of the special defenders, their visibility and visibility, and respecting the obviousness of such institutions and other non-governmental institutions that recognise their work, we conclude that the decision to retain the existing legislative arrangement of the system with the Ombudsman and the special defenders for children for gender equality and persons with disabilities is justified primarily because of the need of citizens in respect of which the institution of the Ombudsman and the establishment and functioning. Therefore, the proposed law creates an appropriate regulatory framework to further strengthen the protection and promotion of fundamental rights in Croatia with a particular emphasis on particularly sensitive social groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10287	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister of Justice. Do the representatives of the working bodies, the committees want to take the floor? Here you go. Honored representative Ruza Tomasic on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed Law on the Ombudsman at its 9th session held on 20 June 2012 with the final draft law to be delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 14 June 2012. The Committee considered this final draft law as a parent working body. The opinion and proposals for amendments and additions to the text of the final draft law were submitted by the Advocate General. The majority of the committee members in the debate supported the adoption of the contested Law on the Ombudsman, with several proposals being made to improve the proposed text of the law. Thus, when it comes to the right of the Advocate General to access information and insight into the data and documents of the body on whose work the complaint has been filed, it is expressed the opinion that the provision which regulates this right in the final proposal of the law of Article 9 is more restrictive than the provisions on which the issue is governed by the applicable Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of '92. the year as well as in the 2011 Law on the Ombudsman, which by the Constitutional Court decision could not enter into force before the majority of the votes of all MPs were adopted. As regards the resolution of the Advocate General before the end of the time he was elected, it was warned that the final proposal for the law provided for in Article 14 in case circumstances arise under which the Advocate General no longer fulfils the conditions laid down in the law for his choice, and in the event that he is prevented from carrying out his duties for a period of more than 6 months. However, there is no possibility that the Ombudsman may be dismissed even in the event that he does not perform his duty in accordance with the law. It is estimated that such an option should also be laid down, in particular if there is an insight into the fact that the mandate of the Advocate General lasts for 8 years and that its possible unconscious and unlawful performance in such a long period of time may have serious consequences for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. It stressed that any possibility should be ruled out by the Advocate General for political reasons, i.e. because of objections to the work of the state and other bodies that he warns of the causes of the problems he faces by promoting and protecting human rights and freedoms. Therefore, its independence and independence in the work guaranteed by the Constitution and by law must in no way be questioned. In this respect, the opinion was also expressed that it should be examined to establish by law that both the election and the possible resolution of the Ombudsman's staff need, instead of the ordinary majority, a qualified majority. Therefore, most of the votes of the total number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament would be to some extent a protection against abuse of the legal possibility of resolution before the end of the term of office. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority vote, 7 for and 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the Ombudsman, with the following amendments to the text of the final draft law. Amendment 1 in Article 14(2), delete the word ‘or’ and, at the end of the word ‘month’, add the words ‘or if it does not perform its duties in accordance with this law.’ The reason is that the final draft of the law provides for the possibility of discharging the Ombudsman before the expiry of the time he was elected in case circumstances arise under which the Ombudsman no longer fulfils the conditions laid down in the law for his election and in case he is prevented from performing his duties for a longer period of more than 6 months. However, it is not possible for the Advocate General to be dismissed in the event that he does not perform his duty in accordance with this law, and the amendment therefore proposes to supplement Article 14(2) of the final proposal of the law. In Article 26(4), paragraph 2, the word “will” is deleted and the word “can” is added instead. Explanation. As an independent and independent body, the Advocate General should have the freedom to assess when he or she will initiate criminal offences or strict criminal proceedings. Depending on the circumstances of the case, it is possible to assess that the initiation of the appropriate procedure would not be meaningful, and what has been the case so far. It is precisely the specific role of the Ombudsman as a mediator that indicates the possibility of resolving the problem in an alternative way, so there is no need to impose an obligation to initiate the procedure in all cases. In addition, the said provision of Article 26(4) is in some way contrary to the provision of Article 27(5) of the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10289	Thank you, too. Are the representatives of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Justice Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Let's discuss clubs. It is the first club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10290	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international legal act. And what tools in his work we will give to a large extent through the legislative framework depends on his efficiency. The position and reputation of the Ombudsman is not only up to him and his work, but also the relationship of the Croatian Parliament to him because this law and the election of the Ombudsman of the Croatian Parliament is part of its authority by the appointment of its pronouncing officer. And if we do not treat this institution with due attention, then those who should respond to his demands have such a relationship. It is also good to obtain the authority to initiate the procedure for assessing the consent of the law with the Constitution. And we consider that a good step. The law states that in his work, the public defender is independent and independent and that every form of influence on his work is prohibited. And I remind you that in the debate on the report by the Police Attorney, the HDZ Club said that this report was ideologically colored. What message did we send to all those who were listed in that report not to respond to requests and requests from the Ombudsman who protects and promotes human rights and freedoms of the citizens in the name and account of the Croatian Parliament? I would like to believe that such an approach will never be repeated again and that we in the Assembly who choose the attorney general who adopts the law and determines his powers and rights and prescribes the obligation of a part of the government and legal persons with public authority will not send a message that he is so ideologically colored that it does not matter if anyone cooperates with him. The law also states that the Ombudsman encourages the harmonisation of legislation with international and European standards. How many recommendations or opinions in the public defenders' reports over the past 8 years have the Croatian Parliament so far considered and adopted? We choose the Ombudsman, he works, he comes with his report, that the Croatian Parliament has opinions and recommendations, and then sometimes the Croatian Parliament received his report to the knowledge, whatever it means, sometimes adopted, depending on who the ruling majority was. And after that, almost nothing happened. In Article 15, the following This law stipulates that the Advocate General makes recommendations, opinions, proposals and warnings to the authorities, so not only to the state but to local and regional and legal persons with public authority. It is an extension of powers to local and regional self-government, which is also good progress. Furthermore, Article 17 states that "the Ombudsman can point out to the Croatian Parliament and the Government the need to adopt amendments to the law of harmonisation", which means a proposal for legislative intervention. I would be very happy that such proposals by the civil defenders do not come directly to the government or the parliament, but immediately and whenever the Ombudsman considers that they should intervene in any law and that such proposals come directly to the Government or to the Parliament, whether it is considered or not, because they would probably take it more seriously then, understand or accept its warning. In the law, there is a provision that the Advocate General in the processing of the case to request the necessary information, data, explanations, acts, determines the time limit within which the Authority or a legal person with public authority has to respond and, if it does not receive such information, it will then inform the supervisory authority. And then what? He'll notify the supervisory authority. This is Article 24. This Regulation shall enter "The bodies of authorities and legal persons with public authority are obliged to ensure that data, information, acts and answers are available." On the other hand, Article 26 states that "the Ombudsman will propose to initiate criminal, criminal or disciplinary proceedings if he finds that the rights of the complainant are violated". It's criminal, criminal and disciplinary responsibility. But what about political responsibility? If you remember the list of institutions that did not respond to the request of the Ombudsman, or did not respond until after two, three or four haste, there were 8 ministries among the first 12. Why should we give power to the attorney general to propose the initiation of a criminal, criminal or disciplinary procedure would not give authority to propose a recall procedure or the removal of the head of the body who disobeyed the request of the Advocate General? Yeah, it's the political responsibility of those who get a request from the arraignment attorney immediately. And for this reason, we have also offered an amendment to the draft law that the Ombudsman would have the right to propose such a procedure. This therefore concerns state authorities, local and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority. That we are on the verge of such reflection and the proposer tells Article 27(2) and (3) which provides for the right of the Advocate General to propose to the Head of Staff, i.e. Article 27(5), to the Head of the Authority to initiate proceedings against the responsible person of the staff or of the Deputy Chief of Staff, I presume. Therefore, the right to propose proceedings for the non-execution of the duties of officials, deputies or other persons is provided, but the leaders of those bodies who have sinned are not touched. In particular, it concerns Article 27, paragraphs 2 and 3, which says about this. If someone disobeys the request of the attorney general, he will address the supervisory authority that has been authorised to supervise, if he is silent, the Ombudsman will inform the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now let's simulate the situation to say the mayor of Zagreb. What will the government then do, seek the rightful word of the City Assembly in the City of Zagreb? Or, for example, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, what will the Government do after such notice? Nothing, because there's no authority, no power to intervene in any way. Thus, we consider these provisions to be practically ineligible, excessive, unnecessary, because they carry nothing behind them unless it is the body of the state authority that corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to anyone else for their work. Therefore, this is only taken into account when it comes to the body of the authorities who are responsible for their work or institution for their work to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and nothing further. I want to believe that the proposer of our amendment will carefully examine and understand that the issue of the political responsibility of the leader must be one of the ways that the attorney general can intervene. And our second amendment applies to the new article 34, we propose an addendum to a law in which criminal sanctions would be imposed and that: (a)against those or those who do not respond to the requests of the Advocate General and his requests by introducing fines from 1000 to 5000 kuna and those who prevent or prevent him from applying to the Ombudsman in the amount of between 2000 and 10,000 kuna. In fact, the attorney general had a carrot in his work so far and only a carrot on a long stick. We believe that the attorney general should get in the hands and the beating because the carrot has shown is not enough, and the beating always combined with the carrot gives more results. And I want to believe that, and that kind of approach will remove any thought that, at any time in the report of the Ombudsman, we are discussing it in ideological colors. These two interventions, these two amendments to the bill have only one objective, to remind us that it is about the authority of the Croatian Parliament we choose, whose work, mode of work and authority we regulate, that it is concerned with promoting and protecting human rights and the freedom of citizens. It's too serious a subject to have a arraignment as well. The possible response that this is not a common practice in the European Union is an immediate contrast that, in some countries, there are misdemeanors, in some countries, there are some where there are public defenders rarely use it because in such situations, in such situations, the very threat of punishment by law is sometimes enough not to happen. And since we bear witness to such practice in Croatia, we believe that we must be within the circle of those countries which, in the Law on the Ombudsman, puts into hands other than carrots and beatings. And I end the following, a good step is also the possibility of opening the district office of the attorney general, which in itself, however, does not mean much, because that operational value will only be obtained in the budget, possibly rebalancing for this year or the budget for next year because opening up the district offices means increasing the budget of the Ombudsman. Is it, therefore, a serious intention to enable the Ombudsman to open the district offices to the end of the assessment of the ruling coalition's political will only through this bill but we will be able to see it if the budget provides additional funds, greater resources, regardless of whether it is rebalancing for this one, and especially in the budget for the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10291	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is SDSS club and respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10292	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The new proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman in respect of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS represents a significant improvement compared to the previously applicable law. It represents a significant improvement in two directions. First, the improvement with regard to the powers of the Ombudsman in respect of international agreements, i.e. international conventions and international laws on which the Ombudsman under this law is bound, has the right to keep those conventions and those contracts signed by the Republic of Croatia and which have become an integral part of our legislation, also closely monitors our legal order in their application and closely monitors their application. As we know so far, this has not often been the case, it has not been the case that the conventions on minority rights and on human rights and on non-discrimination have been applied by the executive authorities, whether at national level or at local level. We have very often adopted them, brought them in because we were asked to, but our intention to spend them unfortunately was not. On the basis of the powers vested in him by this bill, the Attorney General will be able to contribute more decisively, more significantly to the fact that international acts, international documents that have become an integral part of our legal traffic, actually function as an integral part of our legislation. The second thing that I think is particularly important to us in the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party is the powers of the occupier to propose, initiate and inform. As regards the proposal, so those aspects of amending the laws and legislative initiatives or amending the rules that the Advocate General receives under this law, it is a significant newspaper. And we believe that in this respect, the Ombudsman will strengthen his constitutional role, while at the same time strengthening the role of the Parliament, whose representative is, in fact, represented in legal matters and in matters of the protection of the rights of citizens, i.e. the protection of the rights of the people. In particular, it is a significant matter of proposing by the attorney general, i.e. the possibility of proposing any offence or criminal proceedings for those who are deaf or who are systematically deaf about the warnings of the Advocate General, or the Office of the Attorney General. We know that so far this has been a more or less permanent situation, that people, i.e. representatives of the state government, were, for example, in the areas of rebuilding the homes of the victims in the war or in housing programmes, or in some other issues, in fact regularly deafen themselves to the demands of the attorney general. And we, and the attorney general with this, would now have the right to propose criminal proceedings, propose a disciplinary action, propose a misdemeanour in all cases in which his reconnaissances, i.e. the findings of his office, establish that it is a serious offence which the competent authority of the state administration does not consider to be such, or does not consider such an offence, and that is in this way the Ombudsman may conclude it. Not only can he conclude, and report to this Assembly in his regular annual reports but he can turn at the same time. In other words, the Ombudsman is given the powers he has sought all these years, to which this Assembly has been deafed so far. He was deafening that in matters of legal nature he could play a more significant role than he had before. This seems particularly important to us because the number of forms of discrimination is increasing, the number of forms of inequality in Croatia. Of those who were first ethnic in nature, from those who were first sexual or age-old in nature to those who were concerned with social nature, social inequalities especially people who were jobless and also people who were employed are growing. The number of forms of dissuasion and discrimination on this basis is increasing from day to day. And in this respect, it is important that the Ombudsman has stronger and stronger powers. Now, the Advocate General, it is good, of course, that this Parliament has interrupted practice as well as this Government, that the reports of the Ombudsman are being taken into account, and not to accept them as was unfortunately the case in the past few years, or in the past two mandates of the Government, that despite the demands of this Assembly and by the Ombudsman himself, the government did not want to accept the reports of the Ombudsman, but rather took them into account. Noting this means that she did not actually respect the representative of the Parliament, the parliament's legal representative in matters of the rights of the people, in matters of citizens' rights. This change also made the conditions for a second contribution, which is that this Assembly, through its better cooperation with the Attorney General's Office, strengthens the Institute of National Service here, and at the same time the Ombudsman's Office, which is, in fact, the Attorney General and the Attorney General himself. Because that's what we need. This House may not be an opportunity to talk about it, but I will say two words and wait for another opportunity to say more about it, this Parliament must start to think about whether it has the power of the people's representation. This Assembly must begin to think right here and this should begin to speak in place when discussing the Law on the Ombudsman whether this Assembly has the will that the power of the national representation begin to practice and apply in a valid way or wherever else this power will be greater than here. Either in the media, that power will be greater, or in the executive power, that power will be greater, or in financial and capital circles, that power will be greater. And we're going to be a mockery object. If so, this should also be done here for the adoption of this important law and this important instrument of the Croatian Parliament, such as the Public Advocate, should be said. And it's time to start talking like that. Otherwise, all the criticisms that are going towards us are justified, otherwise all the criticisms including the unwitting ones are justified because we underestimate the power we have, which we must have, by the Constitution, by choice and by the will of the people, we should actually practice. And in this place, I mention it because the attorney general is one of those instruments of power and will. How's that? By bringing our power, our will, chosen by the people through the Ombudsman, back to our dissent with the actions of the government's body, in our proceedings of disagreement with the bodies of the local government's representation, and we've never done so before. We did not have such a role and such understanding of the Office of the Attorney General and the Advocate General himself in mind. And if we had this law, colleagues and colleagues, we would have allowed the Ombudsman to have at least two or three more regional offices. That there is one in Dalmatia, that there is one in Slavonia and there is one more somewhere to be seen, because it can be clearly seen by the distribution of cases where and how people suffer most when it comes to the functioning of the body of the state government and when it comes to non-compliance with their rights. But we didn't do it. We have, of course, a whole series of defenders' offices for different basics, as is modern today for both children and women and gender equality and others, but when it comes to the basic human rights corps, then we are still saving here, then we still don't want a strong and functional role of what we call a mere defender. In this sense, the SDSS wants to make it clear from this pay phone that the government should allow the Ombudsman to have offices in at least 2 or 3 other regions. Because he needs it, because in this way he will strengthen his role and thus be more accessible to people who are safe from Osijek, if they do not already have the opportunity to deal with the authorities, if they are already unemployed, if they are not already able to get full pension rights and what other employers are denying them, they certainly will not have a ticket to come here. And explained his case or filed an adequate written order of the arraignment attorney's office. In the end, my colleagues and colleagues would say one more thing about this amendment to the Law on the Ombudsman. I know there's a certain risk of being misunderstood, but I believe not too much. When changing on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, the Law on the Ombudsman for procedural errors made during its adoption in the Croatian Parliament, and when this law was already enriched and strengthened by new articles giving the Ombudsman a more significant role, then my colleagues and colleagues, in my opinion, had to change his name as well. And this stand-up logic that someone put into our legislation at some point actually needs to be changed. It's not about the people. It's about the people. There are no more cracks in Croatia, I don't know which century. In Croatia, there is a people who are sovereign and whose parliament is a sovereign representative body. And retaining this logic from a time of stalemate social relations, it assumes that actually the Ombudsman has no right in advance, which is that his power stems from the will of the people, or from the will of the national representation. And that's why my colleagues and colleagues from the SDSS club, and above all, I personally think this should have changed. I don't think there's anything wrong with your mind, but this appointment is not appropriate, it's not in the name of giving those powers he should have and that with this bill of law and its contents but finally... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10293	Thank you very much. Let's go. The next debate is the debate on behalf of the SDP club and the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Ombudsman's institution is a constitutional category that has experienced both the extension of competence and the strengthening of status for the past 2 decades. The 1990 Constitution defined the role and tasks of the Ombudsman in Article 93, but the institution only started working 2 years later after the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman in 1992. In democratic societies, a broadly accepted idea of an independent institution of a parliamentary Ombudsman protecting citizens' rights was adopted in the Croatian political system as well. The institution's independence has been stressed through parliament's relationship as a principle, established through the election procedure. Since both the Ombudsman and his deputies are appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. By means of the obligation to report to the Croatian Assembly by the Ombudsman, on an annual basis, and in specific cases, and in addition to the decision that the conditions for the selection and resolution of lawyers and deputies, as well as the partial and manner of work of the institution, are governed by the law and by the Rules of Procedure which it adopts, i.e. Parliament. The first major amendment related to the constitutional framework of the activities of the Ombudsman was introduced by the 2000 Constitution. Years. Where the competence of the civil defender is in line with the general, democratic changes and the decentralisation initiative, it is extended to protect citizens' rights from defence and security authorities, as well as to protect against local and regional self-government bodies, as well as the protection of rights to local self-government against state authorities. For the purpose of harmonising Croatian legislation with European standards, the obligation to strengthen the role of the Ombudsman is accepted. Such a request and a constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which provides that the Law on the Ombudsman and a whole series of other regulations must be brought into line with the Constitution within 6 months of the entry into force of the Constitutional Law. The amendments to the Constitution have significantly changed and strengthened the powers of the Ombudsman, by changing the Constitution of June 2010, which was functionally and statusally strengthened. Because the scope of protection of the rights of citizens, other than the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights and freedoms, and rights and freedoms established by international legal acts in human rights and freedoms adopted by Croatia, and similar formulations are also contained in Article 2 of the Law. And in terms of the framework within which the Advocate is acting. The role of the Ombudsman has also been extended to promoting human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, law and international legal acts on human rights and human rights freedoms. We clearly broadly define the subjective right to appeal to the Ombudsman whose achievement is made possible to everyone, therefore in all legal entities. The subject matter of the complaint has also been determined by extensive, illegal and irregular work before state authorities, local and regional self-government authorities and public authorities. Therefore, in all situations where a State or other unit or organisation operates on the basis of public authority. The possibility of responding to constitutional rights violations and citizens' freedoms has also been expanded through instruments that can be prescribed by law which opens up the possibility of strengthening and efficiency of the institution. The independence, of course, and the independence of the Ombudsman is guaranteed by an explicit constitutional formulation, although independence and independence has been defined as a principle in the law so far. The independence and independence is strengthened and divided by immunity to the ombudsman, and this is a valid constitutional framework for the action of the Ombudsman. As we know the new law, i.e. the Law on the Ombudsman in November 2011 which the Constitutional Court found in February 2012 that it could not enter into force because it was not adopted by a sufficient number of votes. We therefore feel that it is really necessary to pass a law as soon as possible that we have discussed and during the debate on the 2011 Ombudsman's report. We then held our hopes that the new legal text would quickly come into the parliamentary procedure encouraged by the announcement of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when giving its opinions on the 2011 Ombudsman's report that it had already tasked the competent authorities to take appropriate measures in this direction in the course of their work. We, of course, support the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman in an emergency procedure, since the role of the Ombudsman is extremely important in every orderly society. The 2010 amendments to the Constitution have expanded the role of the Ombudsman in the current function of protection and the promotion of human rights and freedoms, and in this respect the corresponding changes in the legal and sublegal regulation of the Ombudsman institution and the establishment of appropriate structures and functions for the achievement of the constitutional task are imminent. This is certainly achieved by the provisions of this bill. The proposal for this law also regulates the pro-active role of the Ombudsman as promoters of fundamental human rights and as independent and independent institutions. The conditions and procedures for the selection of the Advocate General and his deputies have been laid down, as well as the powers and duties. The proposal also contains procedural provisions on how to deal with complaints from citizens. In its conduct, the Advocate General may carry out a shortened procedure or an examination procedure. The Ombudsman may at any time review all the places where the persons are located. We support the accession of the Centre for Human Rights in the Ombudsman's Office, because the acquisition of the Centre for Human Rights and the continuation of its activities in promoting human rights is justified by a move that ensures the institutional purpose of the Ombudsman's staff, as well as the continuation of the quality of that activity by the centre. The merger of the Office and the Centre for Human Rights is one of the recommendations of the Report on the streamlining of the human rights system in the Republic of Croatia. Based on the analysis carried out, the synergy potential of these two institutions has been observed. While the centre has been developing its research activity for many years as well as the capacity to collect and explore data, and has continued cooperation with a number of civil society organisations in the field of human rights, the Office of the Public Prosecutor is in the stage of development that conditions exactly investment in these activities. Therefore, the accession of the Centre for Human Rights to the Ombudsman by taking over an institution is justified for a number of reasons. First, the 2010 amendments to the Constitution expanded the role of the Ombudsman with the existing function of protection and to the promotion of human rights and freedoms. In this respect, appropriate changes are also imminent in the legal regulation of the Ombudsman institution and the establishment of appropriate structures and functions for the achievement of the constitutional task. Second. The specific recommendations of the Sub-Committee for Accreditation and the International Co-ordination Committee of the National Human Rights Institutions of April 2008 as part of the decision to grant the Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia A of the status under the Paris principles indicate the need to expand the function, strengthen coordination, and strengthen the capacity of the Ombudsman institution in general. In this context and then, in particular, it was recommended to extend the role of the Ombudsman in promoting human rights, adequate funding to implement the institution's mandate, and to strengthen cooperation with the international system of human rights protection, promoting pluralism, and strengthening the accessibility of the institution by opening regional offices. Third. The requirements of the European Union in terms of strengthening institutional capacity and achieving results in the field of human rights, the European Union expressed the need to strengthen the institution of the Ombudsman, thereby creating additional efforts by the Republic of Croatia in meeting the conditions set out in Chapter 23. – Justice and human rights which was one of the most controversial chapters of the negotiations. In light of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia which has taken over the fulfilment of the criteria, it is of course contitio sine qua non membership in the European Union. Also in the report on Croatia's progress in the European Union accession process, which was developed by the European Commission and published by the Ombudsman institution in 2010, it has been mentioned several times in particular in terms of the need to strengthen capacity, and it has been observed that the role of efficiency of the Ombudsman is strengthened, but with insufficient human resources. The government's intention to promote the promotion and protection of human rights has been recognised, but the issues in the application of particularly length of the procedure have been highlighted, shifts in awareness and public awareness of the new Law on the Prevention of Discrimination have been made, but they are also insufficient because knowledge of the law is limited between both public authorities and citizens in view of a small number of complaints, and therefore the restriction is listed in the resources of the Ombudsman in order to achieve those functions. Fourthly, these institutions and their employees welcomed the proposals to attach the institution and attach the institution and see mutual benefit in joint human rights activities. We support further detention and the existing arrangement with the Ombudsman and special defenders. The special defences have achieved clear visibility and visibility through their actions so far. That's what we witnessed, and not long ago, discussing their work reports. By supporting the existing system, we are primarily guided by the protection of individual interests and the ability to exercise and protect our rights in an appropriate and accessible way. The practice achieved in representing interest, the special group gives us the right to do so. Consider, for example, that the protection of children's rights in Europe is dominated by just independent children's rights institutions from 39 members of the European Children's Network 22 have a specialised institution for the protection of children's rights of the parliamentary or other type. Rare cases are the merger of a child's attorney with a female female female female female female female female female female female female female female female female female. And because of everything I've listed, the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10295	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Next is the Croatian People's Party club and respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister Artuković-Kunšt, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal of one of the most important laws for one society at all. The Attorney General's Law belongs to the so-called organic laws and should, in the opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, be passed by a majority of the votes of all MPs, thus giving the Ombudsman an even stronger legitimacy. As previously said, the law is passed after the law was passed in 2011 brought to the Constitutional Court by an insufficient number of votes in the vote. Over a period of less than one year, the law not passed has undergone significant changes, primarily in the section relating to the unification of the Ombudsman's Office with the offices of the other special defenders, with a view to more or less efficiency and rationalisation of the business of all defence attorneys. We at the HNS think that the practice of the work of special defenders has shown and proved that they really need to remain completely independent in their work. Rationalisation in the case does not mean that efficiency would be increased, and conditional indetermination could in real practice lead to interference with the good practice of the work of special defenders. We also believe that additional financial but legal provisions should strengthen the positions of special lawyers in the future. We are particularly convinced that our attention, the Parliament's attention must be much more important in terms of promotion of work and recognition of the work of special defenders who should certainly continue to work actively with the Ombudsman. The occupier has and should have a constitutional position, the occupier is the highest human rights protection institution in the Republic of Croatia. The Ombudsman shall be the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion, Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms established by the Constitution, the laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia, as set out in Article 2 of the proposed law. It is certainly one of the most important and noble jobs at all, but it is also one of the most responsible jobs at all. This bill sets out that the Ombudsman has at least three deputies, at least three deputies, which allows for greater efficiency of the work of the Ombudsman in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Ombudsman promotes and protects human rights and freedoms and the rule of law, considering complaints about the existence of illegality and irregularities in the work of state bodies, the bodies of units of local, regional (regional) self-government, legal persons with public authority, and, in accordance with specific laws, and considering complaints concerning the work of legal and natural persons. It seems to us in the HNS that there is insufficient information from citizens and citizens on their real rights and on the existence and description of the work of the attorney general of the popular Ombudsman. We consider it essential to improve information and informing citizens about the activities of the Ombudsman. This should be done systematically, at all levels using all available means, knowledge and people. We think that to meet citizens as well as how they can and should protect their rights should not be unreasonable restrictions. We reiterate the recommendation that a strong promotional campaign that could be implemented in the coming years will be developed in this year based on experience. This calls on all media to immediately engage in enhanced information on their rights, particularly from the domain of protection of human rights and civil liberties, and to strengthen the work of the attorney general. It is important that the public get acquainted with Article 7 of the Law which says that the Ombudsman in his work is independent and independent, every form of influence on the work of the Ombudsman is prohibited. In the exercise of its powers, the Ombudsman shall act in accordance with the constitutional legal provisions and international human rights and freedoms acts which are part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In its work, the Advocate General shall be governed by the principle of morality and shall act impartially and in accordance with the standards of good governance. In the performance of his work in the field, the Ombudsman shall cooperate with the public, in particular with associations promoting the interests of citizens, the academic community and the media. In the performance of his work in the field, the Ombudsman may request the assistance of scientists, experts, institutions and other institutions. Furthermore, the public should certainly be alerted to Article 20. The proposal for a law which states that anyone who considers that the illegal or irregular work of the body referred to in Article 4 of this Act is threatened or injured by its constitutional or legal rights and freedoms may appeal to the Advocate General because, if it is to initiate the procedure. The Ombudsman may, in order to examine individual or frequent similar violations of constitutional or legal rights and freedom to initiate proceedings on his own initiative. If the Ombudsman intends to initiate proceedings on his own initiative or the proposal of a person whose rights are not injured for the conduct of the proceedings, it is necessary to obtain the consent of a person who is directly threatened or injured by constitutional or legal rights or freedoms unless it is a matter of protecting the child's well-being, if he has learned about the case through the media or if it is an emergency. Finally, no one should be put in a more unfavourable position or called to account for his address to the vacancy attorney. In principle, the Ombudsman makes recommendations to the public authorities and to all others who may or may not pose a threat to human rights and civil freedoms. Therefore, public support and recognition of the activities of the Ombudsman is even more important. We, in the HNS Liberal Democrats, believe that this is the role of the media, and that no responsible medium can be deafened to the work, remarks, recommendations and problems of the public defender. The Croatian Parliament and the media must be the closest allies to the work of the occupier. It is also important for the public to say that this bill provides for the merger of the Centre for Human Rights with the Attorney's Office and that the establishment of a council on human rights of the Ombudsman is envisaged. The draft law also provides for the Ombudsman to carry out the tasks of the national preventive mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel inhuman and humiliating proceedings or punishments, and in accordance with the prescribed university protocol. Looking at real life in the eyes without fooling anyone, the least of them should finally say that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the past were all but not free and that their human rights were permanently threatened. Right to the truth, right to work, right to freedom of choice, right to justice, right to equality before courts, right to information, right to education, right to freedom of movement, right to health, right to social security, the right to personal privacy, the right to equality in employment and a number of other human rights and civil liberties. Specially threatened law was the right to fair governance of the state. During the past period, countries in their institutions simply failed to perform their functions, were neither fair nor just. The HNS will support the adoption of this Law on the Ombudsman with the belief that an emergency procedure is necessary because it is still in application of the 1992 law. Human rights and living conditions in Croatia are completely different than they were 20 years ago. Meanwhile, the war ended, several times the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was changed, Croatia was robbed and socially and valuablely devastated. We couldn't even dream of it then, and today we're on the verge of joining the EU. At that time, human rights were concentrated on defending the lives of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and protecting the rights of national minorities, and today we are fighting with human rights, the right to work and restore civilization values to public life. In those days, there was still little entrepreneurship and craftsmanship, large factories were donated to tycoon privatisation and because of their irresponsibility and lack of feelings for others, not their own systematically destroyed. Today little entrepreneurship is getting smaller, craftsmanship is on its feet, big systems are on their knees. The economy has reached its bottom in the past period. Citizens and citizens are not sure about tomorrow. The new government, however, has led Kukuriku coalitions to stop a negative trend through various legal measures and improvements. With the beginning of the realisation of large investments, the necessary strong development of the economy will also turn around. But society is devastated to the very substance, so deep changes are needed in all segments of human activity, especially in the human rights segment. Every person is born with guaranteed human rights, the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security and the right to happiness, and no one can and has the right to take away anyone, and the state is there to protect those rights. By our will, once we are entered into the books of origin, we become also political beings, citizens and citizens, and by the age of 18, we become full citizens and citizens, and as citizens and citizens, we have transferred some of our rights and freedoms to the state, but our freedoms are limitless until we enter the space of other people's freedoms, and the freedom of every human being is dry. Without freedom, no other human value can be realized. Every human needs freedom to develop his talents and to achieve himself completely. Without the freedom of human spirit to land, culture and science are being abandoned, the economy is not progressing, our mind needs freedom as our body needs air to breathe. Every human being is a unique phenomenon, an individual or an individual with its own personal, unique ideas, desires and needs. At the same time, he or she is also a social being, depending on the other individuals and individuals and with certain obligations against them. The rights and freedoms of an individual or individual shall not endanger the rights and freedoms of another individual or individual. Freedom and responsibility are indivisible, together they determine the relationship between the individual and the community. Individual rights are necessary if an individual or individual wants to freely dispose of his or her personal life. Because of this freedom of opinion and expression is not only a strong moral requirement for tolerance and rule of law, it is also a path to the development of the human mind, a path based on competition, free ideas, competition of knowledge. The right to private property also falls under human rights. Without recognition of the right of ownership, many other rights cannot be exercised. Modern policy promotes equality in the initial positions of each individual, promotes competition and pluralism. This aims at free access to markets for everyone, the free market for knowledge, information, work, goods, services, all other markets. We Liberals also believe that it is necessary to release individuals or individuals from the coercion of the state and unnamed institutions so that an individual, or individual, can fully exercise his responsibilities in freedom. The individual's freedom is conditioned by responsibility to the community. The modern state encourages an increase in the freedom of citizens, i.e. citizens in all areas of life and aims to reduce the role of the state to necessity. This implies the ability of citizens and citizens to organize themselves. Contemporary understanding of the role of the state is through the protection of individual freedoms, the protection of citizens from domestic and external violence and the preservation of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and provisions. The modern state, politics, ensures that the provisions, rights and obligations apply to all, but leaves room for free decision to an individual or individuals. We Liberals believe that the state must use the starting point of human freedom and responsibility in making decisions on all areas of action for the present, but also for the future. Therefore, if it is fair, this policy refuses to bring solutions to today's problems at the expense of future generations by borrowing public finances or not caring for the environment. Because of all the above-mentioned modern democratic state, along with various other modernised institutions in terms of protecting human rights in the establishment and a very important necessary institution of the ombudsman's attorney, and therefore this bill is so important. I believe in all of us in the Parliament and in the new government that we will all uncompromisingly address all the challenges of establishing the greatest standards of human rights and civil liberties for our citizens and citizens. I hope that no amendments to our laws and regulations will be radical enough if it is guided by these highest standards. I believe our ambitions must be enormous and without limits. Everything known in terms of the highest attainment of human freedoms and civil rights must at least be our goal, and on many occasions only a starting point because for our citizens we have both the right and the duty to seek and realise absolutely and only what is best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10297	Thank you, too. The next club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is the club HSU and the respected representative Željko Šemper. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The institution of the Attorney General or the so-called The Ombudsman as they call him in Europe was created in Sweden in 1809. In most democratic, European states, the institutions of the parliamentary commissioner, mediator, the ombudsman established with the aim of protecting individuals from the poor work of the administration, i.e. poor administrative behaviour. National ombudsmen and parliamentary commissioners for human rights, mediators and persons acting in a similar capacity exist in most European countries where they oversee the work of the state administration and point to the appearances of so-called Bad administrations like that. neglect, slowness, mistakes, failures, bias, discrimination that can cause injustice or even great harm to an individual. The founding of the Croatian National Ombudsman's Ombudsman was also foreseen in 1990, so the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia then laid down in Article 93 that the Ombudsman was the authority of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, which protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in the process before the state administration and bodies with public authority. On the basis of this constitutional provision, the Law on the Ombudsman was adopted in 1992 according to the Danish model. The law lays down that the Advocate General shall consider individual cases of endangerment of the rights of citizens who, in the exercise of their duties, have caused them by the authorities of the state administration, bodies with public authority or employees in those bodies. In addition to considering individual cases, the Ombudsman shall also consider other issues which are of interest to protect constitutional and legal rights, which relate to the irregular work of administrative bodies or bodies with public authority. The law foresees the obligation of the attorney general to submit an annual report on his work to the Croatian Parliament. In the Annual Work Report according to current practice, the Ombudsman shall not only report his work but also publish information relevant for the assessment of the status of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. The Law on the Ombudsman also provides for the right of the attorney general to propose to the Croatian Parliament amendments to the law or the adoption of new laws relating to the protection of the constitutional and legal rights of citizens, but none of the three defence attorneys so far have taken advantage of it. In particular, I mean some problematic and harmful provisions of the current Pension Insurance Act. For the 2004 period In 2011, the number of complaints was gradually increased from 1653 from 2005 to 1900 from 2011. By significantly increasing the number of unfounded complaints which were lodged in 2011 by as many as two-thirds of all. During the entire period observed, around 25% of complaints remained unresolved, most often due to the silence of the state authorities. In more than 50% of the cases received, it was intervened by giving advice to the prosecutor, and other recommendations prevailed while warnings were rarely issued. It is not irrelevant to point out that during the period of term of office of the current Ombudsman, the number of employees in his office has been increased enormously. '96. – In 2004, 12 civil servants and 1 tenant were employed on average in the Public Attorney's Office, while 28 civil servants and 1 tenant were employed at the beginning of this year, and 2 other civil servants are planned to be employed. Before assessing this data, we should bear in mind that the number of complaints from the previous period has not increased more than 7% to 8%. Taking into account the number of cases in work and the number of employees, the engagement and promotion of human rights by the Ombudsman and his deputies could not be assessed better than satisfactory. Personally, 10 years ago, I referred to the vacancy attorney's non-constitutional provisions of the current Pension Insurance Act, but unfortunately I didn't get any answers. The same problem was answered by the Constitutional Court after 9 years of completion of the transitional period, and the problem was partially solved. The Croatian experience shows that special attention should be paid to the legal arrangement of the delirious institution when establishing the institution of the national Ombudsman, guaranteeing the independence of an institution which must also cover sufficient financial resources and the choice of a lawyer. When defining the Ombudsman's work, the principles relating to the status of state institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights should be set out. "Paris principles" adopted by UN General Assembly Resolution No. 48/134. December 30, '93. A year. The person's attention should be paid to the fact that the national institution of the Ombudsman is an unequivocal institution in charge of promoting and protecting individual human rights guaranteed by international instruments and national legislation. Croatian experience shows that the possibility of direct contact of citizens with the Ombudsman raises significantly the efficiency of the institution's work, contributes to the promotion of the idea of the right to protect ideas and significantly facilitates access to the institution of persons in an unfavourable socio-economic situation. The Croatian experience also shows that in the legal arrangement of the election of the Ombudsman, special attention should be paid to the procedure of determining candidates for this duty and the way they are elected. One condition is that it is a prominent expert who enjoys a reputation that has proved to be a protector and promoter of human rights and freedoms. All three occupiers so far met only the criteria of formal expertise, so 15 years of legal experience, but none of them were, at the time of the election, a particularly prominent lawyer or in public known in the field of protection of human rights on the basis of his personal claim. This means that no appointment so far has guaranteed that the chosen person will be independent and independent and will not be subject to any instructions or orders or political ambitions. At the very end of the conflicting experience of the institution of the Ombudsman, it can be concluded that in the current Croatian law there is an appropriate basis for the role of the ombudsman in the role of human rights defenders, but that during the 19 years of the existence of the institution there has been no consensus of political structures in its real action as an independent protector of human rights. However, the Ombudsman's institution contributed particularly during the '97 period. – 2001 progress in accepting the idea of rule of law and protecting human rights in the Republic of Croatia. On 15 June this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted a proposal for an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law because the Law on the Ombudsman was not in line with the constitutional changes of 2000. Although the urgency of passing this law is justified by the need to comply with the changes made to the constitutional and legal position of the institution of the Advocate General and the legitimate state reason for ensuring an adequate system of protection of the fundamental rights of citizens is, in fact, the need to initiate the procedure for selecting the Advocate General and his deputies. This bill is better conceived from now on, especially its principles. However, Article 5 of the final proposal of the Law notes that new tasks are also included in the scope of the Ombudsman, which are not characteristic of the European Ombudsman institutions, which is research-analytical activity, development and maintenance of databases and documentation. It is doubtless that the analytical materials and the relevant database, if they are professionally developed, can significantly facilitate the work of the attorney general. However, the question is whether it is your public defender who should produce such materials or whether scientific and professional institutions should do so. The answer to the question why the legislator, in part, of the Advocate General, includes and knows that it will be unusual for that institution, is found in Article 36 of the final proposal governing the accession of the Centre for Human Rights to the Ombudsman. When passing laws, we legislators should assess the purpose of such a solution in particular from the aspect of the effective conduct of the affairs of the Ombudsman, who are also characteristic of all the Ombudsman European institutions. The solution to this proposal is also a clear legal provision for the immunity of the Ombudsman and his deputies, as well as the incompatibility of performance and functions with any public or professional duty and membership in the political party. It's a well-organized selection of the occupier and his deputies. HSU has proposed 4 amendments, under Article 12(2), to clarify the entire application procedure, we propose to insert a sentence that sets out the deadline for publication of a public call, which reads "The Ombudsman will publish no later than 30 days from the day of the election on the post, a public invitation to propose a candidate for deputy staff attorneys." In Article 34(2), we propose to amend the word appointed, with the words chosen, since the occupier is elected by the Assembly, so we change the word appointed to the chosen one. And in the second sentence where he says, "In 30 days, we're going to throw in no later than 30 days.", to speed up the process. The powers and responsibilities of the attorney general are well defined, as well as the conduct of the Advocate General on them as well as provisions on the Office of the Advocate General, the HSU has no objections. According to Article 31(2) of the Ombudsman's obligation to establish a council for the human rights of the Ombudsman, it is contrary to the principles relating to the status of state institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights, so-called Paris principles. The UN General Assembly was won in December 1993, and it is also questionable from the point of view of Article 93(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing the independence and independence of the Ombudsman in his work. Therefore, in Article 31(1), first sentence is added to a sentence that can be set up by the Advocate General for Human Rights of the Ombudsman. In addition, pursuant to Article 32(1), the legal provision of mandatory cooperation between the Advocate General and the Specialised Advocates referred to in Article 32(1) of the final proposal. It is also contrary to the same principles, which is why we suggest that in Article 32, paragraph 1 replace words can be replaced. I hope that the proposer of the final draft law will respect the proposed amendments, and the club of the representatives of the HSU will support this Law on the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10299	Thank you, too. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament at 10.46 have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Next club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Davorin Mladar and club HDZ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, there is something on the agenda that is very interesting. And even though I didn't mean to comment on the discussion of the other colleagues who spoke on behalf of the clubs, it's about what we've been complaining about so far, so I'm going to mention it this time. Without exception, all those who spoke about the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman spoke of one particularly important institution, the authority of the Croatian Parliament, the service which is of particular importance to the state because it protects fundamental freedoms and rights, through the constitution of guaranteed freedom and the rights of citizens. And after all these, I would say the necessary and necessary evaluations of the importance of this law are once again faced with the fact that we are bringing it into an emergency procedure. We have objected in determining the agenda, we are also complaining now because we think that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament has been injured, because all the arguments that have been made so far are not the arguments from the Rules of Procedure that this law may be included in the agenda by emergency procedure. And given his significance, given the fact that some have objected to the law that was passed since 1992. Indeed, in front of all of us, it is a question of why an emergency procedure, which is why we are shortening the debate on such important issues and on institutions that will guarantee human rights, individual freedoms, its rights in relation to the conduct of the body of the state government. However, as always, the Government has not accepted the arguments that two law readings can be made on committees, and especially here at the plenary session, it is a good way to fix everything that could possibly be fixed in this text of the law, and there is something that could be improved. We're here facing a challenge on form, not so much about the content of the law. Namely, the reason why this law is not in force is the number of votes needed or the qualified majority to which it should be passed and not. Therefore, again in the parliamentary procedure, we have referred this law, however, to the amended content, the modified content in a very important part, but also to the sole fundamental issue of the work of the attorney general. And this is the question whether this office can operate on its own as before and whether there are specialised special defenders for certain sensitive groups or groups of citizens, or whether it is a proposal for a new law, or what has been the proposal so far for the attorney general's office to include these specialised offices, so the lawyers for gender equality, for children's rights and for persons with disabilities. When we talk about the logic that has been conducted before, the Government is one of the arguments why special defenders have been joined into a single office is the fact that such solutions are known in the comparative legislation of European countries that we often take as an example when we talk about how certain issues have been regulated by the country. Well, since it has already been said here ombudsman as an institution is the Institute of Scandinavian Law, which was later taken over by most of the countries of European, Western European civilization. And for that reason, it is up to me to say, and because of our public opinion, when you look at comparative legislation, the first Scandinavian countries of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden have a single defender to protect human rights and freedoms and have no specialised institutions as we have so far had a solution. Likewise, other European countries, one large part of the countries that could be our role model in terms of either the population or the number of people, have the same level of standard of living, have such a solution that there are one or possibly two defence attorneys. But because of the way they are elected and appointed, so some where there are two, one is appointed by the president of the state and the other is elected by Parliament. But this solution with individual specialised lawyers I would say is in the minority of comparative legislation and the question of how well that is. In particular, the position of the Central European Ombudsmans and the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe in 2000 should be highlighted where it is concluded that the existence of specialised lawyers could weaken the general defenders and cause confusion of the public. It has also been noted that in the period of transition and financial uncertainty, it would be more rational to direct all available resources to the office of the existing national Ombudsman and, in the event of a need to appoint deputies for specific issues. And that was just the solution so far which, for procedural reasons, is now questionable again, that is to say, changing this proposal from the Government. Therefore, the proposal was that, with the Ombudsman, there are his deputies who specialize in certain areas or certain groups of people who are considered particularly sensitive groups and the reason that special attention is paid to the protection of these groups. Another argument in favour of the the thesis that it seems better to have an office of the attorney general lies in the fact that only the occupier of the constitutional category, that he has a special position in the Croatian Constitution and that, as part of the office, if he had specialised defenders for certain areas, he would give them the importance and weight that they so far do not have under our existing legislation. However, all of these arguments were heard by the applicant but did not give an argument, nor did he answer, which is why this solution is better. The reason or argument that human rights are underprotected and that they will better protect themselves with specialised lawyers simply does not stand. It's not a matter of whether there's one or five offices. It is more a question of how those who are in charge and authorized to do their job and how they carry out their duties. Whether these rights are protected to a sufficient extent is certainly not, because freedom has no price, so neither the protection of freedoms and rights can be left to the case or to the occasional inspiration of an individual office, but should be protected as much as possible. As a result, we believed that the formation of a single office of the Ombudsman with special constitutional powers, with deputies for certain categories of protected or particularly sensitive groups, is a better solution and self-subordination, not as the first argument, but an argument which can also be used to rationalise business, reduce the costs of all the institutions of the state administration or those who are alike, and so on by the authority of the Croatian Parliament. Surely, that rationalisation would be better done if instead of three or four special offices had one single Office of the Police Attorney with deputies for certain areas. Then we explained our position on individual committees, we pointed to the similarity of the solution in the State's Attorney's Office, and we feel that such a solution is rational, that such a solution is good. And in this case, given the special position in the Constitution, we think that even a better quality solution is due to the importance of these duties that exist with special defenders. Unfortunately, our arguments so far have not been accepted, so again the law was found in an emergency procedure. The arguments are not accepted either that we will further strengthen these services because it seems to us that the Office of the Public Attorney is the merger of the Centre for Human Rights without offense to anyone else the least important thing to strengthen such a special service. In fact, the special defenders are people who have already gained some experience, who have formal assumptions for doing the job, who perform the job most similar to the judicial authorities, so they would probably better respond to the demands of a single office and, of course, to strengthen the Office of the Public Attorney with their professional work and capacity. I said our arguments so far have not been accepted, although the talks have mentioned it as an argument that it does not mean that in some future time it will not conform to the idea of establishing a single office. There remains, of course, an objection that tomorrow some fourth special group of people will appear seeking special protection, so you will have to set up new Advocate's offices, for example, for third-age persons or something like that, which has already been mentioned in the debates because there will be needs and it will not be possible to resolve this within a single institution. Therefore, both the principle of rationality and efficiency speaks in favour of joining the Ombudsman’s offices in a single office. Unfortunately, this has not been accepted by the motionor so far. The HDZ Club does not share the estimates given here that the three current Ombudsmans have satisfactorily or barely satisfactorily performed their functions. They created an institution from the beginning without any experience in these affairs, taking into account those developed countries that had established such institutions a hundred or more years ago, and I believe that they have contributed to the need for such an institution by their work, that they have developed and have the task of continuing to develop the functioning of the office of any public defender, whether these specialised and I believe that they have further encouraged the public's awareness of the need to protect certain groups of inhabitants whose rights they protect. And given that they are always somewhere in the divide or conflict between the authorities or institutions with public authority and the expectations of the authorities that they will behave and what conclusions they will draw, I am convinced that their role is very delicate but that most of them have done their job to the satisfaction of those who appointed them or elected them and that they have contributed to the development of the entire institution of the attorney general, is the best evidence or special defenders, the best evidence is this and this debate where it is spoken about the needs of the promotion of this law and perhaps even giving different powers in order to be able to react more strongly or more directly to the obvious or even better to the lack of the public authority's body when they are warned that they are violating human rights by their actions. They will never be sufficiently satisfied with the need for their action, given that the necessary authorities of state authorities have the need for their actions and do not deliberately violate human rights and therefore we are extremely concerned about what the institution will look like in the future. Unfortunately, it seems to us that our arguments are not acceptable enough to the promoter, but we believe that both practice and work will, if such a law is passed soon, require changes and new amendments to this law and also because of the principles of rationalisation, but also because of the empowerment of institutions when all these individual services are grouped and not separated soon, will be on the agenda of this Parliament again, the Law on the Ombudsman then with the proposal that his work is being proposed, given that the scale of rights and freedoms are unique and cannot be shared by certain categories, we believe that our arguments will be taken into account and that we will soon change this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10301	Thank you, too. And as the eighth HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Final proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman. Its role and need in the Croatian society for the role of the Ombudsman in the sense in which someone said as is done in Scandinavia and other countries, and in the meaning of the Ombudsman, already arises. There was a debate here, even though what a writer would say to the public defender is proudly sounded by the ombudsman, there was a debate here about changing that name to the ombudsman. Now, therefore, and for the reason that the regiment would mean a stock, a stock that is a product, a product of a long time ago. However, I did not want to go into the correcting of an incorrect quote at the time. I guess that's why the European People's Party should also be a standing party, which is not true at all. Therefore, the suggestion of actually changing our language here and here from this pay phone and even about the Ombudsman we had suggested that from the speaker who spoke about this pay phone, that this was already a popular name. Maybe he'll be the defender of the people and the peoples. I don't know what's the further step and the intention of the promoter who was here after this pay phone was then I didn't go into correction, but really some things go beyond measure. What's a police lawyer in the Republic of Croatia? We had the opportunity to see the report submitted by the Ombudsman here to the Croatian Assembly and where it was as much as I remember about some two hundred cases or something more that had been solved over the course of one year. The provisions of this law say that the Croatian Assembly is elected by the Ombudsman, so he is independent, impartial and a number of others to say the epithet has a public defender, elected for 8 years with the possibility of reelection. How many times does the re-election, it doesn't say, in Article 10, it doesn't say. How many times can someone be a public defender? Maybe for life, I don't know, but from this vague definition, we can't find out. Furthermore, it says that the Ombudsman in Article 12 has at least three deputies. And as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't say. 15, 35, 99? Three at least. So it is not clear to me, then, that if there is already the possibility of the number of deputies, then the number of deputies being multiplied that, in that case, Mr. Mlakar cannot speak with that argument, too, about what he said on behalf of the HDZ Club, therefore, for the purpose of rationalising reduced consumption in such a situation where the state on its knees is economically, in a situation where citizens do not have bread, and we multiply and multiply the regiments or other defenders. A previous speaker said well, perhaps a need arises, or someone will require the introduction of a public defender for a third - age person. But I'd say something else, what is the problem with human rights violations and laws, and I'd say unreadable, for example. The D.A.'s office. Well, I have performances and complaints from citizens who are mass-resisting that the ministry is not based on their demands, on their documentation, on their arguments. I've been writing now, before I've spoken, now I've written to the Minister of Defence in connection with Mr Ante Orsholic, who's been asking for eight years to recognize his status as a Croatian volunteer. Is it also the subject of the vacancy of the attorney general, the non-response or the misdemeanor of a public defender to the misdetermination of an institution such as the ministry. And before your ministry when HDZ was in power here and his coalition partners, not to say anything else, either. So man leads his fight for his right eight, nine years, and he has a pension he lives on, a woman is disabled, 950 kuna in Vukovar. In Vukovar, so Orsholic Antoine. So then Mr. Nikola Slobodan from Sibinj is near Slavonski Brod, and Juric Franjo from Badljevina near Pakrac, up towards Lipik and such is a series. And those MPs are also asking the godmothers to intervene with the competent institutions, the competent ministries, so maybe we should think about the defense attorney who would then represent and defend, I guess they're a regiment, too, probably, and they belong to the occupier. Or one of the deputies, the ones I don't know how much, will be in charge solely of representing the rights, the dignity of the defense attorney. When it is a public defender, it is said to be protected and prevented, therefore, from working to preserve human rights, opposes or prosecutes, in its own way, it performs a search in the cruel, inhuman or humiliating procedures that occur in all societies. When the attorney general stood up for those women in Vukovar who were raped and who reported themselves to USKOK and DORH their cases by name and last name, which is not easy. Has the occupier ever asked DORH what happened to the case? We advocate their rights, their human and female rights, for their honor. No, never. Does the Attorney General have the right to intervene on his own initiative? It does, but it doesn't intervene. I didn't come here because of criticism by the attorney general, but this is the law on the organisation and the occupier and his office, his deputies and everything else, the reconnaissance and what the gentleman says, one said here with extended powers. It is good, and I hope that these extended powers when the Ombudsman can request the initiation of both criminal and criminal proceedings, which is new in this legislation, so that part is good, and that is why I would personally ask for it, and I hope that therefore the Ombudsman will have more work and more interventions and more citizens' applications. This is how he acted as a ficus, a legal ficus, and I understood it and the citizens understood it as a piece of justice, justice and justice in the Republic of Croatia which is not the same right, justice and justice. We already know that from the election for President of the Republic. In fact, neither did he have any authority, Croatian citizens, taxpayers paid all of this hugely together and others how many lawyers there are and how many offices there are, how many employees, how many tenants, how many others, and then the man rightly wonders whether or not the HDSSB club will agree to such a legal proposal. I'm saying, just a wording saying that the attorney general is finally getting the opportunity, finally getting the opportunity to propose after all his reconnaissances and interventions to the authorities of the state administration, then local and regional self-government that he can launch, that is, propose the initiation of a criminal and even criminal proceedings. In the legal proposal itself, in the text of a legislative proposal which my predecessors spoke of, therefore, in Article 5, it is said that in the field of promoting human rights and freedoms, we once also marked this by the adjective of basic human rights and freedoms because in Croatia we now have a number of other civil defenders dealing with the rights of children, women, etc., therefore there should actually be basic human rights and freedoms here. Article 12 and this formulation of at least three deputies is truly unspeakable to speak because it opens up the possibility that the parliamentary majority, the fat parliamentary majority of the defenders' votes, and I don't know how many, three at least, and how many of them we don't know, and all of these citizens of the Republic of Croatia with their 25% VAT, more expensive electricity, gas, water and all of them will obviously pay. On the supervision, then on the surveillance carried out by the body and in Article 27, it says this way "if the authority carrying out the supervision within that time limit does not report the facts and the measures taken by the Ombudsman will inform the Government of the Republic of Croatia". Is the Government of the Republic of Croatia an executive or judicial authority? Or perhaps someone thinks that here is Prime Minister Milanovic entering the assessment of this unfortunate car accident in Hungary that it is actually ethically neutral, so the government will probably also, when the attorney general submits a submission to the government, assess whether something is neutral, whether something is orderly or something is messy. So is the government a judicial authority? Or is the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia independent? Why government when there are other judicial institutions, the government is not a judicial institution. Therefore, the little formula ha is slightly regrettable without being ridiculous. About the need to inform the Croatian Parliament that appoints it is already another matter. He submits a report to the Croatian Parliament annually and the Croatian Parliament can discuss it. So, the attorney general submits a report to the Croatian Parliament. Here's how our citizens are, for example, offended when someone says it, and especially when someone who heads the Croatian government says it's '45. For years it was such a time that it was normal for someone to have the right to kill hundreds of thousands of captured soldiers, civilians, women and children. Is she hurt here, read "The Voice of Slavonia" p. 5th of Saturday, are all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia injured there? So no one intervenes, and no one intervenes. If necessary, we'll provide him with a quote that's now being made here, and I can deliver it to you from the SDP club. I'll get it for you, so read it. And I'm going to make it bigger for you to see better. And such things happen in this society that citizens are actually offended by the least said by reckless, undetected and irresponsible statements and that no one reacts. Those who have the power that someone here was talking about, which is the media, financial tycoons and institutions they don't care about, that kind of thing because it's known that they're in contact with this kind of thing, but a public defender would have to be independent and intervene in these situations. I think the HDSSB club will be restrained at the end of the day while we're still consulting on this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. Leco. I'm sorry I broke 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10303	Thank you, too, 43 seconds. And the ninth club of representatives of the independent list and respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10304	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. For the first time, it is said that kittens are throwing things away, and I will still bring some things to this House as my opinions on behalf of the Civil and Ethics Association of Croatia through which we have entered the list of independent two MPs, and with the help of Mr. Shojat who joined our club we have established a club of independent representatives on behalf of which I will now say a few words. Some of the remarks I have personally experienced and experienced through the work of this House I think that we have gone one way that is long and will not bring the desired changes and that often we are wasting precious time because life will not wait for this House or our decisions, life writes history the way it happens every day. We have advocated radical changes in Croatian society in three sectors, rooted changes in policymaking, radical changes in the structure of Croatia and root changes in the spirit of democratic procedure and served or those who have failed to carry out their parliamentary duties in this House. We're going to change and it's seen in these laws of first and second reading. Better always two readings than one and a half emergency procedures, but we decided by that story when the master wanted to cut his dog's tail short that he decided he'd cut his tail a little bit so he wouldn't hurt a bit. And when he cut his tail every time it hurt him, instead of cutting it off once, the pain would have gone away. It is a metaphor that has its advantages and disadvantages, but I believe that without any radical changes slowly cutting tails and passing some laws, we will not overcome the crisis we are in. I am known in the Croatian public as Don Ivan, but here I do not speak as Don Ivan, I do not speak for the institution although I have served faithfully for 50 years, I speak as a national independent representative in the Croatian Parliament. I would love to, and that would be in the spirit of the Constitution itself, and that's what I said at the beginning of the Assembly meeting when a colleague asked me how I felt I liked this place on Tuškanac for parking, so that I would like the council to park their party membership in Tuškanac, and to come to the Assembly as Parliament's people's representatives and to stick to it. In this House, I also consider this session a great responsibility for what the Croatian future will be. We need this little bit of work, I say we're wasting more time than we're getting at quality. Although these discussions are needed, even as they are about the attorney general. But it should be remembered that we didn't start with the defenses of any category at the beginning but had a constitution to be respected. Not by the functioning of the constitutional provision that we are all equally born the idea of the establishment of the defences and may be able to multiply that number, but we will not solve the problems until the rule of law is established equally for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What we need and what the Parliament should take responsibility for, I think we are working without a long-term development goal, that Croatia does not have a national consensus on the development of Croatia except verbally but that is not enough. It is necessary to develop a strategy for the development of Croatia in at least 10 years or 20 years that we know what we are doing regardless of which party will come into power, it must respect what the Croatian Parliament brings through the national consensus of the Croatian Development Project over the next 20 years. This project could be a project of the Croatian Federation, the Croatian Parliament, and it should be developed by people who are first competent in different areas such as our ministries. To develop this project of national development of Croatia by segments, to accept this in the Parliament with the required discussion and to be a binding document for all those governments that will be formed in future times. This is necessary because we cannot even build a house without a project, and we cannot direct any people without a single project strategy that would be long-term. We can say that we have in our Constitution a fundamental element, but I just think that we are the weakest because these basics of the Constitution do not function in a recognizable way and it is necessary to start from the very beginning. Those who will work on this programme of national development project I think should meet these three principles. The first principle of excellence, to know the matter of a particular area of life. Second, to be people who are recognized for their honesty and to be sensitive to social problems. If such teams were to draw up a national project for Croatia's development, and this Parliament would accept this meeting as a historic step towards a better future. For the first time, I would have limited myself to this. As far as the Law on the Ombudsman himself is concerned, I believe that it should be updated as well as a national programme should not be some dogmatic attitude but open to the events that society is experiencing, which are causing us every day. And so this proposal, which the opposition said, is a conditional opposition because one thought comes to me, when I look out of the back row of the assembly, then on the right hand side, and on the left hand side, on the right hand side. When I am here then the right are right, the left are left but I believe that this division is unnecessary, that there are professional, honest, good people on both sides and on the other hand and that there should be a national consensus in creating a national development project for Croatia. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10305	Thank you, Your Honor. We haven't heard much about the bill, but we have heard other things, so for now we will thank and announce that we have exhausted the list of registered committee clubs to discuss the proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman. Now we move on to a debate, an individual debate by MPs for 10 minutes. And the first one for discussion was registered by respected representative Sandra Petrovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Justice with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. Let me, from this position in the individual debate, comment on this proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman, which we finally have a chance to discuss before this House. The current Law on the Ombudsman is 20 years old, 20 years old, since 1992. Failed to pass a new Law on the Ombudsman last year, which unfortunately was published in the National No. 125/11. and it never came into force, and so was the Constitutional Court because it was not brought to the necessary majority in the Croatian Parliament. We have been given the opportunity as a new authority to give us the full proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman, and in the Parliament, the Ministry of Justice, the Law on the Ombudsman. I believe that the Law on the Attorney General is better than the one that was passed, or was not passed last year. It is precisely because he does not foresee the merger of the attorney general, the Attorney General's Office with the special defences. We in the report, on the debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman, and other lawyers as SDP MPs, pointed to the fact that the merger of special defences with the Ombudsman's Office could, in any case, cause so-called. My personal position, I would call it drowning the protection of children's rights, the rights of persons with disabilities or the rights of persons who have been injured by the right, of course the right of sex. In his debate, Mr Grubisic said there are special defenders for children and women in front of the HDSSB club. So there's no special defender for women. There is a special advocate for gender equality who can be addressed as a man if he considers that his rights as a man or the rights to gender equality are violated in front of some bodies. I believe that the merger of special defenders – lawyers for gender equality, persons with disabilities and children at the moment is not opportunised. I don't think it's good to do rationalization for rationalization alone. No significant savings and no significant changes will occur if they do not happen by joining these special ombudsmans. Perhaps it would eventually bring in a few months of unrest and system scolding. In any case, more people could be damaged than benefits could bring them benefits. A colleague, Mlakar, mentioned in front of the HDZ Club, countries that have unique, i.e. occupiers, or countries that do not have special defences. He mentioned one Finland and one Denmark as a country with a special unique Ombudsman. I would warn and draw attention to the fact that in Croatia the rights and standards and level of awareness of the protection of individual rights and freedoms are not as high as in these highly developed democratic countries with a high standard of democracy. Therefore, as long as we cannot compare in this segment with Finland and Denmark, I do not think it is opportunistic to think that special defenders are joining with the attorney general. I would also like to welcome from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party, i.e. members of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, leaving values incorporated into the Social Democratic Party programme of Croatia are equality, social justice, freedom and values of democratic society, intergenerational solidarity. I think it's certainly in that direction that this Law on the Attorney General has gone. By respecting the Advocate General of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms established by the Constitution, the laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms, I certainly believe that this law has improved, or brought into line with the amendments to the Constitution that have taken place since the entry into force of the law today in force since '92. years with coming, or... Strengthening the constitutional position of the Ombudsman. [[You can't hear the phone.]] Let me just once again just comment on the conditions for selecting the occupiers who are also incorporated in this text of the final draft law. In this regard, the Ombudsman should be a legal profession, and I consider it a good provision in Article 12, which provides that one of the deputies of the sea, at least one of the deputy civil defence attorneys must have completed an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study of legal professions until this is strictly foreseen for the other deputies. So they can be some other professions, not legal ones. I think it's very important for a certain professionalism, namely the possibility of specialising in certain areas of the work of the attorney general. As far as the other provisions of the law are concerned, they are quite high-quality, high-quality. There are no specific objections or objections here. I would just like to point out in the end, and we will, of course, have the opportunity to hear in the report on the work of the Ombudsman, that there is still a great problem in Croatia of silence of public authorities and violation of the rights of citizens in front of public authorities institutions and that these are problems affecting Croatian society since the fact that the state itself is. And that these are problems that will not be encountered in a way that, at least at this point, the attorney general submits criminal charges against the head of the public authorities' institutions, but it must be done systematically by strengthening the awareness of the public about the institution of the Ombudsman, about the person who will take care of their rights and by strengthening trust in the state itself, i.e. the state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10307	Thank you. Next up for the Peja Grbin debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10308	I would like to thank the esteemed Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed deputy minister. Well, here's what we've heard a lot today about the Ombudsman's institute and its importance for a democratic order in one country, for the protection of human rights, for the rights of citizens, and I don't think it should be added much. I believe that, despite the fact that their work has been regulated by a fairly rudimentary law over the past 20 years, the public defenders have proved to be an exceptional dam against human rights violations and have proved to be one of the few points of light in the Croatian political system. And that's why we need to pay special attention to the law governing the work of the attorney general. It is my opinion that this law is in a very good way in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the changes that concern it in a good way regulates the work and position of the Ombudsman and gives it significant mechanisms to strengthen its position. Among other things, we have the provisions of Articles 24 and 25. Laws governing the obligations of the working bodies to provide information to the Advocate General as well as the possibilities that the Ombudsman may have in the event that those bodies do not comply with the law. However, I would ask here that both the attorney general and the competent ministry pay considerable attention to how the public authorities deal with the work of the attorney general after the entry into force of this law. In fact, when we discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman, we noticed that there are still bodies that do not respond, do not respond, do not provide information. In the debate, I was free to point out that kind of treatment, but now I'd like to add something else. I think we need to see if such treatment continues whether certain sanctions in the form of criminal or criminal provisions should be put in place in this law which would sanction the behaviour of not only officials but also the head of a certain public body who do not act on the orders of the Advocate General. So, we have a situation here that the attorney general is basically just looking for an indication and data delivery. Each public body is obliged to do so, and if it is noted that law enforcement does not permit such behaviour, I think we will have to seriously consider putting certain criminal measures in the law in the long term to be corrected. What was most debated here is the question of whether it is necessary to bring together the Institute of the Public Attorney and the Specialised Advocates. I'm thinking it's not. A colleague, Petrovic, pointed out before me, an example of Denmark and Finland, which have only the Institute of the Public Attorneys and which have developed democracies with great experience in the fight to protect human rights. On the other hand, I would point out the example of Sweden. Despite what we had opportunity to hear here, Sweden has specialised defenders. In particular, there is a specialised prosecutor for discrimination, but there is something that we could also think about in the long term, which is the Ombudsman for the protection of consumer rights. Therefore, the Swedish State from which the Institute of the Public Prosecutors began, a country which is seen as an example of human rights protection throughout the world, nevertheless considers it necessary to provide additional protection for certain segments of society besides those provided through the work of the Ombudsman. We in Croatia are unfortunately nowhere near the standard in Sweden. Unfortunately, and some colleagues in their discussions, when we discussed reports on the work of specialised lawyers, they showed that they were not aware of the problems we had. A concrete example of this was the debate on gender equality. And as long as we have such problems in Croatia and in this highest House, I don't think we should even think about abolishing the institutions of specialised lawyers who have to worry about the rights of those who are abandoned in our society today. Here, given the discussions of my colleagues before me, I will not continue to prolong, I will just point out the need to change the provisions on the date of entry into force, because given the time when this debate is being held, I am afraid that June 30th is not possible for us as a term of entry into force of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10309	Thank you. We have one replica, representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it would be great for us to have 10 more specialized defence offices for all possible social problems, but I think the table would a little look at the total of Croatia's state and Croatian economy and see what is more financially and sustainable for Croatian society at all. Human rights are certainly also in the Croatian state today at an acceptable and good level, however, now to draw examples of Sweden, Denmark, so let's not really exaggerate. Attorney for Consumer Rights? So where is the Ombudsman for the rights of the unemployed and for the rights of those who work for 3,000 kuna? I think you should put simply on paper really as much as it costs and that the Croatian state can finance more at all. And in this bill, at least you're the deputy. How much of the top deputy? 8, 10? I think we'll have to stop somewhere at some point. We can declare our wish and declare our development, but somewhere in this society and this few more people who are doing this will no longer be able to define all our beautiful desires. Therefore, about our beautiful desires, we will have to finally start to limit our financial opportunities. The previous proposal, however, went towards some rationalization, and the existing quality could be maintained. This proposal goes further towards further increasing this state administration or bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10311	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10312	Here's a respected colleague, I'm glad you just volunteered for the replica, because, among other things, your discussion when we discussed gender equality was that, which pointed out the need to maintain the Ombudsman's institute, or in the particular case of a lawyer for gender equality. Dear colleague, and this current discussion of yours shows your complete lack of understanding of the problem of human rights and their protection. In my court, if we are unable to protect the rights and other groups of citizens not only of those for which we have established the special specialised occupiers, then we must also set up specialised defenders for those groups because we are acting as a state that cannot take care of its citizens, no matter how much it costs to cost. Sorry, buddy, but human rights don't have a price because without human rights, no matter what our incomes are, we become a barbaric country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10313	We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10314	Thank you. I would have corrected the quote, I think my colleague mixed me up with someone, I didn't answer in the context of that debate. Probably mixed me up with one of my clubmates. And human rights have no price, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10315	Thank you very much. We've got to move on. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic is applying for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. I would like to join my colleagues in welcoming this law, first of all, that I consider this law to be a strengthening of the institution of the occupier, and since my colleagues and colleagues have already referred to the importance of the Ombudsman's institution for too long. Also, this law, at least I personally and intimately feel as a confirmation of survival, I would have conditionally called the particular attorneys. Why do I think that's important? I think it's important and I will especially elaborate this on the debate we've had before, so that certain segments of society or the problems we face in society can be given particularly important, i.e. we can take special care that certain problems or we can call them conditionally risk groups within society can have their own institution which, of course, will be more professional and better taken care of. I think it's clear to everyone, I think it should be especially clear to all the colleagues and colleagues who worked with the children. I have and I have seen all the cases of child neglect, child rights violations, and you will agree with me that children are the most vulnerable segment of our society, that children are our future and that we need to protect them, that we should in every way enable them to consume their rights, and one of these rights is free growing up, learning, etc. People with disabilities, I think it's also very important because people with disabilities are people who face many obstacles in everyday life, many obstacles that we healthy people, so people who don't have disabilities don't usually experience. A few steps are not a big problem for us, but to a disabled person it is an almost insurmountable problem that he encounters every day. Yes, we have passed various legal regulations that we have tried to make everyday life easier for people with disabilities, but these laws are very often broken. So we had the opportunity to hear when we discussed the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities, how new buildings are set up for fixed persons or difficult mobile persons. As they pass the procedure of issuing the applicable authorisation, the ramp is then unmounted and placed on another object to pass the same process. So those ramps don't stay. These are, for example, the problems that the Ombudsman points to in this case, and these are the problems that need to survive. I would agree with my colleague Grbino that the Institute of Gender Equality is extremely important, especially if we see the rhetoric with which the issues related to this topic were discussed in this House. But I would especially refer to something else, that is also what my colleagues and colleagues mentioned before me, which is that the occupier is one serious institution and that it is unacceptable for certain state institutions to deafen themselves to rushes, memos, and requests by the attorney general. When we discussed the report submitted to us by the Ombudsman, he then drew up a list of ministries that ignored his memos and general correspondence with the institution of the attorney general. He also mentioned that many units of local self-government are doing so, and here was some debate about the need to impose some sanctions on institutions that ignore the attorney general and even individuals. My proposal would go to the public defender in the following report to state what all the institutions that ignored his memos, his haste and so on and that in a certain way the team, we call it conditionally so, by the pillar of shame, we try to motivate people, so this is primarily a moral obligation that whatever certain ministry resolutions take this institution seriously, because I take it seriously and I think it is very important for our society. In the end, let me support this law for the reasons that I have stated, so first of all, strengthening this institution because the attorney general is, I would dare say the last line of defense and even the only line of defense for some citizens who, in administrative proceedings, face insurmountable obstacles, extremely long procedures and other forms of violations of their human rights. As my colleagues have claimed before me, human rights have no price, and since this law is in my opinion going towards strengthening human rights, I will certainly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10317	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was represented by Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hajduković, I agree with you that certain categories should be given special attention and in that part you spoke about children, children's rights, indisputable and disabled persons. It's also absolutely important, but I want to remind you of one thing. You were talking about accessibility, the moment of accessibility, absolutely standing there. But you know what the biggest ones in the D.A.'s report are for people with disabilities in what area are the biggest objections, in the area of social protection, dear colleagues. In fact, you know that the budget in social protection is reduced, you know that certainly higher VAT, energy prices, electricity prices, gas prices and everything certainly does not contribute to the social protection of people with disabilities, thus making it more difficult for them. And that's why I invite you to be also welcome and to be as active in this part of the debate, because surely one piece contributes far more than a hundred words that we will say in support of these categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10319	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10320	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I agree with you, so one of the biggest obstacles is certainly social rights, so that's what the lawyer herself said among other things. However, the budget had to adapt to the emerging economic situation so that the social care there had to, as I say, adapt to the frameworks that were set for us. Unfortunately, some things this government cannot influence. These are energy prices because they are dictated on the global market. Thus, in some ways the government does not have much room for manoeuvre, especially given the economic opportunities. And I believe that this government will, above all, try to better address the rights of persons with disabilities in a better way to consume their rights, to clearly define their rights and not in any case abolish their rights according to the means available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10321	Thank you, too. Another replica, representative of Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10322	Thank you very much. My colleague, I also support all the laws and all the law on attorneys and I hold that we really need lawyers, but the biggest problem is that our laws aren't being implemented. We have very good laws in Croatia. If you could, if you could just give me one bill that would say that anyone who breaks any law to apply himself, that would be great. But unfortunately, we give and we have new bill proposals, we have amendments to the law, but we never try to enforce those laws. Our lawyers don't have that kind of authority. Our lawyers now as things stand, they're simply people's shoulder to cry on because when lawyers ask the state or state bodies to answer something they don't answer. What are they? They send two, three, five rushes and eventually they go into oblivion or nobody talks about it anymore. So let's go try, let's push these laws to be implemented otherwise our lawyers are just a shoulder to cry on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10323	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10324	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. If my colleagues agreed with you defenders were always actually one form of dare I say coercion to uphold the law. What I forgot to say in my debate is that the defenders are extremely useful to us because they can influence some legislative processes in this House in the sense that they make recommendations at the end of each report. I think it's important because it's people who often meet the law in practice. So, what are the legal provisions that are most often broken, which are unarranged, vague and similar, and thus can give guidance to this House when making changes and supplementing the laws that you have mentioned. And in my debate, I also mentioned the way in which it could possibly be considered how and in what way to encourage it, that is, to punish it conditionally so-called institutions and individuals who are deafening themselves about the rushes and memos of the Ombudsman. I agree with you that this is a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10325	Thank you. Next up for the hearing of MPs Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10326	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to say that I will support this proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman, and I am extremely pleased that this law retains the existing system which, apart from the Ombudsman, has specialised defenders, i.e. the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, children and gender equality. I believe that this has proved extremely good in practice so far, and in some ways the public's attention has turned to the very problems faced by these extremely vulnerable social groups. I would like to refer to some of the statements that have been made today during this debate, and they refer to the practice of some general defenders who are actually in charge of taking care of all aspects of human rights in the world. I believe that is not so and in this sense I will mention also the recently held UN Conference on Sustainable Development of RIO Plus 20, which took place in Rio de Janeiro and where it was also considered that a special institution of environmental defenders should be launched at UN level and, of course, the UN environmental protection programme should be turned, i.e. to become a UN environmental organisation, meaning from UNEP to UNEEO. Therefore, both at UN level and in many other countries in the world, there is a practice of forming special, specialised lawyers, i.e. defenders of various issues, i.e. the problem of human rights, and here I would like to stress that environmental protection is today classified as a special, fourth generation of human rights. This, of course, brings not only lawyers or defenders to the Republic of Croatia, but throughout the world. They increase their jobs, new human rights conventions are adopted, jobs and tasks are upgraded, and I think there are two key problems here. One of the problems is, of course, the material resources available to the attorney’s office, i.e. the lawyer’s office and which are the basis for the quality of the conduct of any job, as well as the work of the attorney general, or specialised counsel. And the other thing that is very important in this whole story is also the real mechanisms available to the occupier, i.e. specialised defenders or lawyers, in order to force public authorities who do not respect the laws and international regulations to adhere to them and to actually do something about it. According to this proposal for a law, it seems to me that the strongest instrument that the Ombudsman can make is to inform the Croatian Parliament and the public and to initiate the appropriate procedure against, means to the head of the body to propose to initiate an appropriate procedure against a person who has been unwittingly acting in violation of constitutional and legal rights. Somehow, it seems to me that this is not a strong enough instrument for a public defender to really ensure the respect of the law, and unfortunately we have had the opportunity to see from the practice so far and based on a report by the Ombudsman so far that there are very many failures by the public authorities and that the public authorities are not particularly cooperative in terms of how they act and those recommendations given to them by the Ombudsman. I have another such small doubt concerning this bill, so I would ask the Deputy Minister of Justice that he may be referred in his closing statement on Article 9, which as regards access to information and the obligation to keep a secret where it is said that the Ombudsman has the right to obtain information, regardless of what is later in Article 25 in the obligation of cooperation and assistance, says that public authorities are obliged to ensure the availability of information and to provide all the information, acts and other documentation relating to the complaint made, I think that Article 9 may also need to be strengthened in that part and to say that the public authorities have an obligation to provide information, not only that the Ombudsman has the right to do so. Article 22 also states that the Advocate General does not act in cases where court proceedings are conducted unless there is an unnecessary delay in proceedings or obvious abuse of power. However, there is no indication of whether it is an unnecessary delay in proceedings or an obvious abuse of powers, and since Article 22 does not specify how this is determined, I would be grateful to the applicant for a little explanation, all in all. So, I think that this law is a good step forward and I'm glad, here it is that the Kukuriku coalition, or the ruling coalition, kept the promise it made during the campaign and left the specialized defense attorney offices. Because I believe that this will make the system better organised than all of this shrugs under the meaning of the occupier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10327	Thank you, too. Next up for debate Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10328	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputies with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The Ombudsman is a constitutional category, and his office is further strengthened by the last amendments to the Constitution, under which the Ombudsman received immunity as well as parliamentary representatives, and at the constitutional level, independence and independence in the work is recognised. Therefore, it was necessary to amend clearly, i.e. to adopt a completely new legal text amending the 1992 law in accordance with the amendments to the Constitution, the development of the institution, and to identify the need for improvement. As the Ombudsman institution was said to have been established in Sweden, there has been more than 2nd century, and during the 2nd century, this institution has significantly evaluated and has been accepted from there in many countries of the world. I therefore believe that we can rightly view the model there as a model of our own. So I don't think there are any objections that we should watch how it is now arranged in Sweden, Denmark or other developed countries because if we accept that argument to the end then we shouldn't even lead this institution because it has its own origin in these countries, so already over the 2nd century. And those countries certainly did not become what they are because they were only mindful of the principle of efficiency, so that they did not spend any swearing. Because before the 2nd century, Sweden may not have been richer than Croatia is now, but it is obvious that the development of these social institutions affects the development of society as a whole at a more advanced level. Thus, in Sweden, ombudsman reports there are read, studied in both the Parliament of Rizla and other state bodies, as well as the public concerned. During the year of its existence, it is obvious that this institution has therefore helped, as I said, to make Sweden a country of high respect for human and civil rights and social arrangements that many countries take as role models. It is therefore necessary to welcome the provisions that allow the institution to evolve and extend the powers of the Ombudsman to promote and protect human rights and freedoms and the rule of law when considering complaints about the existence of illegality and irregularities and to extend the jurisdiction to consider complaints about the work of legal and natural persons. The role of the attorney general is, therefore, not to prevent those harsh violations of the right citizens, but to such tasks is a more effective court. It therefore has one more subtle task, it acts in those minor, more cunning violations of rights and the freedom of citizens by the public authority when neither the court nor the other control authorities can act effectively anymore. For this reason, I also welcome the introduction of a provision giving the Ombudsman a clearer authority to act even in cases conducted in court proceedings. If, therefore, there is an unnecessary delay in proceedings or obvious abuse of power, in this case it may act in a administrative procedure. The explicit giving of such powers represents a significant improvement in relation to the legal... It focuses on the exercise of the ombudsman task that I mentioned earlier because the delay in proceedings was too often an instrument of violation of the constitutional or legal rights of parties in the process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I myself had the opportunity to feel what it meant to delay the procedure, in particular in one procedure before the administrative court in a dispute with the Ministry of Justice, where the lawyer came only after 4 years, obviously too late for any effective legal protection. There was even a court case at that time that could not help to protect the right to effective judicial protection in violation of justice. And this law provides opportunities and direct treatment,... and there is a possibility for further development in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In favour of the introduction of a provision under which the proposal for a law can be applied exceptionally... Things say the fact of the constant rise of complaints in the judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From 2007 to 2011, from 276 to 397, although the Ombudsman had so far had no express jurisdiction to act in relation to the objection against the conduct of the judicial authorities. It is obvious, therefore, that there is a number of complaints about the work of the judiciary against the attorney general is a particular cry for protection and in these proceedings. The Swedish pedant also has the possibility of acting in court proceedings, even more so in the past his work was largely focused on the judiciary and the results of his work were good. So international practice justifies such evolution, in my opinion and the Croatian Ombudsman. A report by the civil defender that we had the opportunity to consider in this House some time ago shows that a number of state authorities and bodies with public authority, as already mentioned by several colleagues, do not give answers to the Ombudsman. Thus, the report states that the case is common to remain unresolved, and in 173 cases it was necessary to refer from 1 to 5 rushes, in as many as 60 cases the Ombudsman did not receive an answer after more haste. It is therefore a good decision that it is prescribed that this time, the head of the body referred to in Article 4 of the Law may propose to initiate appropriate proceedings against a person who has not taken appropriate measures as well as to make a declaration to the head of the body on the notification of the staff of the Advocate General for the initiation of the infringement of the official duty. Prior to that, the Ombudsman had been able to make recommendations for the initiation of the procedure for breach of official duty, but the procedure followed by the deafness at the request of the Ombudsman was not so detailed or the procedure itself was prescribed, in order to inform of it by a body which is therefore being supervised or by the government itself. There were also more proposals aimed at, I would say, the procedural discipline of administrative bodies and bodies with public authority. In my opinion, one of the options for this could be the prerogative that, therefore, the deafening of a mere lawyer's inquiry of a serious violation of official duty was in some Law on the Rights and responsibilities of state officials, or local officials, in perhaps even in a special law. In the Ombudsman's report for the past year, I failed to find out whether or not a proposal to initiate the appropriate procedure was made, so I conclude that this activity was obviously not more significantly represented, which in my opinion is not good. I therefore hope that by introducing these provisions, the activities of the Ombudsman will be more significant, which I assess as necessary. Personally, I would like to see stronger powers of the attorney-general, for example, in a more explicit and clear mandate to carry out inspection tasks, especially in cases of obstruction by the public authorities of the staff of the Ombudsman. In Swedish practice, for example, the Ombudsman spends 50 to 60 days a year in inspection of the authorities of different species, so not only of the prison system but also of other types of government. I also welcome the provision that strengthens and obligations of the Ombudsman who prescribes the content of the report. When I made a complaint in my own time to the attorney general, I received a polite response that didn't mean much to me, because I was merely informed that my complaint had been forwarded, I was informed of the body's response, and without assessing whether my right had been violated and without any other effect whatsoever. The Ombudsman will now have to make it clear that the infringement of the right will, in the event that it finds that the right is violated, commits it to follow further action particularly in respect of the provision of Article 26(4) which obliges it to propose the initiation of criminal, criminal or disciplinary proceedings if it determines therefore that there are elements of the criminal offence or breach of labour discipline. From the point of view of the possibility of re-application of a request for the assessment of the constitutionality of this law, as pointed out in the session of the Legislative Committee, I believe that paragraph 7 of Article 11 of the Law should be considered, which stipulates that the Ombudsman may not be a person who has not performed a public, political function in representative bodies or executive authorities in the last five years from the date of the public call. Namely, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right under equal conditions to participate in public affairs and be admitted to public service, and freedoms and rights can only be limited by law to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, as well as legal order, public morality and health. Here it seems to me that for the selection of the Ombudsman, a very strict criterion has been taken that does not exist anywhere in parallel practice, and I would certainly recommend that we reconsider this provision. Finally, I think that this law represents a significant evolution in relation to the legal text of the early 1990s, strengthens the position and opportunities of the Ombudsman and represents a good basis for greater reputation and the importance of an institution that should, of course, be strengthened and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10329	Thank you. On our show, we have a replica, representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10330	So here's the MP, and in your debate, there's been a thesis about how the system will function better if it stays organised this way, so if there's no unification, if these specialized veggie attorneys remain. The question is, why is this system going to function better? Why wouldn't that system work better if you could get them together? I think that in the front row of quality, it depends on how well these people do their job and how hard they work. And these permanent parallels about Sweden, Denmark, Finland, so I think why we don't pull those parallels when economic issues are in the process. So let's go when we lower prices, when VAT increases, when we compare the standard of living with the cost of living, and then we pull those parallels. So let's not just pull them out when it suits us, when we talk about some of the highest democratic standards. So if we want to be leaders then let's start another ten specialized offices and we'll be leaders in Europe, and we'll be the best in Europe to protect human rights. I don't think it can be forgotten why we should have these four offices, and every office of its four accounts, every secretary, every one of its employees. I mean, it's not a question of how many things there are, but how high-quality people do their jobs. Therefore, this office as well as we do, like all others, must share the fate of the current state of this society and the state. Everything has to be rationalized, and this office has to be rationalized, which does not necessarily mean that its quality will be worse. It doesn't have to mean anything. But this proposal actually goes on to further increase the total administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10331	Thank you. We have a response to Drazen Kopandek's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10332	Well, MP, I agree that we need to rationalise wherever we can, but not at the expense of some of the basic things we want to protect. Rationalisation is possible through other administrative measures, and not only by joining all the institutions of the occupier into one. In this way, I think these public defenders specialize in maintaining their reputation, retaining their ability to perform on their own as we strengthen their position. I don't think it can be said that in this way their position is not stronger than if they were incorporated into an institution. I agree that parallels should be withdrawn as much as possible between developed countries with Croatia not only on this issue. I haven't said one word to myself that only in this case should I pull the parallel. In this case, we're talking about the Attorney General. And I reiterate my claim that the development of civil law institutions in these countries has also affected these countries to reach that stage of development at which they are today. Adolescence of these institutions 200 years ago would probably make it difficult for these countries to develop, although they would probably still be at a higher level of some democratic social development than we are. But I think that just insisting on the principle of saving in this case when it comes to human rights and protecting certain categories of persons is not an argument, but on the contrary, I think that protecting and these segments of human rights can contribute in general to social and economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10333	Thank you very much. Further to the debate, Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10334	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues here I will return to the Croatian Parliament and speak from the perspective of the Croatian society and the Croatian Parliament at the proposal of my colleague Đurović. A large part of all the debates so far have been devoted to one quite certainly to one problem that is to bring together or not to join the defense attorney’s offices. Whether to put everything under the same roof, under the same hat or not. I think the basic question is whether we even have a strategy on what human rights is, what we want with human rights, how we defend human rights. And what Đurovic used to say first, some fundamental rights in Croatia are threatened and these fundamental rights also challenge children's rights, the rights of persons with disabilities. We have major issues in gender equality, so we certainly have major problems in the functioning of the Office of the Public Attorney. What exactly are we doing with this law today? Is the Attorney General powerful? Does he have any power? That's the basic question. It doesn't matter how it's written. We have a gray law that sounds nice on paper, but there's a feller in each one. That's what we say holes in the law, which turn that law into nothing. Let's just say, we have a law on HRT that only changes because management could be replaced. The law is bad. There are no sanctions in the final provisions or in any other member if the management of the work is wrong with what with this administration if the editorial work is bad, what can the Croatian Parliament do according to that administration and that editorial office? So is the Attorney General's Office. What is the Parliament doing now and what was it doing in the report of the attorney general? The occupier comes to the Assembly once a year, the Assembly either takes note or accepts what the occupier says. And then what happens? Nothing. Nothing at all. We wait for the next report, we wait for next year, and we always say the same thing that should be changed and in what way. And now that we're changing, we're not changing well. The public defender is a shoulder to cry on, the attorney general is treated as if in this House not as his own body but as a foreign body, as a welcome body. In fact, the power of the attorney general comes from the Parliament. It is important to ask whether the Parliament has the power or whether the Parliament is what we Croatian Labourists often claim only the body that raises hands is not the head, but the body that raises hands. It's hard here, colleagues are often in replicas not able to respond, it's hard to defend the law when someone imposes it, prescribes it, and when you disagree with it, and you have to somehow fit in with your argument that how much you have a calm conscience and yet you have to support that law. It's really impossible, it's very hard to do. First of all, the problem is that in the Croatian Parliament the power of defenders springs from the power of the Croatian Parliament. If the Croatian Parliament has no power if everything is in the government if we have all the power as it says ten days ago here in the Croatian Parliament of the Prime Minister Mr Milanovic, that he is a semi-cancer, that in Croatia there is a semi-cancellary system. The fact that Mr Milanovic violated the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia did not even worry anyone, there was no comment, no one even stood up against it. It is perfectly normal that the Constitution is not respected, in order to then respect what the Ombudsman must or may do. Basically, the Croatian Labourists have made amendments to this law. The amendments are very simple. Those who disobey the request of the attorney general should bear sanctions. What sanctions? They need to be replaced. If that's not there, if there's no fines and there's no possibility of replacements, that law is a dead letter on paper. Let's not even bring it. He doesn't mean anything. As you were convinced, how much did the attorney general write to the authorities of the administration and self-government and what did he get? Nothing. What happened to these people? Nothing. And to whom he will now appeal, a body that also treats the servile defender as well as those bodies that he should punish. Government of the So without the possibility that people who don't respect the questions of an attorney general who doesn't answer to be held accountable by this law means nothing. Now the question is to get back to the beginning of the debate, should we unite under one roof of the regiment's defence, the defence in general? I'm sure you should. It needs to be rationalized, it needs to be more efficient, so it'll be cheaper, but it'll be more efficient. I suppose these defenders will agree, I guess these defenders will discuss how to become stronger, how to become more efficient, how to address the Parliament, how to protect their rights and obligations here in the Parliament. However, it all seems to me that both the offices and the secretaries and the cars and some special rights and some powers that do not concern the rights of those who should defend the Ombudsman. Yeah, sure, why don't we also have an assistant attorney general for defenders and consumers, but let's make them assistants and figure out how many assistants they can be. This law has no purpose if we haven't made a strategy, and we don't have much strategy, so we don't even have a human rights strategy that's a fundamental right. So I appeal to know that it's only an appeal, I'm sorry that this law is an emergency procedure because I don't see any reason for urgency, because nothing will happen after that urgency except that we're going to bring back another letter that's dead, which is only on paper and in a year or maybe just before, again we're going to talk about how the attorney general doesn't have the authority, how the attorney general ignores the bodies of the administration and the local self-government, and how the public defender is actually the shoulder to cry. And what does that mean? Well, it's not about the servile defender. It is about people whose rights he should protect, it is about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who we say no here in the Croatian Parliament, we will pass a formalist law and we have fulfilled our obligation. Well, we didn't fill it. By raising your hands on Friday, you will smile again, actually grinning at the public face and saying, yes, we have passed a law that means nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10335	Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Vuksic, I agree with you mainly on emergency procedures. So such an important law, a law that didn't come into force because the Constitutional Court said that there was not enough majority of votes, so important organic law, that we are now after that in an emergency procedure but about that. Secondly, I would agree with your proposed amendment, certainly that sanctions should be provided if we want the handling of the Ombudsman as the authority of the Croatian Parliament to have some weight. And it is clear that this law should have been released in a regular procedure, first of all because we have a number of amendments from the SDP club itself and the SDP advocates, but also amendments that certainly do not go in the right direction and that should not be accepted because we all agree that the Ombudsman must be politically independent of any political option and independent in his work. So then this bill determined that the candidate for the occupier should not be a member of the political party and that he should not perform a public political function in the presidential bodies and authorities of the executive authority in the last five years. The SDP club and SDP MPs suggest that this item 7 be deleted, so it remains that only one candidate for the ombudsman should not be a member of the political party. If you remember in the previous law, it was envisaged that he should not be a member of the political party back several years, which was what a completely political independent person wanted to choose. What this amendment allows is for someone to step down from a political party in which he was extremely politically active by yesterday, either in the executive body, to step down from the political party the moment he is running for the attorney general or deputy attorney general, which would certainly not be good and politically impartial.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10337	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. Representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10338	Comrade Lovrin, we agree on almost everything. Yes, the biggest mistake is this government, the government, the Kukuriku coalition, which is what everything needs and doesn't need, and it has the right to do so, sends by emergency procedure here to the Parliament and that we don't have the opportunity, and they don't even have opportunities for colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition to react, talk, but they simply have to comply with the party's path. The emergency procedure has proved to be a huge mistake on this bill. And you were saying something about the attorney general's independence. How can a civil defender be self-sufficient if he doesn't have any power? He's actually a formally appointed person, so Sweden has and we have, we're right next to Sweden. So we have an attorney general. Which means P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P-P. Which means that when every chief of staff of any office in the municipality, every official in the ministry doesn't have to answer any questions, there's no need to send the information requested by the attorney general, nothing. But if he can be removed, if he can be fined, he'll do it because no one wants to lose a job and no one wants to cut short on his pay and so little. If the government doesn't adopt these amendments, it just means what I said before, that she's fucking with the attorney general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10339	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10340	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Reputed deputy with associate, fellow MPs. I was going to start my individual debate with what my two predecessors were talking about, and that's actually before that, the representative of the HDZ Representatives Club, the need for an emergency procedure. I don't see the point, given that everyone, but literally everyone, I don't believe that I missed someone, all and one speaker who spoke today gave on behalf of the club, gave in their own name in individual debates, everyone stressed the importance of this institution, the constitutional category, how important it is for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who we want to achieve and ultimately all together must go into emergency procedure. It's really not compatible with each other, and I definitely think it's going the wrong way. I don't see why some things have to break over their knees just to prove that the ruling coalition has an absolute majority and that it can do what it wants. We're all aware of that, they're aware of that and the citizens, but not all of it, maybe there's some smart suggestion to hear from this side no matter what the opposition is, so don't do it all in such a gruesome way. What's been going through a lot of these discussions are the attachments, the attachments of specialized lawyers to the attorney general. Just as a note, the Ombudsman is a constitutional category, these defenders are a legal category. I therefore think that their category level is rising, that is, their category, and they bear a part of it, and why they would not also become the deputy defenders of these resolutions that they are covering, that is, by these specialities that they are now covering. In addition to his colleague’s point of view and I absolutely agree with that, the organisational form itself is not crucial to the quality of work. They're the most common floscules. Someone here said that human rights don't have a price, they don't have a price, but don't mustache it doesn't have anything to do with each other. It's not about how you organize, how you work, the quality of work, it's not about this case with human rights. It's just now like a flossula, and there's no room in that story at all. A colleague of Tomasic, Mrs Tomasic, said very conveniently that one law should be included that would oblige all of us to report ourselves if we violate a law. It's to be realistic a little utopian. But what's realistic is, if we want the attorney general and all the other lawyers to have the weight, to have some power, to have the power, then let's accept those two amendments proposed by the Labour Club, and in the SDP debate, they've just gone in that direction that it's necessary to give him quality work. Which is worth it if the ministry, regardless of which it deprives the public defender of information, and he delivers his opinion to the government that there is a minister sitting in that same government who has not acted on what his legal obligation is. Exactly the cadiya's suing you, the cadiya's judging you, and it's no use. A few months ago, a respected colleague, Stazic, said in a rather bile debate, time has passed which he imposed, that is, the way the HDZ did, we are now taking political responsibility and we will have a political responsibility and a minister who has done something wrong, that is, his man whom he appoints if he does something wrong, the political responsibility will also be borne by the minister. Let's put it into this category now and political responsibility. So why don't someone who's denied information twice to the attorney general, which is, which is his duty, which is why, normally, to the intervention of the attorney general, why wouldn't that minister's impeachment be initiated, the mayor doesn't matter, any one who violates it? In order for the Ombudsman to work on these levels, as mentioned in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and all other Scandinavian countries should also give him the instrument to do so, he needs to be given a tool. We now have a chance to give him the tools to put these two amendments in place, and that's why I think it would be completely different to be treated and treated differently. A colleague, Grubisic, also mentioned a controversial detail about the number of deputies, at least three. Well, I'm not going to be bad enough to say that there's a possibility of reducing the number of unemployed, but a really unserious finding of at least three. Well, I guess something limits to the most, not the least. At least three and now if it's gonna be what I've got my best man, I've got some cousin, so let's get him in. He's got an adequate training kit, so we're going to expand because no one's been limiting me. A little, if nothing else, at least it's not serious. And as for the yet-again-the-respected representative Tomasic, however, found that the attorney general was actually just a shoulder for crying to the citizens. But I've gotten the impression that this House is also his shoulder to cry about because it has come down to the fact that we've heard five recommendations here, that we're miserable and we can't do what he can do about it because it's simply not the Parliament that decides, the government decides. The government may suggest certain things and then see that we are getting amendments, or amendments from this structure, so I doubt anything will be accepted. But a little seriousness might not hurt in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10341	Thank you very much. We have five replicas on your exhibit. Representative Branko Vuksic first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10342	Here's a respected colleague, Novak, that the attorney's office would be stronger if it were united, let's say he had a joint professional service, that he had a joint team of lawyers, means they worked together, that they had a common strategy. Prior to you, colleague Holly said that long-term sanctions should be considered and several colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition said that sanctions should be considered. Why think about sanctions when you have paper on your desk? Just read it, that paper, and raise your hands for because exactly, Croatian laborers have suggested what you were saying. And this is what you were talking about at least three assistant deputy attorney generals. In such a system with such powers and with this influence in society, none should be required. But think about withdrawing the law from the procedure, not voting it and correcting it, supplementing it and making a serious law that will really be not for the sake of the MP but for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10343	Thank you. We have further replicas, MP Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10344	Thank you. Here I haven't actually been able to reach out to MP Vuksic for the replica, so here I am with Novak, and I would actually support the debates both of them and my thoughts are in a similar direction. Therefore, the very quality and authority of the attorney general is by no means promoted by this bill, but it is actually further promoted and increased by this administrative state inefficient apparatus. And surely that this office that it is united, that it has been given powers and that it deals with all the segments that today's specialised defenders have been more effective and stronger and practically better able to stand up to all those who violate human rights regardless of what this is about. On the other hand, it's almost ridiculous in the context of the bill's proposal to state that representatives of the specialised defence attorneys consider it better if they stay. Well, of course, it's better that they stay when I think that they actually think more about their position as a person who's certainly better than if they were added to one office. However, this office could be both better and more effective and more efficient and functional, and if these certain strict provisions were added to the infringements of the measures prescribed by the Ombudsman at that time, the Ombudsman could finally be more effective in his work, i.e. the overall office could be more effective. And I'm going back to the economic question – why? Well, because someone mentioned I'm back in Sweden and Denmark and these countries, and they're all kind of showing the financial effects of some measure. So perhaps our legislators should also show the financial effects of certain measures or what these measures would look like in another form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10345	Thank you. We have an answer, Agent Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10346	Thank you very much. To be honest, I responded to the answer based on your beginning when you said that the organisational form is not important, or it is not crucial for the quality of the work which is done by the attorney general by these specialised attorneys. I wanted to point out that there is essentially that instrument that we have proposed, and that is also a criminal and political responsibility that would further, not further, but in fact it is the only instrument that guarantees that the quality of this work will have some feedback effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10347	Thank you. Next to the replica, MP Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10348	Dear colleague Novak, you have well noted that under certain circumstances, the Ombudsman should react in the sense of certain statements or statements or actions that the structure of the government may express or do. Here's an example, just to be exact. Namely, tell me, should the Attorney General respond to a statement that peasants are parasites? Which is publicly spoken, further, the question here is another statement, ethical neutrality in the death of two people, that it should be ethically neutral. So that's what you're talking about some kind of political responsibility and political responsibility, so it's all about politics and a public defender. In order not to make these kinds of events a little bit out of the ruling structure and those who lead this country and the bodies of local and regional self-government. And one more thing, when you were talking about at least three, I was the first person to pull up a pay phone, at least three deputies. I wonder, and you're obviously wondering, isn't that going to be after that Vinkovic guy's "The Godfather is right, I've got the deputy attorney general's seat, so let him come." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10349	Thank you. We have an answer, Agent Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10350	Thank you very much. Since I was asked the question, I should have the attorney general react to you now, you have listed several cases where, where the rights of citizens have been violated, or even more so, this is purely demeaning. Well, now I would, even if I knew you couldn't answer me, and now I would ask you if there was any point in him reacting when he couldn't do anything, when there was no effect, when no reaction would result in some real shifts. He will be aware that he will cease to ignore him, unfortunately, the prime minister who used one of those statements and who will appeal to, Vlad? I mean, or a certain minister if he complains, then he complains to the government where that same minister is sitting. There are no criminal or political responsibilities. So I'm not sure if there's a point in doing something under the current law, and I'm not sure if this new one is going to adopt these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10351	Thank you, too. Next up for Replicator Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10352	Thank you. He would refer to these frequent criticisms of the appointment of three or more assistants of the occupier. In fact, as far as I was present on the Legislative Committee, it was said during the extension that it was just from the office of the occupier of the day of the suggestion not to limit the number because the institution of the occupier is evolving it is developing. And we have seen through historical development in two centuries it has evolved significantly since the beginning of 1809 in Sweden. So here and here, according to the new law, the attorney general will still, no matter what you claim, have strengthened powers, the responsibility of the head of the body is stronger, strengthened, more determined. In further evolution, she may also be strict, depending. In Sweden, for example, there is almost no one, some great sanctions, not even the conditions to refer to what Mrs. Lovrin was saying. Nor are the conditions required by the Advocate General in the sense that it must be, that it must be a graduate lawyer because it is common in practice to be one of the leaders of a senior judicial body. With that in mind, I would take the opportunity to look back on this from Mrs. Lovrin, who, in her replica, took advantage of the discussion and referred to that, so you also looked back on that in terms of being...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10353	You're replicating your colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10354	Right, I'm replicating, but I'm also getting attached to what was said before...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10355	You can't make out, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Please concentrate on Mr. Novak's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10356	Therefore, I would like to point out for the purpose of refuting the assumption that this provision to which the amendment has been addressed is, that it is for the purpose of politicisation to enable former members of political parties, or political bodies, so that they, that they, that they, may be in the position of the attorney general. Because just now, it was my one initiative and a proposal to the Legislative Committee, in terms of constitutional provisions, that every public position and every public function was worthy of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia under equal conditions, was becoming a danger, therefore, that this was being refuted in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10357	Time, buddy. Thanks, buddy. We've got the next one, we've got the answer to the replica. Representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10358	Thank you very much. My colleague, I don't mind strengthening the position of the attorney general, but it has nothing to do with the number of deputies. It has nothing to do with each other. It has nothing to do with irony. It has something to do with a colleague of Vinkovic's, when he called the godfather. As soon as you don't have a precise limit, as long as it's inconceivable, then I don't think it has anything to do with anything and that, let's be honest, so let's say, what I do know is there are a few segments, so, okay, there are 5, 5 specific deputies and they're going to cover 5 areas and that's that. But now this has only a limit on the bottom, and from the top there's no, just the sky limits, it really doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10359	And another replica, Agent Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his presentation, Novak said and reiterated what many other colleagues have said that the system and organisation really don't matter, we just think the opposite is very important and that it's really the key. And if we create a good system, it means that the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia will be respected. No matter what segment it is, the system is very important, although you have a well-assembled system, it is actually irrelevant who does the job, which is the party in power, it is completely irrelevant because the system works. We must strive to ensure that in the Republic of Croatia the system works that the laws adopted by the Council of the Republic of Croatia are implemented and that we from the Assembly have to send such a message. The laws we pass must be implemented, that's one thing, and another thing to be called upon if the head of the local self-government unit or regionals doesn't respond to the Ombudsman so there will be sanctions for him to be replaced. Because... You know what kind of law we have in which the heads of the local self-government unit are elected and that according to the current law, the mayors and the mayors are virtually immeasurable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that we were saying that this relationship between the legislative body means the municipal council, or the city council with the mayor and the mayor is not well-organized and that we can only choose him by referendum. So that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10361	Thank you. Perhaps only one explanation would be given to the vacancy of the attorney general, the mere law, the articles of the Constitution, Article 93. It's all clear. Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10362	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Generally known is the fact that the Law on the Ombudsman is on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament only because it was adopted last year with a lack of majority of votes by parliamentary deputies, and the Constitutional Court's decision found that it cannot enter into force before the majority of the votes of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament are adopted since it is an organic law. The deadline for adoption of this law is 30.6. this year. So on Saturday, we should vote on Friday. As it is well known, this law envisioned a comprehensive reshuffle of the Croatian Ombudsman so that the existing special defences for children, gender equality and persons with disabilities would also be in the jurisdiction of the attorney general. The meaning and reason of such a solution stemmed from the need not only to rationalise but also to strengthen the general social visibility of the institution of the Public Attorney's Office, and it was also on the trail of Paris principles that were adopted in 1991 at the First International Conference of National Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Fundamental Rights. In addition, the single institution of the Ombudsman was advocated by the attorneys of Central and Eastern Europe and the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Council of Europe in 2000, holding that the existence of specialised lawyers could weaken the general defenders and cause confusion of the public, and just as we heard in today's debates in the Republic of Croatia. It has also been said that during the period of transition and financial uncertainty, it would be rational to direct all available resources to the Office of the existing national Ombudsman, and to appoint deputies for specific issues. When we talk about the reasons for financial uncertainty and the need for rationalisation, I do not have to point out in particular that these reasons are more present today than they were in 2000 in view of the economic situation. And that the Ombudsman institution is still unrecognizable as the central authority responsible for fighting discrimination on any basis shows also a recent public opinion survey carried out by the Office of the Ombudsman on the ombudsman's pages.hr in the public opinion studies, resulting in the fact that there are still too many citizens who do not actually recognize the institution they would address in the event of discrimination. This Law will, in all likelihood, not significantly change the existing situation, nor will it be a step or a better step in rationalising the institutions of the state administration. However, this law opens up the possibility of the accumulation of the deputy attorney general, as Article 12(1) states that the Ombudsman has at least three deputies, while the law in force found that the Ombudsman had three deputies. What does this mean, at least three? Does that mean we're going to have five, six tomorrow or I don't know how many deputy attorney generals? Knowing that this is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman and that the majority of parliament are, in all likelihood, opting for this way of organising the institution of the Ombudsman in the Republic of Croatia, that change is actually only happening for the sake of change, and that essentially nothing changes. That is what I propose to keep at least the number of deputy occupiers in the current number so that the institutions of the deputy occupier are not a way and a place to take care of the merits of party personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10363	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10364	That's a nice way to put it. In fact, you've said the role of attorney general so far has actually been unrecognizable, quote. So, what has contributed to that impression of the citizens? This led to the end result, so the effectiveness of the reconnaissance and other measures of the occupier did not lead to the expected results of those who addressed the occupier, and then we have the results that 430 people turned to the occupier annually, or the person addressed the occupier, and that at 4 million and 300,000 inhabitants was zero, I don't know how many percent. It is expected that in a country where nepotism, clientism, corruption and all other forms of corruption and human rights are still ruled out by this number to be far greater. But unfortunately, the attorney general with his assistants or deputies who will be, I don't know how much Vinkovic's teaching halo godfather will remain most likely on several hundred applications, submissions to the Ombudsman, and then we wonder what it is really if it's ineffective what it serves the state of Croatia in the first place. I said once here that it was actually a legal ficus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10365	Thank you, too. We don't have an answer. The next representative of Denesh Shaw. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. We're done with that. I'd like to ask Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10366	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs, thank you very much for the debate. I will briefly look back on what you said, and before that, I will stress my personal impression and attitude. So it has been a great pleasure for me to work on the proposal of this law because it is the result of activity, good practice of work. I will challenge this claim and the recognizability of the work of the attorney general and not only him but also the special counsel. So, compared to the law that was in force from '92. We are passing, or proposing this law on the basis of the fact that the Attorney General is doing his job. This law is not adopted in order to regulate something in advance, but to put its practice normatively into certain frameworks and to provide a regulated system as set out for further action. And it is precisely the work of the attorney general and the special defenders that the normative framework should provide certain activities, engagements, energy and work and efforts, and you will find it difficult to dispute the fact that both the special prosecutor and the ombudsman are doing so. They certainly do. In relation to this question that is repeated about whether or not to connect, I'm going to add three more reasons that they haven't mentioned, I think they're very important. Therefore, one who calls for rationalisation with the claim that the merger of the Ombudsman would lead to certain savings should submit certain calculations and analyses in this regard. We have not seen such analyses either in the previous 2011 proposal or now. So just normatively determining that something is going to connect doesn't mean that savings will automatically be made. Another reason that is extremely important, I think that even most important, we, citizens' rights and the rights of vulnerable groups, do not consider the instrument that we have used to close some chapters and end negotiations. When we had negotiations, we had certain recommendations that should be done, how certain institutions should be strengthened. So we had a recommendation for empowering the Office for Gender Equality regarding women’s rights in relation to work and in relation to Chapter 19. We closed that chapter, we accepted that obligation, and now we're on the idea that a special prosecutor for gender equality is being joined by a public defender. I don't think that's what we've been seeking in the negotiations and that this proves that our seriousness in accession negotiations hasn't been fully implemented. The third reason we mentioned in part, and it is very important in terms of the economic crisis, and it concerns the fact that these very categories of population that are now special defenders, so disabled persons, regardless of where children are in crisis situations, become the first victims of discrimination or unfair treatment. And precisely because these conditions are now in crisis before us, their protection is considered necessary. The urgency of the procedure is something we insist on precisely because of your tasks. So, the mandate of the occupier's staff stands out in November this year, the parliament was now due to launch a procedure to elect a new lawyer. I'll point out in applying the '92 law. If we want to strengthen its function, then it would be good for both choice and the newly elected Ombudsman to act under the law that is in accordance with the Constitution. And that, in my opinion, is the basic reason for urgency, and as far as we've explained the protection of human rights in the full sense of the Constitution. There have been questions about sanctioning non-response of complaints from the attorney general. Yes, during the work group we also developed a variant that included infringements and which in this sense sanctioned certain novelties, so the possibility to regulate public law enforcement relations towards the attorney general. However, in the end, the view prevailed that there is still room for awareness of all citizens and, of course, public authorities' employees on the importance of human rights protection and on the role of the attorney general. We are witnesses and it is rare that sanctions themselves will not lead to what is called awareness of the need to protect human rights. So, someone in silence may pay the penalty of a misdemeanor and continue as it were. And it's not a rare case. So here we wanted to get to the level that exists with regard to this often mentioned Sweden, so that we have our own responsibility without sanctions, so we have to get out of ourselves the obligation to respect what is required in relation to the protection of human rights, so that on our obligation to manifest ourselves and to give to the attorney general everything we need to do to end up in the protection of human rights. So there's this last category of government addressing and political responsibility, yes, the real political responsibility with which we're just now getting a little experience. So far, we haven't really had it in our political life, but I believe that we will have it and the political responsibility will really show which direction we really want to go. We're going to have a lot of amendments, and I don't think there's any obstacle at all, but I'm glad that we've caused a reaction and that we have so many amendments that we're going to consider, now I'm seeing some of them we're not going to accept, but in any case we're going to be very clear on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10367	Thank you, too. Finally, no one. That concludes the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10369	I'll talk to you. First, the SDP Representatives Club shall be referred to in Article 7(3). Behind the word of righteousness is added the point and the words of equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10370	The Proposer shall accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10371	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. The second amendment of MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, withdrawn. Thank you very much. The third amendment is to the representative of Furia Radina on Article 9(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10372	The Proposer does not accept this amendment, so if I may, I would now give an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10373	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10374	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft law shall comply with the provisions of the laws governing access to information and the confidentiality of data and with the provisions of Article 8(1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the confidentiality of information. These laws are in line with the proposed Law on the Public Attorney, so-called lex specialis. The proposed provision does not restrict the right of the Advocate General to obtain information of any type and degree of secrecy of protection since the Ombudsman is authorised to exercise this right in accordance with the provisions of Article 18. The law on the confidentiality of data, and for the unlimited right of access by the Civilian Ombudsman to classified data, intervention in Article 20 would be necessary. In order to avoid conflict with the different legal rules governing the same law and at the moment of the conflict, the law on the confidentiality of data would be dominated by lex specialis, and then it should be amended rather than the Law on the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10375	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10376	This whole argument would hold water if that provision that I now propose as an amendment were not contained in the previous law in 2011. So it was contained in the 2011 Public Attorney's Law. It hasn't changed much since. I don't think this government and this Parliament are in the best interest of taking steps back in the work of the attorney general. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10377	Thank you very much. We can plead by raising our hands. Who's in favour of the amendment of a representative of Furia Radina that the government doesn't accept? Thank you very much. I'm realizing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No 4 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 11?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10378	The Proposer accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10379	Thank you very much. Amendment number five has been withdrawn. We are going to Amendment 6 of the Club of Representatives of HSU item 2 of Article 12?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10380	The proposer does not accept this amendment with the following explanation. The proposed amendment seeks to remove the alleged ambiguity of whether the candidate for the Ombudsman is due within 30 days of the expiry of the time limit for the application for a public invitation to the selection of the Advocate General. So even when the vacancy attorney has not yet been elected, or has been required by the occupier to make a public call for the application of candidates for deputy vacancy attorneys. And it is only 30 days from the deadline for the application of a public invitation to the deputy staff attorney to propose to the Assembly of persons for the functions of deputies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final draft of the law clearly states that the Ombudsman will propose to the Croatian Assembly the candidates for the deputy occupier within 30 days of the expiry of the time limit for a public call cannot be interpreted as not being able to interpret that candidates for the occupier will not be proposed by the deputys or the deadline of 30 from the end of the time limit for a public call may be linked to the deadline for a public call for the selection of the ombudsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10381	Thank you very much. Representative of the club, respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10382	Dear Deputy, I would like to believe that what you said is true and that is if you look at article 12 separately and article 34 separately. It is very clear to each individual, however, if you put them at odds with that clarity, if you put those two articles in co-ordination. So our intention was not to clarify an individual article but to make the whole picture clear in interpreting the ratios of Articles 12 and 34, and otherwise we do not doubt that the article is particularly 12 and 34, but when you put them together, they do not. But look, I'm not going to ask for a vote, if it's okay for you and I will be, I'm just afraid I have one principled objection to watch, the Croatian Parliament's mandate is the Ministry of Justice. It would still make sense to me that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system here is the legislator. This does not go to you but to our entire system because he is indeed the authority of the Croatian Parliament and I think that the frameworks should not be given to him by executive authority. Thank you very much. I'm giving up this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10383	Thank you very much. We are going to Amendment 7 of the SDP Representatives Club on Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10384	The Proposer shall accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10385	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number eight has been withdrawn. Amendment 9 has been withdrawn. Amendment No 10 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10386	The Proposer shall accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10387	Thank you very much. Amendment No 11 of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10388	The Proposer shall accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10389	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment number 12 Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10390	The applicant does not accept this amendment. The explanation is as follows. The provisions of Article 24 of the proposed law gave power to the Advocate General to inform the authority responsible for the exercise of supervision of the authorities referred to in Article 4 in the event that the same authorities do not ensure the availability of information or do not supply the requested information, acts and other documentation within that period. Therefore, the authority responsible for the supervision of these bodies will be informed by the Ombudsman that the requested tasks have not been carried out. A further measure is envisaged and this is the reporting of the Croatian Parliament, public reporting. These two powers of the Advocate General shall comprise, in substance, the amendment to the proposed measure of initiation of the procedure, the replacement of the head of the body concerned. It's about whether it should be replaced by a civil defender or a supervisory body. We believe that the authority of the supervisory authority means the possibility of the supervisory authority to initiate a procedure for the replacement of the head of the body or for one who has not responded to the request of the attorney general. This authority is in charge of the exercise of supervision, and the public consultation measure is then also contained in that authority that the Advocate General reports Parliament and the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10391	Thank you very much. Representative of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10392	If I hadn't heard the reason for the rejection of the amendment, it would have been easier for me. First of all, it is not true that we have proposed that the Ombudsman initiates the procedure rather than that he has the right to propose to initiate proceedings against the leader. And in Article 34, 35, you have submitted proposals to initiate proceedings against all but the head of the body that has sinned at the request of the Advocate General. That's what you have in law for officers and tenants. We've intervened with an amendment where we're giving the attorney general a tool to propose the procedure when it comes to the head of the body. Now that you really don't understand what we're proposing or you've read the authority. If you consider that the Ombudsman may not have the right to propose an action against the leader as you have given him the same right, along with such an explanation for all those who are under the head of the wrong-doing body. You gave him the right and the suggestion of criminal, criminal and disciplinary proceedings, again not the leader but everyone below them. So, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment because the explanation is more terrible than the fact that you don't want to give it to the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10393	Thank you very much. I suggest that by raising our hands, we plead for the amendment of the Croatian Labour Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Okay, thank you. You don't need to vote, you didn't get the necessary majority. 13th, Amendment of Representative Furia Radina to Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10394	The proposer does not accept this amendment. It is therefore that the amendment proposes to oblige, or to release, the Advocate General to draw up a report on those situations in which he has not established a violation of the right, so unless he has established a violation of the right not to draw up a report. The proposal is not accepted because the word "in which it has established a violation of the right in paragraph 1 would be added." This article was found contrary to the provision of paragraph 2 of the same article, which reads: "The content report shall contain a description of the facts and circumstances of the case under consideration, an assessment of whether or not the constitutional or legal rights of the applicant have been violated, and how the threat or violation of the right has been committed. That provision does not require the Advocate General to draw up any comprehensive reports and in the event that he has not established a breach of the right or is subject to additional administrative transactions. So that report must certainly be drawn up, and the scope of the report is, of course, its jurisdiction. The amendment is groundlessly explained by such reasons, therefore the report on the finding that no violation of the rights of citizens has been achieved is actually part of the ombudsman's jurisdiction and they cannot be considered to be less important jobs. So if a violation of the right is not established, it is a matter concerning all of us, i.e. the jurisdiction of the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10395	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10396	In fact, this amendment, which was also proposed by the current occupier, we wanted to help the occupier to cope with the crowd of complaints and, of course, to work deeply only on those who prove themselves to be established. I accept your argument, however, so I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10397	Thank you very much. We are going to Amendment 14 of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities to Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10398	The applicant shall adopt those amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10399	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment No. 15, Honorable Representative Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10400	The Proposer does not accept these amendments concerning the addition of new legal provisions for repealing and repealing the administrative procedure solution. In the light of the publication of Article 15 of the final proposal for a law under which the Advocate General makes recommendations, opinions, proposals and warnings to the authorities referred to in Article 4 of the Law, we consider that giving authority to the Advocate General to submit proposals for repealing or abolishing the decision on the administrative procedure, i.e. to renew the administrative procedure does not contribute to the exercise of the party's right to the proceedings. The Advocate General would be authorised to submit these proposals under the same conditions as the party, and according to his procedural powers, he is also authorised to perform as an interface with an unequivocally active legitimate party whose rights are at stake, and we therefore consider that only his interference with the party that achieves the annulment, abolition or renewal of the procedure is sufficient to guarantee that, by mixing with it, he will exercise his/her task of protecting human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10401	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10402	Now this is about one important amendment again. We are going back to the 2011 Law this House voted, but the Constitutional Court has disputed only because there were not enough votes, there was one vote missing, that was the reason. And otherwise what I'm talking about right now was contained in that law. Therefore, the 2011 Law on the Ombudsman gave the Ombudsman authority to submit proposals for the annulment or abolition of a solution in the administrative procedure and after the expiry of the appeal period and to submit proposals for renewal of the proceedings when it was found that the rights of the complainant were violated. I still claim that by acting in the protection of human rights, we must move forward, not backwards. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10403	Thank you very much. Please state by raising your hand who's in favor of Amendment No. 15th which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm realizing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 16. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10404	The applicant does not accept this amendment. In fact, it is proposed to add a sentence that the Ombudsman can set up a Human Rights Council. Under the final proposal of the Law, the Council for Human Rights of the Ombudsman is an advisory body which discusses and proposes strategic guidelines in the field of promoting human rights and freedoms, ensuring continued co-operation in the field of human rights and freedom between civil society, civil society, academic community and media, and considering other issues of importance for the work of the Ombudsman and the area of human rights promotion and freedom. It is important that, under the provision of paragraph 2 of the same article, the members of the council shall be appointed by the Advocate General at the time of the 4th year as we have proposed. Therefore, paragraph 2 of this Article gives rise to the fact that the Council for Human Rights is appointed by the Advocate General. So we consider adding this sentence to the previous item unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10405	Thank you very much. Representative of the HSU Club, respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10406	I'd like to get an answer to a provocative question about whether the arraignment attorney will be able to handle the consequences if he doesn't have his own Council for Human Rights. Because our intensities were that the promoter couldn't in any way commit a vengeful lawyer to having a council of human rights for the attorney general. What if he's a random expert in that part? Then I trust him and he doesn't need too much. So we wanted to, or suggest that it exists as a possibility, not as an obligation, because it says not to make it clear that there is a advice, you and these people make up advice. However, given that you are this attitude and since you are bound and our next amendments I withdraw Amendment 16, 17 and 19 so that we do not bother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10407	Thank you, Your Honor. Then let's go to Amendment No. 18. Croatian Labour Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10408	That amendment proposes infringement provisions in addition to the text we have proposed. We don't accept this amendment. It has been assessed that the introduction of amendments to the proposed infringement provisions does not lead to the objectives for which the institution of the Ombudsman was founded and for which it operates, which is to protect fundamental human rights. More important than the threat or determination of criminal sanctions, we consider raising the level of awareness of the legal system and society as a whole about the need for real cooperation on the achievement, promotion and protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10409	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10410	Yeah, this is very interesting. And now possible threats, violations, disrespect of the Ombudsman as the authority of the Croatian Parliament is less important, and it is important to raise awareness. And then we've got a report from the occupier's attorney-general that lists government bodies that don't show up and don't match the vacancy attorney. Well not only the state, but the local, so the legal people with public authority and no one. Most of them are progressing, promoted, received various state recognitions and awards, praised, and the representative of the Croatian Parliament for the protection of the promotion of human rights and civil liberties is not responding. And imagine now sanctioning a fine is less important than raising awareness. It is interesting that such infringement provisions in the laws of their civil defenders have some EU members where the awareness of this is far greater than in Croatia and it is interesting that this same proposal by the current civil defender offered the working group the basis of his own experience so that it would be good to be incorporated into the law, but you have again estimated that he knows less, all of you, than the one who, in two terms, was a public defender and what solution in the law would raise that awareness to a higher level. I'm asking you to find some excess next time in the explanation of the amendment's rejection. If someone who has been doing this job for two terms and tells you that this would be a good solution for raising awareness, and we offer you what is the problem? You're afraid someone's going to be punished if they don't respect the institution of the attorney general. That he would pay five thousand kuna fines so that everyone else would be more aware that he could be welcomed tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10411	Time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10412	Very hot. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10413	Thank you. Please state by raising your hand of amendment number 18. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm realizing he didn't get the necessary majority. I find that amendment number 19 of the HSU representative club has been withdrawn. So we move on to amendment number 20 of SDP representatives, to Article 37.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10414	The applicant accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10415	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal, Amendment 21 has been withdrawn, so we move on to Amendment 22 of the SDP Representatives Club, to Article 38.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10416	The Proposer shall accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10417	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. That's how we exhausted the list of amendments. I hereby conclude the debate and put to the vote the final draft law in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10418	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10419	The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs. I ask that by raising my hand, we plead to the proposed law with the amendments that have been accepted. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I confirm that most of the votes were passed by the Law on the Ombudsman in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. I am well warned that I must stress the result, so from 83 votes to 27 votes against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10420	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the Multiannual Funding Agreement 2007-2010, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 102. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? You got it. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10421	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Respect for Parliamentarians and MPs. Here's a short time to know what this Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is about. The multiannual financing agreement between the European Commission and the European Communities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia confirmed the law on the agreement in question and established EU aid for the period 2007-2010. This agreement lays down the EU's financial commitments to the Republic of Croatia for 2011 amounting to 26m and 500m euros, and puts some expressions in line with the Lisbon Treaty. For example. The European Community is being changed to the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities is being changed to the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10422	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10423	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Deputy Minister of Agriculture. Here, allow me to say a few sentences on behalf of the HDZ Club concerning this Law confirming the Agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the multiannual financing agreement. I would like first of all to say that this is something that is good, which is good, because it is practically an additional year to extend the time limit for using IPARD funds or funds from the IPARD programme for our agricultural producers. Let me say that it was created on the basis of the signed agreement of 10 October 2011 when an agreement was signed amending and supplementing the Multiannual Funding Agreement 2007-2010 was signed. The agreement was signed on behalf of the European Commission by the Director-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Jose Manuel Silva Rodriguez, and, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by my colleague Martina Dalic, Minister of Finance and here I am, in the capacity of then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The main objective of the signing of the agreement and the adoption of this law is to extend the time limit for the use of the IPARD programme for 2011. As the implementation and financing of the IPARD programme is subject to rule n+3 whereby n marks the current year and 3 years from the next three years in which the appropriations can also be used and, in accordance with those provisions, the financial resources will be planned in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012, 2013 and 2014. These changes and additions will affect the additions of the multiannual agreement, they will certainly aim, as I have already said, to extend the deadline for another year of use of the IPARD and can freely show greater use of the IPARD programme, the pre-accession programme. Here, let me now say a few sentences about the implementation of the IPARD program itself. The total financial resources available to Croatian farmers in IPARD amount to around 157m euros, of which 129m and 400 000 euros are spent on the EU, which accounts for around 75%, and the rest of the 25% is from the national budget. The IPARD programme is approved by the European Commission, the IPARD programme was adopted on 25 February 2008 and has so far had four amendments and additions. What to say about the changes? Well, first of all, I would like to stress that the changes were in the direction of creating better conditions for our farmers, that they were heading towards an increase in financial resources because the first programmed IPARD programme was practically more applied to micro and small economies which, by implementing the programme, realized that these economies would not be able to withdraw all these financial resources and through these four changes were going in the direction of creating and a larger financial framework so that the funds could be used. The IPARD programme has been implemented since 4.1.2010, where I have to say that this is a specific programme because the call for tenders, implementation of measures, processing and control of requests and payment to users is carried out by the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, for which it of course had to pass certain accreditation. The Rural Development Administration within the Ministry of Agriculture has the role of administrative directorate, i.e. the bodies which include programmes covering the development of programme proposals, the analysis of the situation, the problems and objectives, the measures, the budget and the amendment of the programme, the content of the programme, the negotiations with the European Commission. Up to now, a total of 20 tenders have been launched, out of which 7 tenders for measure 101, a measure of investment in agricultural economies, 7 tenders for measure 103, that is, investment in processing. From these two measures, the agency, the transfer of power to the agency, was in 11 months 2009. For a measure of 301 3 tenders have been opened so far, it is a rural infrastructure and for a measure of 302, diversification in non-agricultural activities, also 3 tenders and for these two measures the transfer of powers was carried out in 3 months 2011 and therefore you see for yourself that fewer tenders have been issued under these measures. When we talk about the total for all four measures, all four measures in all these 20 tenders were submitted a total of 495 applications, of which 182 requests were rejected, did not meet the requirements, 168 requests were made for the negotiation of projects, and in the processing there are 136 projects. When we look at these 168 agreed projects so far, when they are completed, a payment of 367 million 472 thousand kuna or about 1/3 of total funds should be made. In these 136 programmes, the projects that are under processing were hired 362 million 484 thousand kuna or more cca 1/3. So in total, we can say that the current state of engagement of funds somewhere at about 2/3 of the total funds. We often say that we are not too happy with the implementation of the IPARD program, but here I deliberately went with the presentation of these data because I am standing at the point of view that this change and the extension of the deadline that will get the conditions for the IPARD program to be fully used or almost entirely of these figures I would say in the best way and show it. But I would also like to point out that, in order to secure the funds from the IPARD programme, significant activities had to be taken, that our farmers had to change certain thinking inside I would say in their heads. Moreover, some national measures that were similar to IPARD programmes, which is investment support to capital investments, also had to be stopped and suspended and thus increased the interest in implementing the IPARD. Perhaps just the same fact in the first tender for measure 101 and 103 that of the total applications received, only 37.84% of the requirements with which the contract was made. The fourth tender for the same measures 101 and 103 of the total number of applications received was set at 79.55%. I think it's one good indicator that shows that here, over time and time, that both our farmers and all those who are in this function of implementing this IPARD program have been through a certain time that here has told them by which one great progress is seen. Why is it important to make the best use of IPARD funds? Well, it's important first of all because it's about significant financial resources that come in our agriculture. But what I am free to say even more importantly is that Croatia can also count on a financial envelope for rural development measures, which will be fully available to Croatian agriculture since 2014 at 333m euros. So, twice as much as we had available for IPARD. And that is why it is very important, and I want to use this same debate to further motivate our farmers, to go towards IPARD, that it is a school for them to implement subsequent rural development measures where, freely speaking, they will be extremely large financial resources available and that should significantly improve the situation I told Croatian agriculture and so on in the rural area itself. Here, and with that desire I end my debate. Once again, I would like to stress my confidence that we will have a great use of IPARD that, by some measures, it can already be mainly for measure 301. Explain that almost all those who have submitted requests that most likely there will not be so much funding that it will be able to be paid for the reasons that all the funds available to this end will be spent. But also, I believe that this will be the case with other measures, and I, in particular, repeat once again what we are expected in the near future to join the EU, and these are the huge financial resources that will be used in the best way possible. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10424	Thank you. No more registered on behalf of clubs or individually. Deputy Minister answered the word, Snježana Spain. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10425	Thank you very much. Thank you to the honourable parliamentary representative, Mr. Peter Cobankovic, for providing IPARD-related information, but I would just like to add something more to the IPARD. So we have extremely positive information about the use in view of the previous period. The fact is that there were about 45 to 50% of the funds available, however, the use of or payment after the end of the investment was only 3%. In total, 11 million kunas were paid from EU funds for IPARD by the end of last year, not the euro. In the first six months, we have coordinated with all ministries, environmental protection related to the environmental impact study, with HEP, with the Ministry of Economy in very intensive talks, maximumly removed the administrative barriers that existed for the issue of individual certificates and have already made payments of around 40 million kunas. By the end of this year, we still have announced payments and the end of investments for 70 million kunas so that we try not to see what happened to us in previous years, unfortunately the Republic of Croatia lost 25 million euros, which is because of the European Commission and their very slow procedures, which is because of us. With regard to measure 301, which was extremely difficult and we had, these are units of local self-government that have to implement a very complicated public procurement procedure according to European rules, which is actually a school for them, because once we join the EU, they will know how to do it. The competition closed at the end of May and we received 97 applications worth 317 million kuna. So in one joint work, we have created a positive climate and we will continue to do so and I have no doubt that we will have results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10426	Thank you. We have a correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Petar Cobanković. Here you go, buddy. What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10427	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'd like to correct is this quote that the esteemed deputy made about the percentage of the use, yes. I also said in the first competition is the percentage of projects that were submitted to those that were signed contracts, agreed 3,84. And of course it's a very small percentage, but already in the fourth competition for measure 101 and 103, which takes place in 2011 is that percentage 79.55%. It means that it has worked intensively on education, training and preparation for the more successful implementation of the programme. Of course, on the other hand, when it is known that the realisation of payments according to completed projects, and when it is known that the first projects have started, the first tenders started and were from 4.01 to 4.03. In 2010, then, of course, that charge cannot be in that dynamic, but it will now be more intense in the coming periods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10428	Thank you. This is what we're done with the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met and I'll set a recess by 3:00. We continue with the proposal of the Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10429	So let's go to the vote on the agendas already done. First of all, the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the Multiannual Finance Agreement 2007-2010, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 102. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law, and I'm asking you, by raising your hand, who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? There isn't. Does anyone have any abstentions? There isn't. I find that with 115 votes the law was passed unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10430	Our colleagues and colleagues continue with the point - Proposal for a Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining, first reading of PZ No. 96 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal? Minister of Labour and Pension System Prof. Dr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10431	Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. In front of you is the Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective complaints, which has already caused great media attention. Probably because it's a law that should have been passed long ago, so 15 years ago, it's trying to pass that law. We came to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System on the table and had six versions of that law. Among other things, one version of the law was written by a foreign expert from Brazil who also failed to lead to consensus because this law should reflect all the rules needed in the collective negotiation process itself. Therefore, the need for the adoption of this law stemmed from a negotiating process which detected that social partners in Croatia, especially trade unions, are not sufficiently prepared for social dialogue at European level. And what I've already pointed out is that law was supposed to be passed by the unions themselves. We held over twenty working group meetings involving government representatives, union representatives, representatives of all centres and employers. What I've been looking at lately on my e-mail is about 23 versions of the law itself. What I was talking about was that it was very difficult for the law itself to agree. Especially what union centers have advocated before, and now. And it's absolutely their legitimate right to defend their own interests. They defended different concepts and criteria, just to point out that in the Republic of Croatia we have registered 534 unions and 24 union centres that, according to the recent 2009 census, gather around 423 thousand members. Of the 42 sectors in which there is a bipartite sectoral dialogue at European level unfortunately, only 3 sectoral social councils have been formed in Croatia and only 1 at bipartite level. There are also very large differences between national representative union centres, and at least there are as many as 8 times fewer members than the largest, and some centres have only 1 employee. The current legislative framework prevents the rapid formation of the negotiating committees and thus makes it impossible for businesses to agree with workers to adapt to those other conditions, while counting union members for several months in certain sectors. The European Commission also warned of problems with collective bargaining at the last subcommittee on financial and economic issues and statistics. Let me just point out that at this point in time and in the country itself, we have collective bargaining, a basic collective contract for civil servants and tenants, it stands out 31.7. We have launched the negotiation process three months before the end of this basic collective agreement and what has always happened is that one of the unions has disputed the composition of the negotiating committee and thus we are entering the counting system. At this point in the country, we count civil servants and deputies who are members of individual unions. And it's gonna take at least a month, with all our desire to make that count more. And now count on what it's going to look like in some big systems where you have 50 and 100 thousand members of the union themselves where that count takes practically months. So this law will also bring that part to a reasonable level, because whoever becomes representative keeps that representation for the next 3 years. Six versions of the law say in itself that it was very difficult to comply with the law. On the other hand, we were aware that we wouldn't be able to bring it all the way. And that's what you can see from the media and from everything that follows this law. We said we'd match it somewhere in about 80% of the articles, and somewhere in that part. Please indicate that those most important articles concerning the organisation of centres, in that part concerning the very composition of the negotiating committee and that famous end, therefore, are to be put off the force of extended application of collective agreements. So, shortening that period to a reasonable period is some things that couldn't be arranged and we said that in those cases where you couldn't, on the other hand I can't agree that the government would take responsibility for itself and offer a legal solution, and we just did. So such a proposal lies before you. In our initial discussions, we heard that this law is unconstitutional, since it allegedly limits the right to association guaranteed by Convention 87. International Labour Organizations. However, we note that the Committee of Experts of the International Organisation for the Labour of Regulations, which give special rights to associations and trade unions, does not view the opposite principles of freedom of association. If the establishment of the most representative organisation based on pre-defined precise and objective criteria, the distinction between the most representative organisations and other organisations is limited to certain privileged rights, e.g. For the purpose of collective bargaining, consultation with public authorities or setting up representatives of workers and employers at international meetings. Unions which are not considered representative and are therefore not represented in tripartite bodies are not entitled to conclude collective agreements shall not be denied the right to defend the working interests of their members, to organise their own administration and to form their activities programmes. ... establish an independent body with every guarantee of independence and objectivity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Lastly, the unions have been given the right to judicial protection against a decision that does not recognise the status of a representative union. All of this is contained in this bill. We have also heard that this law complicates collective negotiations, which is also not true because it is the basic starting point of this proposal that the representativeness for collective bargaining is not determined until it is challenged. So if you have in the company one union he is automatically representative and the employer has to negotiate with him. If you have two unions that have agreed to be negotiating committees and no one is questioning it, they are automatically representative. Also, what we know and see is that the problem of forming a collective, negotiating board for collective bargaining and that a little, a little, is counting membership. With this law we also resolved some things, so we said when we determine representativeness then we trust unions. We believe what comes from the union. So when we determine the number of membership we believe in two papers. One paper is signed by an employer and a union commissioner who says in that and that company so many members of the union act. We also trust a document that will issue both centrals or trade unions that will cost so many members of the union to pay directly membership fees on the union register. So they don't pay over the salary. So we believe the data that the unions are going to provide, so there's no more sending in JMBG, names or anything else. We want it to be very simple, and we're going with one big trust. There have also been very major disputes over how many members of the union should be joined in the union itself to be representative. That's where we stood at the point of view that there should be a deal between the unions. And the percentage was moving between 10% and 20%. Two union centres think 20% is objective, the other three think 10% is something that's objective. If we look into the founding law, it means a law that regulates the establishment of a union, then it's said that 10 people, meaning workers, can form a union, which means that in a company with 100 employees, 10 union workers could already be a union that can collectively negotiate. So we're here at the border between that border when 10 people get together and join the union and representivity itself. We thought it was more objective to make it 20%. For this reason, the bill also states that the representative union is the one that has 20% of the union's union members from the total number of unions. We don't think it'll break the unions. We think he's going to come to a gathering, to the ossification of the unions. Because what's the basic problem in Croatia is that we have a lot of union members in the public sector, and very little in the real sector. So, in that manufacturing sector. And here we are, we haven't reached consensus and we can't even reach it. We tried several times to reach a consensus and we said remember, it's a law that regulates your part of collective bargaining, sit down, agree whether it's 10, 15, 20, 5, 1%, but it should simply be sat down and arranged. Unfortunately, however, there is no agreement. We also recognized the reality of Croatia. Unfortunately, the reality of Croatia or fortunately depends on which side you see Croatia has professional trade unions and that it participates in collective negotiations. For example, the last collective bargaining in health activities where some trade unions have played such a role on the one hand, some think positive, some think negative. Therefore, the trade unions are our reality and we wanted these trade unions to be valorised, and these trade unions have their own weight in collective bargaining, so we said in law that they are representative trade unions that meet at least three cumulative conditions. The first is that of the total number of members have at least 75% of the members who must be the same profession or profession. Secondly, that workers of such professions and occupations must be directly related to the area for which they are being negotiated and that at least 40% of workers must have the same profession and occupation of the total number of employees of the same profession and occupation of the employer in their membership. Simply professional trade unions are reality and we cannot close our eyes that they do not exist, but in any case their system, meaning their participation in collective bargaining should be valorised in a certain way, but also in a certain way limited. When we talk about whether this law makes it impossible to strike or not, this law absolutely enables strike. It is a legitimate right, however, which makes it impossible for those trade unions that are not representative to launch a strike for those things that are defined by collective negotiations and collective bargaining which is logical. But they still have, although they are not representative, still have the possibility of organising strikes for all those things they think should in some way warn the employer that it is wrong to negotiate any other issues that are not related to collective agreements, allow them to organise their own administration. Therefore, there is no observation that this law prevents the right to strike. On the other hand, when we talk about the International Labour Organization, the Committee of Experts on Freedom of Association of the International Labour Organisation has published a very clear principle on which legal interventions in the extended application of the collective contract are acceptable only in urgent cases and for short periods. Since the existing provision allows the unlimited application of the legal rules laid down in the existing collective agreements, we also consider that it is contrary to international conventions, but as Article 7. The labour law defines that workers are always subject to a more favourable right to this provision is not considered to be a breach of the Convention. For these reasons, it is not proposed to limit the extended application of the legal rules, it is not contrary to that principle. So what we are proposing by this law, so this law regulates collective bargaining, and this law we believe that we can also regulate the part arising from collective bargaining, which is extended application of the legal rules of the closed collective agreements. And we also believe that this is not contrary to Convention No. 98 on the application of the principle of the right to organisation and collective bargaining, which is a legally stronger source of power compared to national legislation. We don't end that institute either. That institute remains, but we're limiting it to three months. And what we also allow for parties that are in the collective bargaining process to agree on extended application as well as so far, with an estimated three-month deadline suitable for the implementation of the negotiation process and the conclusion of a new collective agreement. Is that 3, 6, 9 months is a matter of arbitration and a matter of whether you think collective negotiations should end as soon as possible, start as soon as possible before waiting for the last moment and then go into collective bargaining with the goal of then entering the Zeitnot and then extorting some things. When we talk about centralities, we have also defined the centralities by this law. So one of the criteria is that the centre must count at least 50,000 members. There was no consensus either, and the same difference is only always different who thinks it's good who isn't. Some who think I don't know 20% is good, here in this section they think it's not good to be 50 grand but it should be a smaller number. Some centralities think you should have a larger number. Also when we talk about the very professional unions of one central center, they think it's okay for them to be inside, others not. I'm just taking a picture of the problems we've been dealing with in the making of this law. And what we have said we will assume responsibility for the adoption of this law, so we are going in two readings to hear comments on it, to include these remarks, and with the aim of making this law in Croatia part of labour law. On the other hand, this law is just as important as the Labour Act, although the Labour Act we hear more, we listen more. However, the Union's representative law is equally important. Just to point out that this is an organic law, so it should be passed with most of the 77 MPs. On the other hand, it is part of a trinity that is related to the labour market itself with only labour law. Another law that will very soon reach the benches here in the Parliament is the Law on protection of work, so that is the third law to regulate labour law in Croatia. I believe there will be a lot of debate, that there will be a lot of suggestions. We are open to all constructive proposals, proposals that will allow everyone to simply find themselves in this law, and what this law will also allow us in the near future to finally go and that final process of consolidation of the union scene in Croatia is to go into the process of dividing union property because it is one of the preconditions that we know who and who with whom and how to negotiate and to agree on who is a representative union, who is not a representative union, and we think that we have agreed very clear criteria. And I hope the unions find themselves in it. As you can see, there's already a certain merger at the central level, and it's likely that there's going to be a merger in both the border unions and the company unions that's going to talk about how the unions are going to grow stronger and that they're going to be much stronger than they are so far. As far as employers are concerned, we didn't talk much about them because it was a simpler way of agreeing but we didn't reach an agreement with them until the end because we also thought that in the part of the organisation at national level, so the Association of Employers who would represent employers should leave the possibility of finding others there. So we set the criteria in a way that they're not maximumistic, and they're neither minimalistic, but they make one good competition possible. Whether one employers' association will remain, whether two others or three will come forward but we thought they must be in the same relationship as trade unions. As far as the law itself is concerned, it will, after the second reading, produce certain legal effects, which means that if we adopt it, those collective agreements that have expired, which are in the extended application, will continue to apply for another three months, and then the criteria of the extension should be agreed. On the other hand, we have given the unions a period of time to carry out the process of assessing representativeness and we think that this law will encourage things to be resolved before, rather than waiting for the final moment in collective bargaining. And what we will certainly force, and we will force collective bargaining not only in public services but also in the real sector, because collective bargaining is something that is the fluid of Europe, which we have accepted. We're on our way to thinking that it needs to be improved one more step above it and that we need to expand it as much as possible to the part where it's not there, and that's the part in the real sector, so in the part where we have very few organised union members. For everything else that needs to be answered or commented, we're free to take some things into consideration, change. But we think this law is very important, that it won't stop the union scene, that it won't cause a disturbance on the union scene. It is an example of just mentioning the Employment Encouragement Act where we mentioned that we would lower the labour price, that we would deliver young people to employers. As you can see, none of this is happening, so even with this law that we have passed, we think that we will only strengthen the scene, and we will see the results very soon in a year because in that period, unions need to be organised, they need to get their representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10432	I thank the minister. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, MP Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10433	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers and deputies, colleagues and colleagues. Each state seeks best to regulate labour and capital relations through laws, collective agreements, collective bargaining, or through an assessment of union representativeness as one of the participants in collective bargaining. Croatia has dealt with this through the Labour Act, through some other laws, and now we are trying in a more comprehensive way to regulate and participate in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining of trade unions and employers as participants in collective bargaining. In the European Union, the institutional support of the trade union and the recognition of the role of industrial relations in regulation of economic policy have also been applied to the constant of national systems, although there are significant differences between individual members of the European Union. In recent years, the union's difficulties in maintaining the representativeness and ability to regulate working relations have prompted heated debates in these countries as well. The decline in trade union membership and membership rates, i.e. union workers, decreases coverage by collective bargaining, and this is recognised as clear signs of a decline in the role of trade unions in today's society and economy. A crisis that lasts for years only potentiates these relationships. Union membership is crucial for the participation of workers in trade union activities, the provision of funds for union work, the official recognition of the union as a representative organisation. The rules and criteria of representativeness are a crucial element in determining the organisational policy of the union. The thresholds of a minimum membership for official recognition of representativeness are a strong incentive for membership, empowerment, in order to meet such requirements. If disregarded or minimalised, the number of membership criteria may result in a significant decline in motivation for organising workers. This is the case where trade unions are integrated into tripartite or bipartite bodies based on a political decision or where the process of extending collective bargaining does not take into account representativeness in terms of membership. In Croatia, the area of representativeness has so far been regulated by the Law on how to determine the representation of associations, multi-level unions in tripartite bodies and at national level since 1999, and the rights of workers and employers to free organisation and association and the right to collectively negotiate the Labour Act. Croatia has thus ratified the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 87 on the Freedom of Association and the Protection of Rights of Organization and number 98 on the right to organise and collective bargaining. In Croatia, just over 30% of the workers were organised in trade unions, and the minister presented the number of trade unions, so over 500 with an obvious difference between the state and public and private sectors, and there is particularly little trade union membership among small employers. The need for a new law that will regulate the union's area of representativeness for collective bargaining, conditionality and Croatia's EU accession negotiation process is extremely low in Croatia, especially at the border level. Our trade unions are not sufficiently profiled and empowered to effectively engage in European social dialogue and participation in European sectoral social councils. In EU countries, border unions are extremely strong and their representativeness is not questionable, and often it is not regulated by law, while in Croatia only last year the process of establishing tripartite sectoral councils began. For us and for collective bargaining, there is a mutual dispute between trade unions, and the proposed law tries to encourage unions to join on the basis of the interests of certain activities and areas. The draft law respects the principles of the Committee of Experts of the International Labour Organisation and the European Social Charter relating to pre-established precise and objective criteria for determining representativeness, the right of trade unions which are not considered representative and do not participate in collective bargaining and tripartite bodies to defend the working interests of their members, to organise their own administrations and to formulate their activities programmes. Representativeship shall be determined by an independent body with a guarantee of independence and objectivity, and the possibility of judicial protection against decisions challenging their recognition of representativeness has also been incorporated. How does the law prescribe the determination of representativeness? In principle, every union is representative unless it's disputed. These are also all trade unions which enter into a written agreement on joint negotiations in a particular area, and where representativeness is challenged, it shall establish a specific body on the following criteria. It is representative of the union that has at least 20% of the members, members of the total number of trade unions, i.e. for the inclusion of professional trade unions in the negotiating committee, it is necessary that 75% of the members are members of the same profession and occupations, that they are directly linked to the area for which they are being negotiated, and that 40% of the workers have the same profession and interest from the total number of persons for whom the negotiation takes place, namely the same profession and interest. The most opposition in the trade unions has caused exactly a percentage of membership to determine representativeness, explaining that this excludes a larger number of trade unions in the negotiations, i.e. that the proposing has self-initiatedly raised the threshold from 10% to 20% of membership as a criterion for obtaining representativeness. The opinion is that this will have a negative impact on collective bargaining and we believe that in the debate until another reading it is necessary to try once again to bring these criteria into line. We will take, for example, the Republic of Slovenia, which in its 1993 Union Representative Act has taken 15% of its membership as a criterion. The second relevant remark concerns the termination of Article 262(2). Labour law, i.e. unlimited extended application of collective agreements. Taking into account the decisions of the Committee of Experts on Freedom of Association of the International Labour Organisation, published in the Assembly, it shall decide that the legal interventions in extended validity, i.e. the application of collective agreements, are only acceptable in urgent cases and for a short period of time in which Article 262. The labour law in Croatia is contrary because this is a direct, unilateral legal intervention which, in all cases and without a limitation of duration, prescribes extended application of the collective contract. This law also sets a shorter deadline, so a period of 3 months for discussion and whether it is necessary for a longer term, and in fact that means increasing the social partners' responsibility to start negotiating a new collective contract in time. Because it is not logical that the collective contract can be cancelled at the time of application, and that it can be extended over time without a limitation of duration. A new way of collectively negotiating demands from social partners is a significant level of responsibility and objectivity, respecting the economic and social situation. We expect further public debate and contacts on disputed provisions in the time until the second reading and respecting the current economic and social situation in Croatia that we will come to a more significant degree of compliance. Members and members of the SDP club will accept the bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10434	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourers representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. They say the truth has two faces. I don't know if it's a two-faced thing then, it could be, so I wonder which face was the first part of the truth in 2010, which is the truth or what part of the person was true today, or is true today when it's the most important issue of this law, which is the abolition of three provisions of the Labour Act, not one. Of course, the most important is that of the extended application of the legal rules of collective agreements. The minister said we'll take responsibility. So why don't you settle it by regulation, why are you asking the Parliament for the law? This taking over of your responsibility is the most fear we've ever had. All governments have claimed that they take responsibility for both good and bad moves, it's only a question, the thing is that there is no one who would take responsibility for a bad move sanctioning it. It's been four years, that's what this is all about. In 1991, a similar bill appeared in Croatia not by content but by possible consequences. We then called him Shale's law because the author of the law was then if I am not mistaken, Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Peter Shale. It was then wisdom, and that law was not passed at that time because it would leave approximately the union movement similar to that of this law. Today is not Shaleov, now we can call him Mrssicev. It's not what I think, nor what the minister thinks, someone knows more, I don't understand medicine at all, but I understand that these provisions of the law lead to a crumbling union scene. To give legitimacy and to drag into negotiations and at the national level of professional unions. Says the minister already has them and that's good, I guess that's just as good. That's the fact that we're leaving. But we want a baker's union, a milkman, you have a math professor, a gym teacher, whatever you want. We're going to have an even bigger number of factory yellow unions that employers are establishing to prevent the creation of real unions. And why is the union organisation in Croatia particularly in the economy and in the private sector so low? Go to foreign companies and ask what's the first rule of admission to work? It's not on paper, but it says so. There's no union membership. It's a condition for getting a job. That's not what anyone cares about, but we find that weak organization is very good. So grinding, creating an even larger number of yellow unions. Whether they're after representative or not quite anyway. And secondly, the negotiating committee on the collective agreement will be so drawn up that there will never be a deal on anything. And that's the second covert purpose of this law. However, the question of representativeness as a legal norm on this law is left to the trade unions to try to agree between the first and second readings with the applicant. And we'll respect that deal no matter what it's gonna be. With one note or one question, what do you think union organisation would be and how many unions would be if collective agreements or collective agreements rights were only valid for union members not for all employees? There are countries where working chambers are mandatory, like us, like the craft chamber. So all these jobs protect rights, promote rights, judgeship and protection of labour rights for the Labour Chamber, not the Union, and workers pay mandatory membership by law. In Croatia, it never wanted to discuss this seriously but two arguments are used: firstly, we have a terrible lot of unions and we do everything to make them more and the second one will make any form of bargaining for collective negotiations difficult. And that's easy when there's a lot of unions. The Croatian Labour Act rests on the concept of the existence of collective agreements and the coverage of the number of employees through collective agreements that should exceed 80%. And that's why there's not a lot of material rights of individual, not collective, individual workers' rights in it, because back in 1995, here in the House, the adoption of the law decided on the concept of the so-called concept. "German labour law", a German model that comes from national legislation regulating the foundations, and that everything else is determined by collective agreements. Of course, with the existence of working courts, this law, if adopted, will require the writing of a new Labour Act, inevitably. And a complete change in the concept of labour legislation. I'm saying it might be two or three years before someone understands and understands, but my job is to warn them. The International Organisation Convention No. 98 is a convention that says the role of the authorities is to encourage collective bargaining, to stimulate 1,2,3,4,5.10 pages, that the largest number of workers is covered by collective agreements. But there's something else very interesting, April 10th, 2007. I am offering to the Croatian Parliament to ratify another Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which is the number 154 which is called the Convention on the Promotion of Corporate Negotiation, which Croatia has not taken over in the process of succession from the former state. And this number in 98 is, and this 154 is not, whether to translate the Parliament's service from English to Croatian. And then the government on 16 May 2007, and the government's opinion was signed by then Vice-President Mrs Kosor, rejected the proposal to ratify the convention on promoting collective bargaining. Because everything that happens later, but also today, is clear from Article 5 of that convention, which says, "To promote collective bargaining, measures are being taken according to domestic conditions.". The measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall consist of the following: collective bargaining should enable all employers and all groups of workers in the field of activity covered by this Convention. The collective negotiation should be applied gradually to all issues covered by Article A, B and C, and point A, B and C are working conditions, working relationship, relationship between employers and workers, and arrangement of the relationship between employers and their associations, and one or more working associations. It is necessary to encourage the establishment of rules of conduct in accordance with the rules of procedure between employers and workers' associations, in accordance with the rules of procedure. IC, E bodies and procedures for resolving labour disputes should be designed in a way that contributes to promoting collective bargaining. The Convention in Croatia has not been ratified, is not part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, because in 2007 the HDZ did not want it, and if it proposed to ratify the Convention again, it would not be accepted again. And the secret is that, and we are a member of the International Labour Organisation, we had if I'm not mistaken, and he may not be a member of the Committee of Experts of a distinguished lawyer who worked from Croatia on the Committee of Experts. The essence of this law, if I skip the part in representativeness, is to amend Article 253. Article 253 is an article which speaks of what is the customs capacity of the trade union, the tariff capacity and it is recorded in the law as follows: "Corruption contract parties may be on the part of the employer, one or more employers or their associations, and on the part of the workers one or more trade unions, and their associations that are willing and able to pressure and promote the interests of their members, when negotiating collective agreements in the area for which they are brought." Which is the purpose of the union's existence, rather than tariff autonomy, tariff capacity, and the purpose of the collective contract. Pig's halves, excursions, manifestations, so basically, the existence of a union is a tariff ability and tariff autonomy. We change that, we delete that provision and replace it with some flosculo, a papasian that means nothing. It bothers someone today, the union's tariff capacity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Labour law, extended application of legal rules. Now I ask, rewarding question, how many cases do we have in Croatia at this time, to apply the legal rules of a collective contract that has ceased to apply? You know how much? One is not in the public sector, one. How many contracts do we have at a certain national level for a certain time? Ten, but to an indefinite five. And no one's a public sector, everything's a real sector, those five. Only cancer and collective agreements are eternal, that's the minister's statement. The first vice president of the government had the same thing about it. I'm asking if you know that, if the collective contract is cancelled, it's not worth the extension of the rule of law clause, and all these contracts have an agreed three-month notice. So, the right of one or the other is to cancel the collective agreement, the notice period is 3 months, and then it is worth nothing, neither the collective contract nor the legal rules are applied indefinitely and nothing is eternal. Are you trying to tell me that because of the one who stopped working, and the legal rules apply, and that's for security companies, that collective contract. That's why we're changing, we're making this provision, and we're erasing it from the Labour Act. Because of that one collective contract? I just don't believe it. So much for knowing the subject of extended application of the legal rules by all those who have spoken about it in recent months and the public have assured that collective agreements in Croatia are eternal. Is there any other rule of law after the end of collective agreements? Yes, in Austria yes, in Italy yes, in Spain yes. In an indirect manner in Germany through work contracts, in an indirect way through work contracts. We're in it for an exception. But what they don't have, and we have, which was a compromise and the agreement is to make it shorter – the rules on work as a unilateral act of an employer who can and most often replace a collective contract. And that's where the problem begins. And most of the collective agreements are gone and we're going to move on to the system of work regulations that someone wanted to admit, understood by someone who wrote such laws or not, anyway. And that fuse was incorporated into the Labour Act not by accident, not by mistake, but on purpose. He was supposed to be a real fuse so that collective agreements would never happen, that he would constantly encourage negotiations. That is why cancellation deadlines were scheduled, the possibility of cancelling a collective agreement, but the aim was to immediately approach the negotiations for a new collective agreement with a reduced or larger period, with or without some rights. But it can't be lost without collective agreements. That's why that fuse was then '95. was incorporated into the Labour Act and worked effectively for several years If 2010 for Zoran Milanovic, the president of the SDP, this was the theme of the referendum, I believe that there are not two Zoran Milanovics who are the presidents of the SDP and I want to believe that, based on our proposal, the conclusion is the only thing that we can do to make a decision in this House, although 716, 17 000 signatures were then collected for the referendum by means of an opinion and decision of the Constitutional Court. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]] for the Parliament, it does not need citizens' signatures to call a referendum on such a significant topic [[Intruding Batinić: colleague Lesar, minute.]] It will be a unique opportunity for the Parliament to issue a referendum with its will in one draft law. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10436	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, MP Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10437	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. It is before us, therefore, the law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and the representativeness of collective bargaining which, in its essence, represents a series of serious changes in the labour market, which are basically defined by the Labour Act. The labour law is a fundamental act which defines and regulates labour market relations between the employer and the employer. This is an act that is of equal importance for workers, but also for employers and for this reason it is totally unacceptable for some new laws to regulate areas from the labour market, and not by fundamental law, which is the Labour Act. The complexity and sensitivity of labour market relations, as well as the character of the labour market, whether it is rigid or flexible, whether it chokes or promotes economic freedoms, whether it encourages or restricts employment can significantly affect the success or failure of national economies. It is therefore more than ever necessary for such activities to be carried out in agreement and dialogue between all stakeholders on both a bipartite and a tripartite basis. The way this Law is processed represents a school example of violence against social dialogue, which is almost completely suspended for the government's mandate. At the same time, the Prime Minister justifies his signature on a union request for a referendum by some violent approach to the last government when proposing to amend the Labour Act in Article 362. This bill was not adopted either by the Croatian Employers' Association or by union centres. So where will you find greater aggression than this when without social dialogue, without dialogue and consent from employers and trade unions, the Government has roughly imposed unacceptable solutions on them. All union centres expressed their negative views through isolated opinions, and they differ significantly. This just confirms that the government is essentially further weak and dissipating the union scene. However, the fundamental observation is that this law puts confusion into the autonomous tasks of trade union associations and their associations at lower levels. Irregular treatment of trade unions and employers' association, unspecified and inconclusive and in parts and absolutely unacceptable procedures for determining representativeness, non-compliance of criteria with publicly-proclaimed objectives of the law. The amendments to the Labour Act and not only Article 262 but also a series of other cited or unlisted articles, which my predecessor has kindly and stated will result in certain and further fragmentation of the union scene, the weakness of trade unions and collective bargaining, and their legal uncertainty. And what are the goals of improving the labour market that this law achieves? Therefore, it can be characterized by the government's intention that the law that is vital to employers and employers, which rejects it as an unacceptable insistent push in the Croatian Parliament, rather than as a clear demonstration of the kind of violence against social dialogue and in fact its advocacy. And also on one side of the combination in the union's representative criteria, the hour strengthens them, hours weaken them, hours fragment them, and then the reduction of the criteria for the representativeness of employers' associations actually quite clearly confirms the fact of that old "controversy and rule". However, this approach to the adoption of this law is not surprising because none of the laws adopted so far for the term of office of this government has received the support of the social partners. The result is obvious. The decline in economic activity of all macroeconomic indicators, the re-diving of recession, the growth of unemployment and the deterioration of the entrepreneurial investment climate. Here's what the governor said. Everything that can't fall. That's probably why his head fell too. It's only growing cheerfully in the state budget, but unfortunately for the latest data, it's slowly but certainly coming down. I would like to point out here that even the content in some of the elements of this law is not controversial. Croatia needs a kind of regulation on the issue of union representativeness and trade union centres at all levels. But the question of representativeness must be resolved within the union scene and no matter how many versions of the law and should be there until one of them comes out of their kitchen but real. And not so rudely imposing a solution by the government which is in direct contrast with the values taken and in the process of negotiating with the EU and the International Labour Organisation conventions. This law deals with several important issues, therefore, and the criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and employers' scenes and trade union scenes at national level and their rights, then the representativeness of collective bargaining, the criteria for the participation of trade unions, the negotiating committees of collective bargaining unions, the duration of union representation, the powers for collective bargaining. The procedure for determining the representativeness, competence, designation, working conditions of the commission, the determination of representativeness at all levels of national, professional, border, etc. shall also be laid down. Therefore, a law that deals with fundamental interests or more specifically with the business sense and the purpose of the existence of a union organisation. To pass a law like this and not to have the union's consent is a rare attempt to intervene in the freedom of union organization. On the Economic and Social Council of 5.6.2012, the only one held on this topic, HUP and trade union centres, adopted a common opinion, here I quote: "The trade union centres of the Croatian Employers' Association are unique in the view that the proposal of the Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and the representativeness for collective bargaining is returned to the working group in the process. The Croatian Employers' Association will not declare the legal provisions concerning the other social partner and will resort to the majority's opinion in that part." So let Prime Minister Milanovic speak of who was doing the violence at law-making. The same GSV and the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia and the Croatian Unions also had separate opinions on the same GSV and the Croatian Union of Independent Unions and the Association of Workers' Unions of Croatia and the Croatian Union Association of Unions. In addition to the joint opinion of the HUP and the union union of the union centre, therefore, they also pointed out their mutual and different separate opinions. So, in fact, the fundamental question is what does the government really want, and what does the government really do? It is certainly an attempt to intervene in the freedom of trade union organisation and relativisation of social partners. But here's the bare thing to the end. In fact, the right answer is found in Article 27. Article 262 is replaced by the following: The labour law and this article limit the extended application of broken and expired collective agreements. It is clear that this institute of extended application must be amended and amended in 2010. Therefore, Article 27, which is found in the transitional and final provisions of this Act, is repealed in Article 262. The labour law. It is indisputable that, with the question of the eternal duration of collective agreements which have ceased to apply, it must be resolved, but that is definitely Article 262. The labour law. It is quite clear now how hypocritical it was by the SDP here is today's prime minister, including Mr Linic and Cacic, and most of you on the left who were sitting in the Assembly, who competed in the condemnation of the then Government on the amendment of the ZOR, in the very part of how you are trying to change it now. But look at the other law. It is not necessary to mention, of course, your role in co-organising the signing of a union request for a referendum. At that time, you deceived the Croatian public into destroying workers' rights, abolishing collective agreements and not saying everything yet or being found in the archives of Croatian media, and all because it seemed to you that this was a good place and a time to collect petty political points. So here are a few, Mr Milanovic 13.6. "I call on all citizens to come out and sign their referendum because this concerns each of them, every family, and that is why it is important that we respond." Of course, without any ambition, Mr Milanovic then explains why he said it and why it is so important. Perhaps today you should explain why it is important to bring about the same changes that he said should be prevented from being brought. Afterwards, he said that if these amendments to the Labour Act were brought forward, it could take some time but not long, of course until they came to power. Well, we haven't passed the law, but they don't pass the law either, but they change that article with another law. Here's about credibility and courage, actually, about the true character of this government. Slavko Linic says the SDP will never accept the proposed changes to the Labour Act and will fight them at the press in Rijeka, 31.5. Of course, Zeljko Jovanovic did not save, he said, "These changes are an unprecedented blow to the workforce" that as he said all acquired labour rights were abolished. I believe that people were not guilty, and in fact they had no idea what it was about, but if they knew today and that's what Minister Mrsic said on the radio in the morning that they didn't support the essence of the question at the referendum, and they seemed to be pleading and the people pleading against the government at that time, so it would be convenient to jump into that movement and bring down the government. Here, if I may have interpreted it more freely, I apologize but it is possible to listen to who is not today's show, as Minister Mrsic said about why they signed the request for a referendum then.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10438	I'd like to ask you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10439	Because you don't have the knowledge, the strength or the courage to sit at the table with the social partners and how they suggest this topic is solved where it is, and that's the Labour Act. Not that quietly try to push into some transitional and final provision of the new law. Of course, we have nothing against amending Article 262. The labour law, but do it where it's to be done. That's what the trade unions and employers told you after all. They suggest it is necessary to open a debate on the ZOR because this is also a key issue of labour market reform and a key issue of competitiveness in the Croatian economy. But here's how you haven't opened and passed any reform laws so far, you've opened up no reform so you don't have the strength to open up labour market reform, but you're trying to change this trick by changing the new law in fact by changing Article 262. The labour law and that is the essence and reason for this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10440	Thank you, too. The minister answered the question, but before I could just read the notice of changing the maintenance schedule of the 9th session of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. So the 9th session of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership called for 28 June 2012 at 9pm will be held according to the proposed agenda on Friday 29 June 2012 at 9pm in Janka Drašković's hall number 202. Minister Mrs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10441	It's just the truth, so things can be written down. As far as I know, Mr Popiac's parliamentary representative was the minister who was responsible for this part and the minister who formed a working group consisting of legal experts from the Faculty of Law in Croatia, but also a legal expert from the International Labour Organisation from Brazil. So if it was such a desire to pass this law then it was a chance to pass so then there wouldn't be these statements right now, depriving the scene, going into politics, so this debate serves to be a little bit politicized about it, but we haven't seen a single concrete proposal. You've been at the head of this task force, you've probably held a few meetings, so you probably have some knowledge that maybe we can work things out better. It was a task force. I saw that draft bill. They paid those experts, we paid that stranger, probably not small money. No one has ever received a fee for making this bill. So now the question is why did we pay foreign experts without passing the law? And when you interpret the Economic and Social Council, then the truths must be told why some centralities have given a separate opinion. So they gave a separate opinion on the reason why the two cores are believed to be 20% of the joint members of the union enough to be representative and that they support it, and the other three centres that have also been shown to think that this is wrong, that it should be 10%. If, in this time between the two readings, unions agree on a percentage, whether 1%, 2%, 5, 10, 15, 20, 50%, there's no problem, we'll put it into the law. The truth works, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10442	Thank you. We have a correction to your statement by the minister. Comrade Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10443	I'm correcting the allegations of a minister who said that such a law could then be passed, amendments to the Labour Act. No, sir... No, no, Mr. Minister. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The decision of the Constitutional Court of 20 October 2010 stated in point 2 that from that date, no law could be proposed within a year which would answer the referendum question which was offered with a yes. The Constitutional Court has now made it possible for you to do this by such a position on point 2, to skip the adjectives, because if there had been a referendum then that decision would have been taken in accordance with Article 3(4) and Article 8(4). The referendum law was only amended for a new referendum, not just for a year. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10444	Thank you very much. Next to the debate in front of Klub representative of HDSSB, MP Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10445	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. It might be a good idea to start this bill with a law on complications, on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining. Namely, this complicated law complicates, above all, legal security, and the legal security that should be the safest in the country in which we live, which are workers. Trade unions represent workers, people in Croatia who work and who need to be safe for their jobs, for their workers' rights as workers in their jobs. The SDP government, the Kukuriku coalition, promised in the 2011 pre-election campaign that workers in this country would be better off. You've given support to the unions, the employers, the people that your government's coming to power will make this country better. In Croatia today live harder, worse, more uncertain than ever. And you have just shown this bill that everything you did in the election campaign and promised the Croatian people that it was hypocritical because you did not suggest or do what the people expected of you, because they voted against the former government, but I am not sure that after what you showed in more than 100 days of your authority that they voted for you. They voted maybe for a different life, maybe they expected better, and that's based on your promises, but we're sure they've gotten a lot worse for now than they expected from you. Fellow Members and colleagues, the right to free organisation and association in trade unions and associations of employers, the freedom to establish and associate a multi-level association and the right to association with international organisations, and soon by entering the Republic of Croatia into the EU and the European Workers' and Employers' Organisation with the aim of protecting workers and employers and promoting their social and economic interests are unequivocal human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the largest legal act in the country, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And it's completely absurd for this law to get in the way of the current Labour Act. You are Mr. Minister and Government, in which you are sitting exactly this bill of law, you have fallen into the Labour Act both in Article 262 and in Article 254, so you have not only entered the nomotechnically into this law but are directly in the rights of workers, people who need to feel in this country where they live and work safely. The criteria and procedure for determining the representativeness of multi-level union associations in tripartite bodies are currently regulated by the Law on how to determine the representation of multi-level union associations in tripartite bodies and national level, which is the law of 1999. This law should justifiably suffer criticism over ineffectiveness, slowness and costs caused by the law. This law should undoubtedly be amended, but it is not good to do so with the text of the draft law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining in this way. And why is that? The first question, the issue that is being raised, is the principle of economics, the conduct of the new government with a proposal for a law on representativeness, i.e. a number of versions of the bill that the government has drawn up at the end of its term of office. Moreover, one of the proposals was drawn up by a three-member group of independent experts who made up Prof. Dr. Željko Potočnik on a proposal from employers, Prof. Dr. Marija Vinkovic on the union proposal and dr.sc. Jusuf Gelab of the International Labour Organisation, which was then proposed as an external expert by the RS government's resolute ministry. The group developed a quality proposal for the Law on Representativeship which resulted from a number of talks held by the working group with interested representatives of trade unions and employers, which respected the criticisms and proposals presented by the social partners with only one objective, with the aim of drawing up the quality, professional and impartial text of the proposal of the Law on Representativeship. This law and these suggestions of these experts no longer exist today. The proposal for a law that lies before us already shows on the first hand that it represents a step backwards in view of all the proposals that we have been able to hear and discuss here in the Croatian Parliament, so one basic and justifiable question is whether the text of the bill aims to ensure the real application and really appropriate representativeness and representation of the social partners for collective bargaining or whether this proposal will contribute to further fermentation and further weakening of the union scene in the Republic of Croatia. The HDSSB club believes that this bill is currently going to that side, to weaken the union scene and to weaken those who need to protect workers' rights. Furthermore, the question arises whether the specific setting of the conditions for representativeness should go hand in hand to certain union associations, those unions currently in Croatia who are at the hands of the government of the Republic of Croatia led by Zoran Milanovic? It is not disputed that the existing regulation is flawed due to the lack of criteria of union representativeness for collective bargaining on... and regional level, which makes it very difficult and sometimes impossible to reach agreement on the number and composition of the negotiating committee, but the conditions proposed are at least unusual under this proposal. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first thing to be seen and to be problematic is the asymmetric approach to establishing the criteria for the representativeness of multi-level employers' associations and multi-level union associations for participation in tripartite bodies at national level, i.e. to establish different criteria for representativeness on the part of employers and different criteria on the part of the union. The unions have just warned themselves of the need for a symmetric approach. It is problematic to condition the existence of regional union offices of at least 4 counties because what will happen to union associations that have an extremely large number of members, but do not have district offices in 4 counties? Nothing. Furthermore, with the proposed condition of 50,000 members of the union as a condition and representativeness of the multi-level trade unions, there is an attempt to maintain the status quo or other words of this proposal to achieve absolutely nothing. Furthermore, establishing the criteria for representativeness at local and regional (regional) level for a basic function is primarily about empowerment of unions, and in fact it is about their further dissuasion in breaking up, so it is mainly about all threats made to trade unions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a state that is defined as a social state, the objective of clearly detached the meaning of collective bargaining and trade union action in the Republic of Croatia and destroying any trade union influence because it is obvious that some trade unions in this country do not go to the side of the policy that the government wants to go. The draft law does not make clear the conditions for defining... trade unions and sectoral social dialogue even though they exist in EU Member States that we in the Republic of Croatia should have served as role models. Moreover, sectoral social dialogue should stabilise the union scene and strengthen the union movement. Zgrebec spoke on behalf of the SDP club about Slovenia. Take a look at the example of Germany, he mentioned a colleague named Lesar. Consider the example of Italy, an example of France. In Italy, 95% of workers are secured by collective agreements. There are different ways and options... than these are proposed. Our country of the Republic of Croatia should be an example of an EU Member State, a country in which, based on our EU approach, we should be modelled that our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia live better and safer. That is why we have been working hard and for almost 8 years we have negotiated to become a full member of the EU. We need to, and your government should have taken two steps forward, not a step backwards. The proposal for a law also did not provide for a reasonable transitional period, but did not forget... nomotechnically and questionably reached for the determination of the provisions of the Labour Act, its pruning in order to lose the meaning of the central legislation in the field of work, Article 254, Article 262. If the Government wanted to amend this fundamental law, the Labour Act, then it had to propose amendments to the Labour Act rather than to intervene in the existing law. And let us remember that the Labour Act was in the light of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU, that this law has a European spirit. For the HDSSB club, this bill is unskilled, opposed to its purpose, it is nomotechnically very questionable because it obviously wants to deepen the further weakness of the union scene and, in the future, remove all the government's inexperiences in the union ranks. Unfortunately for the damage of Croatian workers and workers. Remind yourself of your colleagues and colleagues today by ruling here in the Croatian Parliament that you visited the First Maya celebrations, that you promised workers a better life, that in passing by music and song you promised a better life for Croatia. Today we do not see it here and in the Croatian Parliament and the people of the Republic of Croatia. Every day something collects, lives getting harder and harder. Gas, electricity, fuel, taxes, more and more unemployed people. If what you were saying, Mr. Minister, was not well in the last government, much more was expected of you. The only thing good about this bill is that you brought it up in your first reading. We hope that the second reading will completely change this proposal and that this will be a law that will have a European spirit and that laws will be passed in the Croatian Parliament which will be laws that will follow the trend of Croatia's European life, not steps back. If any unions or working associations do not go under the hands of your government and you must take it as the voice of the people, that same people who voted for your coalition in the elections. The Croatian people are not the geese that will go into the fog, but it is possible when the fog rises that you will lose the elections and trust of the citizens and that people will understand that they did not vote for you but only against what they thought was not good and that they wanted to change in this country. We representatives of the HDSSB call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to change the provisions and proposals of this law in the second reading and that trade unions and workers in the Republic of Croatia are equal partners with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what some of the trade unions, the Association of Citizens and Employers, do not go politically under the hands of your Government. We are all representatives of the Croatian people and of all workers in this country, and you, Mr. Minister and your Government, should serve the people, not yourselves. Because a very fast voice of the people can change what was in the last election. The HDSSB club does not support this bill in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10446	The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by counterpart Mladen Marelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10447	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. A fellow Salapic said a few incorrect allegations. The story of the union fraud, I think he was a member of the team for 8 years who not only cheated on the union but also brought all of us and brought Croatia to this level that this government must suffer severe torture and thinking quite seriously to bring this country to normal. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10448	My colleague Marelic wasn't exactly a correct correction to the incorrect assumption, so we have the possibility of a debate so. Okay, so we're done with the club debate now, and word is Minister Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10449	So when we refer to history, I hope you've read both versions of the law, I hope. Because the law you are calling upon, which Minister Popiac and his working group tried to pass, I have this second version of 4.10.2011, where the remarks of the International Labour Organisation, which unfortunately never went beyond this paper, remained somewhere in the impasses of the Ministry of Economy. So when, I hope you have both the law and both, because Article 6. "The Union's representative criteria at national level." When we talk about unions closer to the heart, closer to the fire or beyond the fire, the 2010 proposal says correctly: "The union, or union association, is representative if at least 12 months before the adoption of the request for representativeness is entered in the relevant union register, 12 months.". The bill before you says that at least 6 months before the date of application for representativeness has been entered in the union register of higher levels. What does he know, which one's more sweet, who's less kind? That employers associated with that association, excuse that she or the joint unions have at least 50,000 members who pay the membership fee. This is from 2010, from 2011 that she or the union unions have at least 50,000 workers. It shall include at least 5 trade unions operating in the areas of activity identified by the national classification of activities. Article 3 of the Law provides that at least 5 trade unions operating in different fields, i.e. sections of activities, are set out in the national classification of activities. Is there a difference? Well, there isn't. That she or the joint unions have district offices in at least 5 counties, and that's your proposal for a 2010 law. The bill that you have not benches says that she or the union unions have district offices in at least four counties. Did we make it difficult for some union centers to join together and become representative? In the 2010 representation criteria, it says it has a special space and other material working conditions and employs at least 5 workers on the basis of a non-determined working contract and full-time. On a new proposal for a law to have the necessary space and other material conditions for work, and to employ at least 5 workers based on the Labour Treaty. So none for indefinite working hours, so now tell me who made the concessions and who made it possible for as many centres as possible to be representative. And I'm sorry that this law since 2010 which has obviously been good and that, should have been passed, obviously you didn't have the courage to bring it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10450	Some of Minister Mirand Mrsic's allegations want to correct distinguished counterpart Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10451	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you listed amongst others when you were talking about the right to strike, how it is not true that you wish to abolish the right to strike, but only can you refer to certain union associations to those of their fundamental activities. But when it comes to that, I invite you to take care of it. We always look up to the European Union. I'll give you an example of German legislation. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10452	Don't call your friend Buriæ, make it right. Comrade Buric, please. Let's be so kind as to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Do not call on the minister, but correct the quote, if you have applied for a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10453	All right, all right. So I'm going to give you an example of what it's like, we're really referring to Germany, how it's regulated in Germany. So, by 1995, it was often interpreted in court practice that constitutional provisions were written only fundamentally... And since 14.11.1995, it has been clearly said that all union activities have been protected. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] So when you talk about one thing
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10454	Comrade Buric, your time has run out for this attempt to break the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Comrade Buric, you see fellow Buric for this kind of behavior, the citizens do not respect this institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10455	You took away half a minute from me, Mr. Vice President, half a minute you took away your incursions, and you wouldn't let me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10456	Because you're correcting the quote? You're not correcting your friend Buric's quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10457	I say what needs to be said, but I say what needs to be said, and you tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10458	But you can't say what.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10459	I ask you, Mr. Vice President, that you too make sure that you do not interfere with the representative in carrying out his duties, which is a speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10460	You see, fellow Buric, it is my duty to conduct a session here, it is my duty to warn my representative of business. No, I must warn you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, you and all the other MPs. Let's do each other a favor and stick to the Rules of Procedure as much as possible. We are moving on to an individual debate that was first reported by distinguished counterpart Branko Vuksic. [[Intruder Dinko Buric: You took more than half a minute from me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10461	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Now, I'm a little scared, I'm upset, but I'll try, I'll try to make it work. Whatever you say, whatever you decide, what can we do for you? That's how every law is proposed, and that's how every law is passed in this House. It's like telling us as much as you know, and even knowing more than we do, we won't respect your opinion, nor will we take your knowledge. Besides, what you can do to us, there's nothing you can do to us we have hands in the air. That is how this law is passed, so this law will be passed and we will see ultimately that the best proposals for workers' rights will not be respected as nothing has been respected so far. Now I'm going to call Sweden. Before my colleague said don't call Sweden, I'll call Sweden. Now call on the government gentlemen of Sweden to be such and such rights, give rights to workers as they are in Europe. Someone said before, let's look up to the right workers in Europe. No country in the European Union is and will not get out of the crisis cheaply paid, oppressed worker. This bill goes to weaken trade unions and weaken labour rights. What are the objectives of the Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining. No statistics have been presented except that the minister has read several data, no analysis of the situation, no precise analysis of the situation, no clear criteria. Even concepts are not harmonised, so areas negotiated with the level of negotiations are being pursued. The concepts are irrelevant to the legislator because the government is above the concepts. So you wouldn't be if the government was above this House, above Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is exactly the same as whether it is a trade union at the level of the Republic of Croatia, according to this proposal for a law that negotiates at national level for collective agreements of activity or branches, which can negotiate at the level of the employer, and whether it is a trade union operating only with the employer. Are those two unions even? Still, should power and independence, or addiction, distinguish them? It should, but the government doesn't do it by accident. Not by accident! There is no consensus on the objectives of the law. As a consequence, there is no consensus on the consequences that this law will result after it is adopted in the House. Is the goal, as it says in the bill of law, of rounding the union, of strengthening the union scene. A little morgen, I'd say, would be the former prime minister with a grateful view of the world. The government is according to the bill to the union as to last year's snow. This law encourages further Union twirling, and thus beating the union's blade, thus reducing workers' rights. It is precisely the identification of national trade unions and trade unions that act only at employer level that is devastating. That identification is the goal of destroying the union. What will the employer do? How will he approach the collective bargain negotiations? They will favour their home almost private unions, and trade union leaders will further stimulate them. What will collective agreements result from this synergy look like? I would not better write a Croatian employers' association of such proposals. Such trade unions are either founded by employers or are based on the mercy of employers. This intention is not honorable, and even if you want to, it's another one of the auto goals that Zoran Milanovic and his ministers stick around every day. They'll be back tenfold. The legislator wanted to throw a bone among the unions, especially those domestic, yellow, divided the union scene already quite divided by what the authorities have been doing for 22 years. The government provides for this bill and negotiations on special rights, thus devoting the efforts of professional unions that it recognises, which are struggling that collective agreements should not and cannot be the specific rights of workers, members of the unions. Second, the higher level of pranks is that this law defines the rights of the second law – the Labour Act. At the small door is trying to abolish the application of legal rules, although Zoran Milanovic promised that the ZOR would not touch, the Labour Act will not touch. He was hypocritical, first when he signed a referendum on extended application of collective contract legal rules, he was not the prime minister, only the SDP president. But watch the door, get that SDP and SDP president with coalition partners elections and Zoran Milanovic becomes a different person, changed his function. Now he sees things more clearly. The workers are no longer so fond of him. It is now run by a country where the main word has tycoons, capitalists, media moguls, employers' associations, managers who drag Croatian citizens to foreign states and fill their registers. Now the ZOR needs to be changed. How? Circularly, one law requires the mine of another. And who does the government actually mine? The workers. This is anti-work law, this is a law to break a union scene, this is a law to turn workers like we say into slaves, and I'll explain why. Yes, slaves. The slaves once had the right to apartment and food, today the workers, 80,000 of them working, and they have neither apartment nor food paid. The employers are far more honest here. They object to one law abolishing the rights of the other law. Do it openly, not secretly. Change the Labour Act, and call a referendum, let the people know if your dealings with the workers is what you need to do. After all, the Croatian Parliament has never once decided to call a referendum. The opinion of the Constitutional Court has been respected. This is the first and last chance not to base both original powers and on the basis of 717000 signatures the Croatian Parliament reports a referendum on the question that we all know and the answer that the Government knows well what the answer would be. And I'm just going to make a reference. Mr. Mrsic used to say that much more liberal members of the Kukuriku coalition are in the draft of this law, because they did not prescribe that unions should work indefinitely. That's what, 80%, 90% of the workers will be employed indefinitely. That's what this government advocates, too, that workers can be thrown out on the street in no time, because they say it's labour flexibility. We'll all be flexible, almost flying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10462	There's three colleagues at this exhibit. They want to replicate. First in line is Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There you go, dear colleague. You're wrong to start with. This law is very clear and very precise and Article 12 of the distinction between the area and the level for which it is collectively negotiated. A colleague, it is very clear that the area is as one set of activities and is the level of one employer or more employers. So you're wrong when you claim the law to be a misdemeanor and it doesn't tell them apart. Here's what I didn't want to correct the incorrect quote to give you a chance if you wanted to answer this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10464	The second line is the esteemed colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's not... so at one point you said to an esteemed colleague that the government would break this thing down sooner or later on. It's true. But you immediately reminded me of that thought by Mesa Selimovic when he said there were three large vices in life, alcohol, gambling and power, that the first two could somehow be cured but from the third one was hardly treated. But you reminded me, and I think you should take a good look at the ruling law that you are proposing and about the famous speech of the great Croatian politician Stjepan Radic back in 1918, who then said something that could still be said today, was also about the previous government, and here, six months later, I will remind you of several of these sentences to take care of the timeless meaning of those words. "Lords, the most terrible thing is the greatest sin and the greatest political mistake of its own people put before the facts, i.e. make politics about your lordly will without the people and against the people. If you don't believe that God has given everyone so much to live for. It won't be long before you see how the Croatian people in their republican and human consciousness will blow you away just in the moment you think that the people have calmed down and you've rode them well." This law is aimed at riding already and so poor and dissuaded workers, and in these words, Stjepan Radic would do well to take care when proposing not only these but also other laws that harm Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10466	This replica will be answered by respected counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10467	Here's an esteemed colleague very briefly won't be as profound a thought as you've read. I'm not Radic. But Mr. Lesar had previously said that a similar law was proposed in the Croatian Parliament in 1991 and they called it a jokeof law, this year 2012 to be in spirit this is an unsalted joke.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10468	And a third replica of a respected colleague, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10469	Thank you. Well, you've noticed that at the previous agenda point, we were full of the Swedish Scandinavian model, we've instructed Danish examples, all Scandinavian examples. About democracy we weren't asking what the price was. There is no price we will not pay for the welfare of our children, our disabled, our women, our endangered citizens. Now that the issue of labour rights is more Scandinavianization is out of our minds. Not Sweden, not Denmark, not we're who we are. Now we're pretty much here and we're wondering what we can do, if we can and how much we can. Well, don't the rights and these categories come from these workers' rights and the rights of our workers? So what happens to our children and our disabled and all social categories if these workers can't achieve those rights at least that circle of rights in the way they've achieved so far? Well, then it would be good if we could at least try to declare or legislatively and apply it to workers' rights so broadly at the previous point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10470	And this replica will be answered by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10471	Dear counterpart Djurovic, you have listened to probably the last few years that employers are being disturbed by collective agreements that employers have asked the former government to try in any way to abolish collective agreements, to change the Labour Act and have been consistent in this. And now that this law is proposed, say it's not a good way to end collective agreements, that collective agreements are lifted by another contract. First of all, this government, which calls itself a Social Democratic, is absolutely certain that it is not a social democratic show with this contract, shows that it will benefit primarily from capital and that workers, and especially workers who would have a standard of rights, the standard of some Swedish, Finland or not, give God of Norway, who are certainly the most protected workers in social rights, so that this is all that the Government does to satisfy the minority and to harm the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10472	His right to go out for a pay phone will now be used by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10473	For the sake of history alone, respected representative Vuksic quoted him as having the necessary space and other material conditions to work and hiring at least five workers on the basis of a working contract. Well, we're some of the key things this government has passed on to itself and the government has answered, but there are 80% of the laws that are in line. This is what the unions were looking for, and this is consistent with the unions. So if someone protects the rights of workers, then they protect the unions. So this is an agreement with the unions, so it's not our invention, but it was an agreement to make it possible for the unions to meet the criteria as well as simply as possible. Obviously, you've been deleted from one part of the union where the other part of the union thinks that 20% of membership representation is enough for someone to be representative. The second part considers that collective agreements must be based on talks with the trade union profession. Therefore, the union scene is what it is, and when the collective contract expires, then there are three protection mechanisms, one is a labour contract, the other is the Labour Regulation and the third is the Labour Act. Therefore, it is not true that it is left unprotected, and it is up to us to work on as many collective agreements as possible and that these collective agreements are of quality, to be agreed on in such a way that the criteria can be met and that both sides are satisfied, both the workers and the employers' sides, because the satisfied worker will be more productive and productivity will be much higher, and as far as employers are concerned, he must meet the things they agreed in collective bargaining. So equal treatment to everyone, because this government is government and employers and the government of workers. Therefore, this law enables all equal start in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10474	Some of the ministerial allegations want to correct counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10475	You told the Honorable Minister that I was deleted obviously from a part of the union. That's your incorrect allegation because by talking about this problem I've talked to almost all the unions because we are a party that contacts unions but we get information from them, they don't briefing us. Our attitudes are not affected by unions, and even when it's necessary to be as flexible as you said, the trade unions told us to make that provision. If I were a labour minister, I'd take for a slightly different provision in the law that allows for an undefined reception because unions should fight for it. ... You don't always have to listen to them. (Laughter) [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10476	We'll proceed with an individual debate. Dear colleague Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10477	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Well, I have to get to this because now I really don't understand who we need to listen to anymore, but okay. Today we've heard more things in this debate, we've heard some concrete remarks about the law, we've heard that it's bad, but not necessarily and why it's bad. I'll say on my part why I think this law is good. First of all, because this law allows the exact opposite, i.e. the opposite, to encourage union mergers, union circles. This law will drive trade unions to join together and to be stronger and as such to be stronger not only interlocutors but also corrective to employers and government. I don't see, I really don't see, and I read the text of this law, which drives the unions to share, thereby fragmenting them, thus reducing them. However, they are driven, they are inclined to association in order to meet the conditions laid down by this law and so that they can be representative, and only those who are the greatest and thus the strongest can be representative. We heard further that we advocated Scandinavianisation in the morning, for good European practice, and now we forget about it this afternoon. That's not true either. It is in this law that the principles set out in the European Social Charter are incorporated, and this determination of representativeness is based on the predetermined precise and clear criteria that are known to all. Furthermore, those trade unions which are not representative under this law are still guaranteed the possibility of trade union work, trade union organisation and representation of workers, except in those segments prescribed by this law, which is a segment of this negotiation, unless they agree with other trade unions and can continue to represent workers or if they are the only trade union with the employer. Furthermore, representativeness will be determined by an independent body as referred to in the pre-determined and clear criteria. And finally, that union that is not satisfied with such a decision against it will be able to initiate proceedings before the court to determine its representativeness. So I do not really see what does not comply with European standards, with European principles and with documents adopted not only by the European Union but also by the International Labour Organisation. Furthermore, we talked about professional trade unions. So what's wrong with them? Which is bad in those unions that gather workers from a certain branch, from certain activities and represent and represent their interests. In my opinion, these are trade unions that often and best know what the problems of those workers they represent are. And I don't see why such unions would not be able to represent those workers in collective bargaining, but only for the area they operate in, not for every area. For that area where they work. And there will be no situation for the employer to organize some of his trade unions, no. They'll group the way the workers want. The colleagues of the Labour Party, or Croatian Labourists, believe that this is not so, that, of course, employers will organise their trade unions that will represent the interests of employers and that is your legitimate right. Just as it is my legitimate right to say that it will not, and I am not based on feeling but on practice so far, not only in Croatia but also in other countries. This is why we believe that this law is necessary because this law will allow workers in negotiations with the government, with employers, to represent those trade unions that have the right to do so, which right has achieved what is most important, which is the number of members. On the contrary to what you claim, this law will make it impossible for the employer to enter into contracts and negotiate with a union that has a member who is appointed in that position by the employer. That is why I believe that this law should be passed and more or less in the text as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10478	We'll hear two replicas of this exhibit now. First, dear colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you said you didn't see what was wrong with this law. The basic problem in this bill is not the provisions of this law itself, but rather the fact that this law imposes some of its provisions into the other law, and more dangerously, it is the intrusion of the Labour Act because the adoption of such a bill suspends certain articles of the still applicable Labour Act. And that's the basic problem. And I will especially apostrophe, not to talk about Article 253 again, 254. etc., on Article 262, which was the basis when more than 717 thousand Croatian citizens signed a request for a referendum against the abolition of the provisions of the Labour Act. And the Honorable Mr. Minister should not remind again that the current prime minister then also signed the same petition, and this bill suspends Article 262 which says: "if the collective agreement does not specify otherwise after the deadline on which the collective agreement is concluded contains rules governing the conclusion, content and termination of the working relationship remains applicable." So, with such a proposal, we've limited the duration now. And on the other hand, I'll remind you of something else. Such a bill cannot escape the knowledge that workers' rights are being reduced, and it pleases employers. And this is in direct contrast even with the very notion of a social democracy that social democracy is based on legislation aimed at reducing inequality among citizens. And now we're going, here I'm finishing, we're now going according to a law that suits the minority, employers, to the harm of the majority, which is mostly Croatian citizens, or workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10480	The replica matches the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10481	Thank you. Well, I'll agree with you in part. It is not common, and it is not often that one law changes the provisions of another, but it is not even illegal. This is about the laws of the same level that are adopted in the same procedure, and this House has full authority to amend this Act and any other law other than those for which it is prescribed to be adopted in a second or stricter procedure. Besides, this is not the first time something like this has been done since, for example, several years ago, the Executive Law amended the provisions of the Law on Prosecution. So even though it may not be an ideal way, it's certainly not illegal, and it's also legitimate. As for reducing workers' rights, I will have to say again that I disagree with you because I believe that this law is exactly the opposite of strengthening workers' rights because it is ensured that workers represent those unions that have the legitimacy of the number of members, not those trade unions as I said before who have only one member and often serve makeup, in which case, serve to make up an employer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10482	Another replica is respected counterpart Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There are no unions with one member, ten of them need minimum to be a union, but I'm replicating what you said that through the courts' unions in that case they can get their rights. There's a colleague named Hrelja laughing at it. In this room, you have people who have been running their work-law disputes for over 10 years. For 10 years, you will wait for the court to resolve something where you are clearly denied. It definitely doesn't exist, probably all the living would give up on it. And the other thing, professional trade unions – I come from the Croatian Railways system where very difficult and long strikes have been carried out in time. And when there was no way for any other way of breaking, starting with all possible repressive measures being used and legal and even outside the law and then reaching out even for, not even, but as the most effective way to solve that problem were established professional trade unions. So in a very short time of two or three really powerful unions were created 24. And that's exactly what's going to be created right now. And now you're explaining to me that it's working for the workers? So it's just going to destroy the union scene, to destroy the workers' movement. And what's worst of all he does is call a social democratic government. That at the worst times when it was, when they even had an excuse to work, wasn't trying to make HDZ. This is really embarrassing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10484	And this replica will be answered by the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10485	Thank you. You're right fellow really ten workers are needed to establish an association that has the right to bear the name of the union. But it is enough for one employee from that association to work with one employer so that he has certain rights prescribed by the Labour Law, and until the adoption of this law and the possibility of the employer choosing him as the sole representative for collective bargaining. Furthermore, your colleague is wrong even when you talk about judicial protection. If you had read it, you would have noticed that Article 17 is a prescribed obligation for the competent court to make a decision in the dispute on representativeness within 30 days. Now, you can doubt the Croatian judiciary, I, even though I have worked in that system for years, still have some hope for it and I hope it will respect this deadline. And finally, this example that you were talking about serves me as an example of why this law should be passed. We talked before about areas and levels of negotiation. The area is defined by the national classification of activities and within the area, within which you have previously spoken under these conditions could only be represented by one union. Read the Law, Article 12. - Area. Only one union would have the right to negotiate, not these 24 you say were artificially created. And that's why I think this law goes to the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10486	We're continuing an individual debate. It's the representative of Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10487	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In connection with the proposal for a Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining, I would like to express some of my personal thoughts and views. So here is what is written in the proposal for this law the right to free and organised association with trade unions and employers' associations that is the freedom to establish and associate alliances with alliances and associations of higher levels as well as association with mutual organisations of workers and employers, and all in order to protect and promote their economic and social interests are guaranteed to workers and employers by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as fundamental human rights and freedoms. The right to mutual collective bargaining has been governed by several Conventions of the International Labour Organisation relating to freedom of association. The right to organise, the right to collective bargaining and social dialogue, and there are other international agreements guaranteeing this fundamental human rights and freedoms. The European Social Charter, the Convention for the Protection of European Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In national legislation, this matter is governed by the Labour Act, this law lays down a legislative framework for the conduct of bipartite and tripartite social dialogue. And by enabling the establishment of an economic social council as the highest tripartite body at national level. The criteria which have so far been applicable to meet the conditions for the drowning of associations, trade unions, higher levels in tripartite bodies are prescribed by this law. The conditions set out so far are complex, slow, expensive, and question credibility and ineffectiveness. Namely, the terms or associations of the multi-level trade unions, with at least 15,000 members paying membership fees to the joint unions, and to associate at least 5 trade unions at the national level of the activities of professions or companies, which are included in the register of associations headed by the Ministry of Labour. To act through its organisational units in the area of at least 11 counties in the Republic of Croatia. Issuing part of the union membership fee for the financing of associations. Article 3 of this proposal prescribes simplified criteria for the multi-level representativeness of trade unions for participation in tripartite bodies at national level. Here are some controversial conditions for representativeness in tripartite bodies at local and regional level. At local level, this is a little more difficult to pass on in terms of the work of the Economic and Social Council, which the bill provides for for units of local self-government, although it is said to be adopted by the Statute of the Unit of Local Self-Government. This objectively raises issues that have been raised over a period of 3 years since the adoption of the Secretary-General's resolution, and are no longer representative, which have been acquired in the meantime and which are not in a position to become representative before the end of the period. Of course, this happens unfortunately in the movements of what we call the labour market currently in Croatia. And while collectively negotiating the employer's position is different and it is more easily joined and organised faster for collective bargaining, which is logical. This should be the same in the case of workers' representatives, in particular by respecting the Labour Act of Article 254 when several trade unions are represented in the negotiations with those same employers. He then negotiates with a negotiating committee composed of representatives of the union. Whether the trade unions agree to agree or decide on this by the Economic and Social Council and how much this reflects the actual representation of the individual union among workers. Someone's gonna say we don't have to worry because the workers are gonna make a deal. Yes, it could be true if they did so on their own free will without the need to secure the legislative framework. Right now he's here with this law we're securing. The terms of union representation of 20% among workers are not disputed in my opinion and the more it needs to be identified explicitly, and just to strengthen the union scene. The law provides that no representativeness should be established if trade unions conclude a written agreement at the level of the conclusion of a collective agreement on which several trade unions operate. Because then everyone is considered representative, if such a specific negotiating committee can negotiate with the employer, that is, a certain negotiating committee can negotiate with the employer, or an employer's association. In order for the collective bargaining process to be more objective and truly represent workers in the relevant activity, the conditions of representativeness are acceptable, given that they are guaranteed the interest of the truth. It's about the real state of belonging and the involvement of employment in the relevant union. The union scene certainly respects all the fundamental freedoms of association, yet there are trade union organisations that articulate the interests of workers in the same activity, and sometimes in conflicting interests. For example. an independent union within one activity and independently of such activity. Well, sometimes a couple of different kinds. Of course, these are fundamental freedoms, workers' rights, and I don't mean to comment on it, but there is a question of articulation of interest in certain companies or professions, or representation of the interests of workers in similar activities. There is also the possibility that unfortunately because of life’s difficulties, although you want not a very good material position for workers, and perhaps in some cases, and because of the possible questionable distribution of workers often have a participation, or membership in 2, or perhaps 3 trade unions. They are often forced to borrow loans and other forms of assistance and therefore join the same trade unions. It is not, in principle, a criticism, at least of the workers, and it is certainly questionable by the side of representativeness. In fact, workers are not to blame for being brought into that position often, but on the other hand, the representativeness of unions sharing membership becomes questionable. The foundation of the right to fair wages, working hours, vacations and all other material rights is precisely the need for the representativeness of the employer, but certainly the union. Because only such an organized scene can articulate real values and fair distributions on the negotiating scene of social partners. Of course, here is a particular issue of the application of the legal rules of applicable collective agreements, the extended application of which is abolished, and which needs particular attention for a possible different view of the problem. It also seems to me that the impact of the provisions of this law in companies outside the public sector will be different in the area of negotiation. Otherwise, I support this bill, of course, with the need to look at all possible painful improvements that it may need, of course, as part of the talks in this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10488	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reported 1 replica to your presentation, and it is a respected representative of Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Rilje, I had no doubt that after this tract of yours you have read you do not support this bill. I mean, isn't it symptomatic to you, or questionable, that, at the exact time the government presses, therefore, existing collective agreements with a reduction of the rights in it, starting with what you said. So regress, transportation, shoe, reduction from 0.5% to 0.3 for the year of work and all other provisions in the collective contract. Exactly, at that time when the government pressures both health and school employees, etc. It is with these elements that now to be proposed, so the Union Act, in fact, could be said. A law that, as a social partner, the government is one of the tripartite social partners she suddenly takes care of the well-being of the union. Very interesting! And it's very clear if you have any idea that this is exactly how to weaken the union and implement what is thought to be done by changing the collective contract or by abolishing it. You already have in school what is happening now, you have a great dissatisfaction not only with the unions, but with all individuals, but in the offices of the state administration, by regulations of the government quietly and without the knowledge of the public, you have increased your coefficients to the heads of state and in the ministries. Do you know that? So, what you're going to take from teachers, professors, doctors and nurses, you've given to your peers in the offices of the state administration and in the ministries. It's a redistribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10490	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10491	Dear counterpart Grubisic, respected Croatian Parliament Vice-President, Minister, respected counterpart Grubisic. It's very nice to hear, but I don't know how much you've been involved in union work I have. The way you organized it, I did, and you know it, and it's pretty much a lot. I also understand that what you're talking about about management and redistribution now, here I am just telling you about the fundamental redistribution of your understanding that we are in the labour market and capitalist social order. There must simply be negotiations and negotiating teams and relations between employers, workers, therefore, and in some cases, of course, when it comes to a tripartite state, i.e. units of local or regional, or regional self-government. With that in mind, I know very well what you're talking about, and you need to know that everything comes from a bad life that didn't come from yesterday or the day before yesterday. So it came from exactly what it doesn't have. I can't, and I don't want to, and I'm not invited, even though you've taken this opportunity well for a replica about the story of, no, no, about the story of being redistributed to the state administration or not knowing where. But I have to answer you to what I'm saying because my answer to your replica is exactly about the topic we're talking about today, and that's exactly what we can now just talk about right now what's on the labour market and on the capital market and we'll never get away from as much as we try it, you know. And the protection of the union is, in part, the workers are, in part, located as much as you do not accept it through this application. Of course, you can always doubt the application of every law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10492	Thank you, Your Honor. The next debate is a respected representative, Vanja Posavec. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10493	I thank the esteemed Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, in the national legislation, the right of workers and employers to free organisation and association, and the right to collective bargaining are governed by the Labour Act, and this law establishes a legislative framework for the conduct of bipartite and tripartite social dialogue. The criteria and the procedure, determining the representation of associations, unions of several levels in tripartite bodies are prescribed by the Law on the way of determining representation and union organisations of several levels in tripartite bodies and the law stipulates who they are, in fact, which bodies at national level must meet what cumulative conditions. Each multi-level union association that meets the conditions of representation of the law and wishes to be represented by tripartite bodies at national level may submit competence to the Ministry for the work of requests to determine compliance with the conditions of representativeness. But all this work and all that I said earlier in practice proved to be questionable, ineffective, slow, and expensive. The lack of the possibility of repeating the process of establishing the representativeness of those associations which are justified in doubt that they no longer meet the criteria of representativeness could in practice enable trade union organisations, for example because of the fall of their membership in the trade union, to no longer fulfil the criteria for continuing to be represented in tripartite bodies and to exercise certain rights, but at the same time they are not able to implement all commitments taken at national level. That's exactly what we've witnessed. Also, the legislative provisions did not prescribe the criteria of the union's representativeness for collective bargaining at the sectoral, dramatic and regional level, and therefore it was often in practice that trade unions could not agree on the number and composition of the negotiating committee or that smaller trade unions on the negotiating board were obstructing the work and we witnessed it, we saw it through the media. As a result, it is therefore proposed to adopt one regulation that would regulate the criteria and procedure for establishing the representativeness of trade unions, employers' associations and their associations of higher levels both for their representation in tripartite bodies in which social dialogue is conducted and for collective bargaining, of course, respecting all the requirements of international contracts bound by the Republic of Croatia in the field of social dialogue. This legislative proposal lays down the appropriate equivalent criteria for the representativeness of associations, trade unions and employers' associations of higher levels for their representation in tripartite bodies at national level as well as on this basis, privileged rights. However, even in the event of suspicion of their representativeness, it is also possible to reconsider the fulfilment of the criteria for each association without the simultaneous implementation of the procedure for all associations represented in the Economic and Social Council. This is very important in terms of total freedom of association, as a union transition can occur from one union to another, a higher level of loss of membership and the like. This legislative proposal determines the representativeness of the collective bargaining union. The basic rule of determining the representativeness of the union is that each union to which no other union disputes representativeness is representative. In this respect, representativeness shall not be determined if only one union or all trade unions operating in that area conclude the written Agreement on the Joint Negotiating Committee. In the event that they cannot be agreed, the union's representation procedure before the representative committee shall be initiated. The union criteria in its membership must have at least 20% of the workers, members of the union, compared to the total number of union members, employees of the employer acting in the area for which collective bargaining is being negotiated. This proposal protects the interests of members, trade unions who are relatively small by the number of members but are extremely important for the area in which they operate, in such a way that their interests must also be protected in the negotiating committee if at least 40% of their members have the same profession in relation to the total number of workers and the profession, employees of employers who exist in the area for which the collective contract is concluded. The adoption of this law will affect the consolidation of the union movement, encourage co-operation between trade unions in the process of forming a negotiating committee, simplify the collective bargaining system and encourage bipartisan co-operation of the social partners. This proposal could and should prevent the loss of trade union membership, which comes among other things because of the fragmentation and division of trade unions and thus encourage their cooperation. Let us only remember examples of trade unions that are related to education, which could not agree on who negotiates or whose interests actually encourage. What's going on is the fact that the members are getting out of the union. At this point in the economy but in both state and public services, a number of collective agreements that have been concluded at a time of better economic situation and at the time of recession, employers are no longer able to respect it. The problem is that collective long-term contracts cannot be cancelled and there is no need to order the union's interest to conclude a new one. Thus, the normative arrangement has a negative impact on the very meaning and purpose of collective bargaining. The administration on these changes will ensure fiscal sustainability and job conservation but will achieve something else that workers will finally know which union they will represent, which support they can get from the union and who will actually negotiate for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10494	Thank you very much. We have two replicas reported for your presentation. He is the first respected representative of Dinka Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10495	Thank you. I think you are for gender equality, but I'm still a representative, not a representative, but well, that was probably a yes. Dear colleagues, therefore, it is difficult to simply listen to the law being called upon almost in line by everyone to actually protect the union movement, that the purpose of this law is to protect trade union action. Well, no, the real truth is that this law of the SDP of Croatia, along with its partners in the ruling Kukrik coalition, wants the union's role in the Republic of Croatia to be aware of the role it played in the former system in the former Yugoslavia, where the only purpose of existence was to obtain the pig's half, organise a trip, and I don't know what. That's what law enforcement will lead to. And we can talk whatever we want, but what I'm particularly concerned about is, and I have to say, for not to believe it's the state that seems to be more and more like a crazy house now that you have a situation where the Social Democrats are going to tear down workers' rights, that you're destroying workers' rights, and what's particularly surprising to me is here and until recently by ruling or whoever's reporting from HDZ, I'm glad that my colleague is now reporting for at least a replica everyone's silent as if it's none of our business. SDP is silent, HDZ is silent, what is the fate of the growing number of poor in the Republic of Croatia? Let's raise your voice against this. So there's more of us than you at the club, here's 2, 4, 6, 7 so many of us from HDSSB. So let's take care of ourselves, raise your voice against this and it's your job to fight for workers' rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10496	Dear Dinko Buric is a waste of time. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Vanja Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10497	Thank you. My dear colleague, I'm still afraid you didn't listen very well to me. That this law wants to strengthen the union scene but this law seeks to protect workers' rights. Just because the workers are you I found myself in such a situation at school, that no longer knew which union on our behalf negotiates and who launched the strike or did not launch the strike. And when we had problems with the employer, they washed each other's hands. That's true. And we have to say the same thing, I have to say it. Now the unions are working in a way that, unfortunately, honor the exceptions, certain unions that their work comes down to the pig's halves, Easter bonuses and Christmas stamps, and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10498	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's although I'm looking forward to a fellow Buric for reporting, but I have to say that I almost wouldn't report for a replica of exposure in your, say, the first eight minutes when you talked about the criteria for participation in tripartite bodies, about union representativeness, that's the area that should have really been arranged. But when you move to the other part, and these are the transitional and final provisions that you commended in this law, I must react there. Although my colleague Grbin said it was legal, that it is possible for one law to change the provisions of another law, it is certainly not legitimate, it is not fair, it is not polite, it is childish to hide behind another law actually intending to change the law. But it is clear to me that now the proposings are uncomfortable because what they called the ministers of this government, Linic, Mrsic, Jovanovic, the minister of today's job strike, are today called an additional incentive for collective bargaining. So to further encourage collective bargaining, workers' rights will be abolished. Moreover, in the introductory part of this law, which speaks of what is regulated, it says that the criteria of the union's representation process, participation in tripartite bodies, etc. are laid down. But he doesn't say anywhere that it is abolished and that it is talking about the duration of collective agreements and that it is changing the provisions on the duration of collective agreements in the Labour Act. In Article 1 and this article always says what is governed by certain laws, this is not said here, but is secretly then in the transitional and final provisions in the provisions on collective bargaining of the Labour Act. And not only those two provisions that I could yet forgive, which are provisions on the representativeness of collective bargaining, but which are engulfed in the provisions on the duration of the collective contract. Of course, Ministers that it is difficult for you now to propose an amendment to the Labour Act because you would have to interpret what we interpreted to you when you signed the request for a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10500	Replica reply, distinguished representative Vanja Posavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10501	Thank you. I still have to agree with my colleague, Pejo Grbin, but I don't see what's going on here and getting into the Labour Act, but something I actually have to react to, which I don't understand, but I guess you from HDZ know better, which means secretly. It's all written black on white, nothing is done in secret, so you could read it all. This is the first reading, so all those who want suggestions can still be included, and about some secrecy, I really don't see it. ... They have experience, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10502	Thank you very much. Let's discuss it further. Dear Representative Mladen Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with deputies, associates. Dear colleagues. I have to admit, I'm really impressed with this today. It's like giving wolves to watch over sheep, so this great concern of yours for union movement, unionism and labour. I thought it was just that trick from that cartoon di wolf keeping the sheep, but I can see there's more sheep, so we should fall for that story that it's a real concern. As was said here, the debate on the draft law on the criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and the representativeness for collective bargaining, and the text of this law ends on the day of entry into force of this law, the article and this Labour Act shall cease to apply, and the same shall be amended again, and the provision of a member of the Labour Act shall be amended. And then fellow Peja Grbin says it's not illegal, it's legitimate, okay, it's, it's an example when it happened in previous councils that if I'm not wrong with the Law, it's also done something, so I assume that the opposition, then the opposition with enthusiasm, has received it and that they were heartily supported by such a way of resolving in this case the Labour Act which practically abolishes certain rights even though the Labour Act doesn't change. The very fact that at 17:27, the same thing is discussed is enough about how honest the proposing's intentions are. We can fool ourselves, but there's no cameras, there's no direct transmission, except for the constituency television, and that's saying enough. Ministers, you said you were open to all proposals, so here is your well-meaning support for the proposal of the Croatian Labourists' conclusions. You got it, I know you're familiar with it. Given your introduction that you are open to all proposals, here is an opportunity to prove this in view of the end that the minister himself said there would be no practice so far that all proposals coming from the opposition would be rejected by automation. Here's an example, I think that would be the first time in this session, but for a good start it's never too late. All the time, there's been a mention of Malta not giving a shit about unions, about a small number of memberships, how to do that. It turns out it's in your best interests to have unions that are really strong, I think it's your real interest. It's very easy to solve, here I suggest you enter into the Labour Act the provisions of the collective contract only apply to the members of the union who signed it. In case your unions get too strong, you can obstruct them again in a way that gives greater rights to those who are not members of these trade unions. So you have countless options on this issue, but let's say your concern about increasing the number of union members would be an effective way to solve it. As I recall, you were in the opposition quite often saying that in the future as many people as possible should have, as many workers contracted to work indefinitely. If I remember correctly, I read it on several occasions. I hope you're not going to say that this is also on track that this is the same goal because this is as soon as the workers' movement is weakened, the weakness of unionism is certainly not as the goal of having more contracts indefinitely. Several speakers here have mentioned that we should have a role model for the EU country. We have also heard a few examples of EU countries that have an extended validity of collective agreements. Which is why if we rely so much on ourselves, that is, our role model are those EU countries, which is why we don't apply it to us. We don't need any excessive philosophy, just put that same mechanism in our place and the problem is solved. You mentioned at one point when you went later for the pay phone that there were three other protection mechanisms: labor contracts, labour regulations and the Labour Act. Labour contracts at a time when so many people have over 80,85,000 people who don't get paid for their jobs. How many work contracts are in place. Is this the mechanism of protection, do they have this mechanism of protection? They don't. It's a working rule. The labour rule is a unilateral act in which, as a rule, the provisions of the Labour Act are prescribed and reduced to a minimum, even in some cases, it goes knowingly under the provisions of the Labour Act, which are applied by the worker system, is what is more favourable, though you will have to go to court and whoever loves to choose. And all in all, this whole proposal reminds me of the timing of thatcherism and the destruction of the union scene by Mrs Margaret Thatcher. But just to remind you, both full-time employment and full-time labour movement have strongly condemned it and no one has taken it with enthusiasm. I suppose you're going to realize that nobody's going to be thrilled with that either, but well, that's your position, your option. And clean yet, although this is my debate, but I need to look back at the replica of Mr. Buric, who said by this law that you are returning unions to the role they played in the former state. There's one big part missing, which is that at the time all employees were obliged to be in unions and to pay membership fees, so the unions were also powerful, where they had to buy the pig's half. Today, however, this is being resolved through the Bonsa fide of Konzum and similar things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10504	Thank you, Your Honor. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first line has a respected representative named Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10505	Well, here's a esteemed colleague I'm obviously going to have to repeat again what I was talking about before. So this law respects the provisions of the European Social Charter. This law aims not only to achieve workers but also employers to represent those who have legitimacy. I'm sorry to have to keep saying it over and over again, but I just feel like you and I have read two different documents and I think we've been given the same bill. Furthermore, you do not have any concrete suggestions because your proposal to apply collective agreements only to members of the union is more like a provocation than a concrete proposal because I think it is wrong. I think the collective agreement should apply to all workers, especially in the light of the provision of Article 7. The labour law which speaks between the three documents mentioned by the Minister, which are the Labour Regulation, the Labour Treaty, the Labour Act and the Collective Contract as the fourth document, which will always be applied to workers by the one most favourable. And you say a worker has to exercise that right in court. Unfortunately, it is often true, but I am responsible when in court Article 7 always applies to workers the most favourable law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10506	Here you are, the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10507	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I told you about this working-law relationship that you have in this courtroom, you have a colleague in this assembly who's been running a work-law dispute for 10 years and you're going to get it and you're going to get what's more favourable for you. What's gonna be more favourable after 10 years? Well, I mean, it's really declassified. And what you're telling me is it's a provocation, it's not a provocation, why not? If that's the kind of concern that's been shown here, is that a provocation? So much concern here for the labour movement, for the unions and the workers. So give it to them, give it to them, okay, install everything that unions choose and only they have the right, just their members. And isn't this a provocation for you to say you're fighting for the workers' movement? So this is destroying the workers' movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10508	It was an answer to the replica of the respected representative Mladen Novak. And the next replica on your basic exhibit is the respected advocates of Anne Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Novak, you mentioned here that, of course, the problem is that apart from the matter of representativeness that can also be discussed is actually the problem of this law which abolishes Article 262. The labour law, and it is an unlimited extension of the expired collective agreements with which I would agree that this should be regulated because, of course, it is not possible to maintain certain rights if the economic moment does not allow it, unless there are simply no material goods to be respected. I would agree with that, but to do so clearly, honestly, and to amend that law that regulates that matter, and not as I said in secret, and to repeat it secretly in the transitional and final provisions of some other law, so that the opposition didn't notice it might have gone undetected. And just to be clear, I will warn you of something else because in the transitional and final provisions, it says what will happen to those contracts that have not expired yet, and it will expire, so they are allowed to be extended application for 3 months as well as those that have expired that they can still be extended for three months. However, what is not clear to me in Article 5 of that Article is that, at the agreed time of application of the legal rules of collective agreements which have expired or will expire, no provision of Article 7(1) shall apply. The labour law. And I read the provision of Article 7(1). A labour law that says "employee, worker and working council and trade unions can negotiate working conditions that are more favourable to workers than the conditions laid down by this or other law." What would that mean that during these three months, this is not worth it so that more favourable conditions can be agreed on? So, and those three months won't be worth more favourable terms than those in law and then I really don't understand what those collective agreements are all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10510	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica of the respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10511	Thank you very much. I answered immediately, and then I heard that you answered yourself essentially. The fact is that not only is it going to end Article 262 and it's not, we can discuss whether it's good, it's not well solved, whether it should be solved or not, but the fact is that it should, there is a Labour Act and why not, you have such a voting machine that you can get through whatever you want. And why go with these now to tell the jokes? Why don't you go with the amendment, the special material of the amendments to the Labour Act in which it stands we end it either that or all or I don't know what you're already deciding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10512	Thank you, too. We are going with the next debate and I call on the respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to talk about this. The next representative is a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja and his 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10513	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Assistant Chief, colleagues and colleagues. I will talk about this bill, and that is why I answered the individual debate, in a different way because I am bound by a long-standing experience in collective bargaining, and I have been a participant in the period since 1992 when I participated in the signing of a collective contract of metal activities under bombs in Slavonski Brod in Djura Djakovic until 2003 when I came from the union to politics or I took part in negotiations for more than 80 collective contracts, which at the level of the branch of activity, which at company level. So I don't think there's anyone else in this assembly. I respect everyone, I respect all the theoretical knowledge, but I give experience one great irreplaceable dimension. What do I mean by that? I'm saying that I'm qualified for this matter, and I'm saying that I have the right on behalf of those who sacrificed themselves to make it better for my fellow workers to get 10 grand more pay, that I owe because part of me is always there and I thank that previous job so that I can do this job the way I do it, correctly. Therefore, I am obliged to shed light on their face because they have constantly upgraded the rights of workers by their actions. There were 120 collective agreements in Istria when I left the union. Today, early 1996. Today, there are 227, an average of 1.2 collective agreements per month. So someone's working, someone's unionally organized, someone doesn't have any of these problems that are being talked about here, about collective bargaining. Collective bargaining flows, there are experiences, there are skills, there is a legal framework and whoever wants to negotiate in the interest of their members the way is open. What am I trying to say again? I'm saying that this law has 3 good sides, the first representativeness was to be determined when the representation was not to be established, back in 1995 until 2000 when we asked for it. At that time, representativeness was to be established, but at that time it was appropriate to all the fragmentation of the union to smaller and smaller parts, the weakening of the union compared to a stronger and stronger performance, let's say the representatives of large capital in Croatia. Whether they're ours, or whether they're, how can I say furesti came to look for the source of their earnings? So, then and today it is necessary to establish representativeness, and let the union centres get angry and let the high threshold for representativeness in participation in tripartite bodies be made angry, but it should be and should be an independent commission to decide on it. If it is to be written that it will decide solely by consensus, and not by political revote, because it is about decision-making on the basis of existing criteria. So there can't be a vote. The third thing that's good, this law goes into two readings, so it's not the end of the world, it's not burning, we don't have to react to the amendments right now because I believe there would be. To be justified and unwarranted, because the law can be much better, it can be much better, I'm not saying this is an attempt as it is, but the law can be much better. Look, what's said here is that here is being touched into the freedom of union organisation and action, and we will certainly have problems with the ACC, the European Commission and the International Labour Organization, if this proposal goes this way, but we have time to fix it. Why? Article 253 of the law, all that we are trying to talk about representativeness, puts aside, because it says to negotiate with an employer whose person is willing by means to force the other side to negotiate. So we can set 101 criteria, it'll be met by someone or it won't be met. The employer will complain with the one blocking it, which in some ways in the fight for his interests blocks his profits. They won't need a commission then, he'll come to a negotiating table like in France public service, in a country that's very little unionized, public services because they're a very well-organised union, they can block all of France. To be clear without this law, our neighbouring Republic of Italy, to which we border the long sea coast, has no law on representativeness for participation in tripartite bodies and there is no law on representativeness for collective bargaining, and I think it is one of the most unioned countries in Europe. There are cHGL 5 million members, 4 million Chisel and more than a million members in UIO. There is no law, and they have collective agreements, they also have a system of collective bargaining. Croatia does not have a collective bargaining system from the beginning to the present day. I'm sorry there are no colleagues here, Lesar, because he's one of the responsible why we don't have a collective bargaining system. Why has it never been explained to Croatian citizens and union members that what is the most is the base, that the general collective contract is what starts everything. Why is the system of negotiation abandoned a general collective contract, then an upgrade by activity, at the end of the day and by the professions. So we didn't build a system, he negotiated one that was more skilled, who was more skilled and forced himself, and who knew how to use the political position and blackmail politicians to make a good collective contract for public service, to understand each other. So we have, we don't have a labour union, we don't have a union that protects the interests of its members, we have trade unions that are skilled and that's been going on so far. There's no more, there's nothing to share. Wouldn't it be fair to say, there's no money, we're canceling collective contracts, Mr. Minister? No money, no collective deals, and you're suing, you're suing. Okay, you want the state to go bankrupt, wouldn't that be fair? Don't the unions take responsibility for the situation in society, are they an isolated part of society? Shouldn't they also be confronted with the fact that those rights that are there are too large. But also this way, we can't jeopardize all the good we have in those small collective agreements with private employers, with foreign owners. You know, I've spent a lot of time convincing Istracement, Internacional and their owners that civilization's reach is 0.5% per year of internship in Croatia. That it's a civilizational achievement, that it's a system of advancement during work. Is it because public services have been given an ever-increasing part of the cake, because they were closer to the fire, that's why we're going to have to work hard and what's hard to negotiate tomorrow can be renegotiated, is that what we're going to bring down? Because remember if you once touch for public service that institute additional to the years of internship, in the next negotiation the employer to the full private firm will say, and there is no state anymore and you are gone. What's going on with that? Income cuts, contributions decreases, local community income decreases. We're in a closed circle all the time. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I highly appreciate your dynamism and your goodwill. I think it will be crucial and that we will sit here seriously around this law one more time before the second reading to face all possible consequences and find the best solution. So I immediately sign if this law carries a bill on the criteria for participation in tripartite bodies with these two positions that we must have, therefore, both the commission and the proper censorship, the criteria for representativeness immediately, and I leave this second one questionable. And another dilemma to find out. Is it better to talk about tripartite bodies or bodies of tripartite cooperation? Which is more appropriate to our society and our language. And bipartite dialogue is something undefined. Bipartite dialogue is collective bargaining and nothing else. There's no bargaining there. You have a negotiation. We have reached an agreement and it must be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10514	Thank you, too. So for the union too, the clause rebus sic stantibus applies. The clause rebus sic flatibus also applies to trade unions [[/Intruder Hrelja: What?]] There are two replicas reported for your presentation, the first replica is the respected representative of Mladen Novak. [[Intruder Hrelja: Exactly.]] Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10515	Thank you very much. I have to admit, this is a little out of the ordinary right now. I thank my colleague Hrelja for making his contribution in this case to the opposition positions, but I know he doesn't, but the fact is it's been common for me to come from this side, and I know it's wrong, but there's no way I'm gonna admit it to you because that's what the party said. On the other hand, you reminded me of something that I simply forgot in my debate, which is extremely important. That's these 0.5%. Those 0.5% and otherwise the destruction of collective contracts in the public sector, the reduction of all rights will completely destroy collective bargaining, collective agreements in the private sector. Because they're always painted in two, three spears down. If you come down here to some minimum here, you've ruined everything. That's a hundred percent. That's what world practice has shown. Only if we do not create a new history in the workers' movement, so we will find ways to bypass all of this together and create a new Croatian model instead of a Scandinavian model that has been mentioned over several times today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10516	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje. Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10519	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Hrelja, here's what I have to do to show you the satisfaction of what your debate is, I'd say a voice of reason. As much as you from the ruling ranks, I only hope that it will not be as many times as we have witnessed in the past government, the assembly of Parliament, and we have had here in these six months. I wonder how you'll vote. You know, you just said you disagreed. When voting for first reading, here I think it'll be very interesting to watch. When you speak your personal opinion, it's okay. You don't have to say that's the attitude of the opposition. The fact is, your debate was on the trail of what the opposition has been saying all along that this law is not good. And here's another reason why, Mr. Secretary, we don't think it's a good bill like this. It is a fact that he even enters, not only violates the provisions of the Labour Act that have already been mentioned so many times in Article 262. It also calls into question Article 285 of the Economic and Social Council's mandate. And there you fellow Hrelja were right, not a tripartite agreement, but a tripartite cooperation. Because Article 285(2) also states that the powers of the Economic Social Council are, therefore, threefold co-operation to address economic and social issues and problems. It's not the government's job to edit a union, it's not the government's job, Mr. Minister, to edit a union scene, but to solve it together with social partners, employers and trade unions of economic problems. And this law goes in a completely different direction. It is that you go to influence what will look like a union scene and organisation of the workers' movement in the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10520	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10521	Okay, well, dear colleague Buric, I know you need to provoke a little because it's part of our political simple treatment, but you don't have to worry about how I'm going to vote as a member of the opposition. This is the first reading, and again I said, sorry member of the position, I apologize to the lapus, because this is the first reading and to fix a lot. And you know, I survived that vote when I didn't raise my hand because of the Public Assembly Act, which is why he fell in the Constitutional Court because there was only one vote missing. You weren't in the assembly at the time, but I survived that part, and my hand was missing. You weren't, well, mine was missing. So, you know I'll manage, but it doesn't matter how we vote in the first reading, it's important that this law is as good as possible when we adopt it, and I think there's room, and it just takes a little effort to sit down and talk and make this law even better. What I cannot accept is the claims made here that collective bargaining was in some way equated with the court procedure. I think you've been involved in a previous replica, collective bargaining is a skill that are informal knowledge, it's experiences, it's a media performance, it's a game. No, no, these are techniques that come up with results. It can never replace a judicial procedure, never and never have to be taken out of it safely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10522	Thank you. Let's discuss it further. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is entitled to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10523	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here were even the civilization achievements like those 0.5% add-on to last year's work mainly in public services. It is true that the public is already whispering that this proposal will be no more 0.5% than 0.3%. So we're reducing civilization achievements, so actually this is an adjustment of the public union scene in the function of what is written on the last page of this bill, which is Article 27, and that 0.5% of civilization's reach is also regulated, so it says a transitional provision that abolishs the institute of extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements. In fact, it's all very clear from this. Now we need to organize a field with this legislative proposal that will, like defense associations, be fragmented and how do you say fragment a union movement that is already fragmented and so on, from the 1990s, when some union officials have allowed that general collective agreement to be ignored and that each of these fragmented union movements than the organization negotiates independently and exposes its skills in negotiations with social partners whether it is the government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whose it is, whether it is about employers. You say well, so it's a three-way negotiation, we can say trilaterally than tripartitely, but here's the thing about Latin and all. It's more verbal than mentioning a phone book that you'd follow up on. Working on indefinitely, someone here was talking about working on an indefinitely in the Republic of Croatia. It's now already a stage fiction Croatia it's a science fiction. So where can you do it? I'd like to see the statistics, how many contracts are mostly in the private sector indefinitely and how much on a particular one? I am convinced that the relationship is more than 10:1, no matter what 10, 20:1 for a certain one. And now we say here that this representativeness of this new representativeness would strengthen the unions. So why are we even going to change the union scene to the Republic of Croatia? Was that what the unions were looking for? No, they're not. Did they sign collective agreements? No, they're not. Did they ask for a change? No, they're not. So who's asking for a change on the union scene? The government of the Republic of Croatia with great care for the unions and what will happen to them and what will happen to them in the future. Well, I've even thought about it since the social democracy that I don't say for centuries has always been the protector of workers, union workers' movements, and even came up with a social democracy not to say from the union that I don't mention all those German trade unions and socialists and the American socialists, that actually unions don't need in this society and social democracy strengthened by the liberal option she'll take care of the rights of workers, she's obliged and bound by both her statutes and all the acts that social democracy is the protector of workers. Then what do the unions do? We have bilateral negotiations, why have trilateral, tripartite negotiations. But it's not like that, unfortunately it's not like that, and this is what this government is showing. It shows it all these six months and proves what's been said to be more liberal or social or socialist or social democratic whatever you want. And it's precisely this bill of law that makes it clear and loud to the public. And that's why this transfer, and this debate without transmission at this time, is that it doesn't know what's going on, that the public is less familiar with it, as it is very little aware of what's going on with the collective contract, what's going to happen in health education, etc. And as no one knows I repeat it again in the offices of the state administration and in the ministries increased coefficients for all department heads, departments, etc. Yes, if they have increased their coefficients, they need to be calmed down from somewhere. It will smell like a mining or reduction of the rights of collective agreements to follow. And this is the intention of this government, quite clearly, completely evident, mainly when reading the preceding article 27, which means that the institute is being abolished, I quote: "the institute of extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements". What does that mean? So you don't have to be too smart to figure it out. And the fact that someone was a member of the union, I was never a member of the union. I was never a member of the union. That's what I thought of as a betrayal not to say maybe social democracy, so it says maybe it doesn't need a union when it's in the power of social democracy. It's kind of ideologically convenient. But those who were some of them did nothing or did little or even reverse the union movement but profited on the political scene. We have, we know well here, I've replicated once already here today, right? Because of this and because of this legal proposal, not secretly as my colleague Lovrin has said, but rather bypassing the Labour Act. One detour, in order to say in Bosnia, the small door is actually being blocked or the legal provisions of the Labour Act are being passed. So that we don't change the labour law that's a referendum... I signed a referendum on the same thing Milanovic signed and I'm not ashamed of it. [[You don't understand.]] I'm one of those 717 grand they signed. Now, if we don't devastate ourselves or Milanovic and the Government, we're going this way and we're actually touching the Labour Act, and that's right, that's what this is about. Mr. Hrelja, I respect one part of your presentation and opinion, and I would like you to advocate it in that sense because you are an experienced union worker and since I really have faith in you and in your good intentions so that in this second reading, you too will give your pain and all those who have said that they were members of the union and who were union officials to work together and all of us to work together, to make suggestions in order to avoid that in this legislative proposal, we are going to enter into the provisions of the Labour Act. Otherwise, the HDSSB club will certainly not accept or vote in favour of this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10524	Thank you, Your Honor. We have three replicas on your display. The first replica is your party colleague, Honored Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic does not fail to repeat this form of law only in the Labour Act, but here he is intruding even into an agreement signed by Mr Ministers on 3 February of this year, the Agreement establishing the Economic and Social Council, which you have put out of force in March 2011 where you have defined in article 10 exactly what the task of the new agreement is, therefore, the new GSV. And nowhere in those vast items does it say that the task of GSV, so all three sides, is that anyone will edit the editing of the other side. It's like now the unions have taken the right to say the government won't look so there's 20 ministries, it won't look like there's so many agencies or I don't know what or who's going to run the HUP, etc. And you are yourself, the government has now given itself the right to regulate the appearance and internal arrangement of one of the parties with which you signed the agreement. Comrade Grubisic, you probably wanted to paraphrasise the fact of how social susceptibility SDP is, so you said maybe you shouldn't have unions. No, no, we need to be clear, the unions are very necessary, and especially necessary in Croatia today when we have the SDP we have, because you already have the saying in the people "preserve us the God of HDZ honesty and SDP's social sensitivity and care for workers' rights".
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10526	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10527	Dear Buric, don't you understand the irony of my sentences and the words I said that maybe unions aren't necessary, since social democracy is full of the mouth of workers' rights and protection of workers. So it was one irony, and here I have to tell the public that it was really one irony and nothing else. And as for editing the union scene that you were talking about in the first part of your replica, it's the same as if you were in my house to determine where the kitchen will be, and where will be the bathroom or the bathroom, whatever you want. It's really something that doesn't belong to a democratic society.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10528	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10529	Dear Mr Grubisic, I don't think you should tie up social democracy and unions. The only real connection is that both social democracy and trade unions grew from a workers' movement that was certainly not at first as it is today's union organisation. However, the fact is that historical trade unions with various political omens acted on these premises, and if you did not know in my former office in Istria, there is one booklet of the Italian, fascist union in Pula, so every government sought to subjugate, politically act on trade unions. But in Italy you know that... The union is communist and socialist, that Chislow's union is democratic, that they're Republicans, radicals and others in the UIL. [[You don't understand.]] It is similar in France, but not in Germany because there is no political union in Germany, but there is a union that acts on the basis of financial power and their strike funds, so there is no ideology there, but there is money on money, and everyone else will have to go to capital with going out into the streets, with protests, etc. And what's important is to say and enrich this discussion is next. The first advocate and promoter of the idea of tripartite cooperation between partners, employers, state and trade unions was not at all a socialist or socialist but rather a German democratic, democratic Prime Minister and this idea was later extended to all of Europe, the idea of tripartite cooperation, and it is extremely functioning in some countries where it could be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10530	Thank you very much. But yet your replica has a reply to the replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10531	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrelja. This was to say, here I confess and instructive and I'm glad to hear about what you said was in your office as you said somewhere in Istria, etc. And any ideological non-socialist, and yet it's socialist, when we look at it, there's another omen that starts with n, so they're also called socialism, is that right, Mr. Hrelja? So, but when I talk about it, the social democracy then writes beautifully in wikipedia, which is a social democracy, and there's hardly any difference between union aspirations and the pursuit of social democracy. Well, here, I'll give you a copy of the wikipedia, and see if you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10532	Thank you, Your Honor. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10533	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, you must have either ironicd yourself or lost yourself with social democratic terms. So how could the Social Democratic Government be in which the capitalist Cacic leads the business? You'd rather be a social democratic government sitting down in Buffalo, say the second-best man in the world, for sure. After all, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister called the workers lazy. So, is this the characteristic of the Social Democratic Government so common with employment? I'm sure he didn't. And I really don't need to thank Mr. Hrelja, the social democracy especially to tie this one to the unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10534	Thank you, too. A reply to the replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10535	I don't want to talk about names, I know that workers are lazy, and peasants are parasites. I'm not gonna say who said that, am I? So, as far as that goes, and those schemes, I don't really know where I'd go anymore. But I'd say something else, what you said, and what this law will bring, and that's kind of a reduction in the possibility of a strike right. But for the strike, no one will ask any of the other social partners, but they will decide this third and those who are not even in the union, who are not members of the union because they are touched too. So neither the government will decide on the strike nor the employers will decide on the strike, and the strike when it is Greece will be a sweet mother. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10536	Thank you, too. And the next replica to your presentation, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Grubisic, you and some of your colleagues here teach us a lesson that social democracy should do. Unfortunately, in Croatia, social democracy comes in a position at a time when deep economic problems cannot be solved easily. By definition, Croatia is a social state, and in every social state it is necessary to protect the rights of the weaker regardless of which government is according to ideological signs in that country. So, it was social democratic, it was conservative, it was some other one by definition of the social state that must protect the rights of the weaker. The only question is what level is protecting them. We, the Labour Act, prescribe minimum standards that should be respected regarding working relationships. Collective contracts must be the ones that will ensure a higher level. Since that is not the case, then it is the government's duty, so the former government has tried to do so, but has not come with such a proposal here to Parliament, to ensure the conditions that it is possible to do so. Each government also has responsibility for the state budget because these are taxpayers' funds and they must in fact be adequate to both the economic situation and the priorities and at the level that a strong economy at that level can also be strong support for those who need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10538	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10539	Thank you very much, dear Zgrebec, thank you very much, Vice President. You said Mrs. Zgrebec that this government came at a time of deep social crisis. So you've known about the deep, corny coalitions that were being staged for the election, about the deep social crisis for a year, two advances. Create a programme and Plan 21 that promised citizens the resolution of the crisis. If you don't know how to solve it or you didn't know how to get rid of it, you shouldn't accept the authorities or go to elections at all for power in the Republic of Croatia. And you'd better give your resignations all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10540	Dear colleague Grubisic, do you know that democracy without power is also powerless? You know that. Thank God. Let's move on. Next respected representative Igor Radjenovic and 10 minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, here's a lot of things we've been told, and we've been lost in these last discussions and replicas quite a bit off the subject and started talking about what this law doesn't say. And it says that the rules of the game are being introduced, and that's what many people often don't respond to and no matter what, at least I'm in this debate and I've listened to a whole lot of complaints about the content of these bill proposals and we've heard that similar proposals have been before, and that they're still closer to reality and we've paid expensive consultants about it before, obviously there wasn't even from the union side of consent which is no wonder, and there was no political will to make laws, that we have to make decisions on this and on all other fields. And this government has decided that these decisions are made and does not want to stand and watch and that the river passes by, and that only decisions are made that are likable, to which someone will applaud, and today how it is. And I think that makes us clearly different from the former government, but we also heard from the opposition that in this part is a very populist approach. What is the purpose of this, the provisions of these laws? It's certainly a consolidation of the union movement. It will encourage co-operation between trade unions in the process of forming negotiating committees and will simplify the system of collective bargaining and encourage the tripartite co-operation of social partners. My colleagues said that before me, and I think it's clear from these provisions and all the reasoned debates. The question is, is it the interest of everyone, is it the interest of all union leaders? Some who are 10, 15 and 20 years in the Republic of Croatia and whether these goals are theirs or the goal is to preserve the positions they are currently in. There are two basic themes. I'll limit myself to them. This is therefore representativeness and extended application of the legal rules. As far as representativeness is concerned, it is clear that no one here is entitled to be a representative union. If it comes to one union, it is automatically representative, and if it is more unions that reach an agreement, then they become a negotiating committee. So there are no problems, possibly if the trade unions can't agree, so in that case, there is a process of representativeness before the commission and the criteria are, and so is the bill of this law to be 20% of union workers compared to the total number of workers. He said the minister himself could be 10%, it could be 25% let the unions agree on it, we have until the second reading. If I can arrange that on another number, there's no reason why we can't agree on that. So far, the two centers, if I understand correctly, are against it. So we can talk about it. A little more excitement, therefore, has passed these provisions on the implementation of the legal rules. I think it is clear to all here well-intentioned that the extended application of the legal rules in the economy, but much more often in the state, in the public services in collective agreements, in public enterprises where they are extended, which are concluded at the time, hence economic growth. And what employers today, even the state at this time of recession and in these difficult times, are no longer able to respect. I think it's clear to everyone that something has to change. A rhetorical question to all of us, do these contracts, collective agreements in public enterprises today, do they affect the standard and life of our citizens, do they, for example, pay through a price of municipal services, do they have their consequences in the incompetence of the economy, do they have their consequences in the additional tax press, were these contracts unfair? Someone said, I think, my colleague Buric, that this is about the inequality of Croatian citizens. Are they really Croatian citizens who did not have the opportunity to be signatories, i.e. that the heritage of such collective agreements, whether they have come into an unequal position compared to all other citizens or yet we have to say something else. Here's one in this respect example of practice and I'll end up with that, and maybe one suggestion. Namely, there are companies, let's say the largest municipal company in Zagreb, it's a Zagreb Holding company that is believed or not in 55 trade unions, if what hasn't changed. You can imagine what it means to negotiate and talk to 55 unions. And their collective contract is concluded not for a year, not for two, not for five, but for an indefinite period of time. I'm not a lawyer, I didn't read it more carefully, but as a suggestion, I don't think Articles 27, paragraphs 1 and 2 have foreseen that possibility at all that contract could be concluded indefinitely, so maybe we should consider until the second reading. Yes, and on that side, we find some possibility that these contracts will really not last forever and that they can be broken up in some way. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10542	Thank you, Your Honor. We have 4 replicas on your display. Let's go in turn, honourable representative Branko Vuksic and first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10543	Dear counterpart Radinovic said earlier that the predecessors had moved away from you, he spoke of an argumentable debate. I will, and here it will seem to you that I will step away from the topic. The debate on the fate of a million and a half people in Croatia is being held after 2 hours without cameras in secret as you secretly wanted to do some of the things you put inside the bill. That's first of all, we could have replaced the dots, you changed the agendas like coats, much faster you're doing it. Therefore, it was certainly planned to do so when there were no cameras. The second thing that is very important was said several times before that the unions wanted something in this bill. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, the unions want collective agreements to be left, so when you're so good at the unions, leave them with these, uh, extended legal rules. And eventually, after tripartite cooperation, there will be a unilateral decision. It all leads to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10544	Here is a reply to the replica and respected representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As in the debate, there weren't many arguments, I have to admit it well to the populist rhetoric, but it's gone. Mr. Vuksic here has cameras, and there's red flat there, and now I'm being filmed being transmitted via Parliament TV, so it's visible to everyone available, on the Internet available today, where we're more or less everyone on the Internet. So, the camera has, because HTV doesn't have a transmission, is it possible through these two transmissions, and given the quality of the debate, maybe it's better not just this one but the usual, so we have 2.09 that we don't really bother the program, 2 HTV programs, when we only have 2 with these discussions. There are a lot of sports, music and other programs that may be more interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10546	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10547	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here is what most opposition colleagues consider very inappropriate, so here is the rude finding that you have now said, that the level of debate in the Croatian Parliament and better that citizens do not listen. That would be the same if I were to say now that your debate was, not only demagogy, it would be very nice, but if I were hypothetically to say it's pure nonsense, you know. But I won't say it, I'm just hypothetically saying it, but listen to my colleague Rajenovic, I'll remind you of Plan 21 of the Kukurik coalition. In that plan, number 10 of work and employment, I will quote to you what you wrote at the time: "We plan to reduce unemployment, and the safety of workers and workers' rights will also guarantee fair laws, trade union support for workers, and severe punishment for those who knowingly and systematically violate labour law." With a bill like this, you are knowingly violating and endangering workers' rights, and indeed, according to your Plan 21, you should also be punished. But you said in this Plan 21 under work and work, and I quote: "Working participation and co-decision as a form of partnership, work and capital guarantees the fairness of mutual relations, social dialogue, safety of work and motivation for work, we are taking on new forms of working participation, leading to the experiences of the countries that have achieved the most on this plan." Of all the things you wrote in Plan 21, there's nothing but exactly what you didn't write and what's contrary to what you wrote, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10548	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that my colleague Buric is reading Plan 21 so carefully, the ruling coalition programme. We've only been here six months. It's the laws we've passed, and that's what you'll remember about the pay, the obligation, the pay, I'll just mention one. If he does not protect the workers and if on this side, therefore the obligation and payment of contributions to pay the salaries, this and a series of other laws best deny us in your positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10550	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10551	Well, here you go, Mr. Vice President, thank you. I'm under the threat of a debate being declared, unworthy of television transmission, due to inadequacy, but I'm going to say it anyway. Now, here's a colleague of Radjenovic's, you said you hadn't heard during the whole debate of the fundamental objections. I don't know what you were listening to. My colleagues have raised a number of complaints about the clumping of the union scene, why they think, specifically I haven't discussed it, but I've heard from my colleagues, and even your coalition partner with a fat and long union experience that has certain essential objections. My fundamental objection was that this law regulates the representativeness of employers and trade unions is governed by the matter of the second law. To listen to you interpret to us now that the economic circumstances have changed and that contracts can't last an ad infinitum that's running out of time I don't know what I'd say is hypocritical, is it rude to listen to you because we're all, I repeat, telling me when you were standing in the tail to sign the request for a referendum. Of course, now you can't change that law that we proposed to change. Unfortunately, it wasn't enough, it was pre-election time, so you both this morning and the minister admitted that you didn't actually think that this article should remain in force at the time but that it served you as a petition of citizens to tear down the government. Here, now, of course, so say it then, that's how it was, let's change the labour law. Now you said you didn't see it, so then you were politically acting, you thought you needed to spend 100 and I don't know 50,000 kuna taxpayers discussing some referendum that didn't have at all here today you say it makes sense to you. And now you're saying that you didn't see in this law any provisions on collective agreements indefinitely as the Zagreb Holding has. Of course you didn't see it, because it's not the matter of this law. And that's why the problem is that it's partially intruding, but I'm reading to you the Labour Act where 15 articles regulate collective bargaining and agreements where a collective contract is written for an indefinite period of time can be cancelled, the one to a certain different and so 15 articles in the Labour Act regulates it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10552	Thank you. Replicate response, Honored Representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10553	Thank you very much. Well, I was just listening to you, Mrs. Lovrin, when you were talking, and you said that these are the very provisions that concern representativeness that are not really controversial and that I can move on from that side. And Mr. Mrsic detailed the bill that was to go, and there was no will or courage for him to come. It is thickly beached by a Brazilian expert if I remember the provisions on the other side. As far as these other topics are concerned, therefore extended application of the legal rules and entry into the second law, so the Labour Act. I'm having a hard time wrestling with you, but I've heard other fellow lawyers and attitudes about it. So it's about the laws of the same level, of the same matter, of the same area, and it's not happening for the first time, probably not for the last time. Therefore, there is no legal objection to such proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10554	Thank you too, dear colleague. And the next replica is the replica of the esteemed Hrelja Silvano.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10555	Dear counterpart Radjenovic, you mentioned that one of the objectives of this law is the consolidation of the union movement. Look, it's an impossible mission to consolidate the union movement. We who know how, because it's been developing and breaking, it's impossible. So that order could be introduced in the union movement as a god and in the registration of political parties and that I should think so. But then we should say no that 10 members of the union can establish a union at the will of the employer, according to their will, etc. There should be democratic standards that they too, their president cannot be elected delegately but must be elected by all members. So it would then consolidate the union movement by proposing a law on representativeness in collective bargaining. I'm sure that trigger may be running, but that's not going to work out. And we need you at this point other than consolidation, or instead of consolidation of the union movement, something more important, which is that partners in tripartite cooperation take over all, so employers and trade unions and states are responsible for the situation in society. 'Cause look, there's a strike in Spain, but it's negotiating. There's a strike in Italy, but it's being negotiated, and it's not unusual. Everyone keeps their acquired rights. There's a strike in Greece, but it's being negotiated, it's being negotiated, I'm sorry, the way out of the situation is being arranged. In Italy, there is a special term of a concert for a system of arrangements to get out of certain situations. It speaks of the seriousness and civilization of a society. And I think we need that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10556	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica of the respected representative Igor Radjenovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10557	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, yes, this term, I agree... The union movement that was so unexplained may have been under-explained, explained. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I was just thinking that way, so in the direction that you agreed he was the trigger you were talking about. And when you mentioned the responsibility for the state of society, it was just the basis of the second part of my debate, the responsibility of everyone together. Because this is the only country we have and the responsibility of the union, but also the responsibility and parliamentary positions, but also the parliamentary opposition to what is happening today and what is happening tomorrow. Not with blind eyes, so where did the water take us to Greece, Spain or somewhere else but to take responsibility for our actions and also for the public spoken word, not just for someone to like in the short term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10558	So that we may not remain in doubt, nothing in the House today has been done in secret, in hiding, in stealing, in secret. The whole debate is in front of the Croatian public, and if there is no television, it does not mean that the public is not represented. ... The possibility is important to ensure the right choice and possibility. [[You can't hear it.]] Thank you very much. And now I ask the Minister to address at the end of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10559	Dear Mr. Vice President, there's nothing to be done in secret. This law has been at a public hearing for two or three months now. It's also posted on the web. All the unions have it, all the legal experts have it. We've consulted various legal experts. Therefore, the public was thoroughly informed of this bill, and all those who had anything to say about the law said or made comments. Therefore, there is nothing to be done in secret. And if someone hasn't seen themselves on television or seen him next door that he's on TV, and that's, if he's watching Assembly TV, he'll see you, if he's watching HTV won't see you. That's the problem with this afternoon's debate. I didn't care when there was going to be a debate. As for collective bargaining and collective bargaining, let the government talk to its trade unions as a negotiator. I came from the second round of collective bargaining today. Therefore, there is absolute social dialogue and negotiations on what needs to be negotiated. The fact is that Croatia is fat in the crisis, the fact is that we can no longer be in debt, the fact is that we have 21 billion and 600 million kuna for salaries in the public and state sector and that we have to sit down and agree in what way. The State or Government has made its proposal under a collective collective agreement on the basis of a collective agreement so that I reject absolutely any insinuation that this bill has anything to do with collective negotiations. Look at what this law looks like. On the other hand, please, if you already want to do this, please inform yourself that the basic collective public service contract lasts until 4.10.2013, therefore we have launched the process in which the government delivered the annex under Article 22 of that signed collective agreement, which is, in Article 22, where it proposes certain amendments to that collective contract. And we are now in the negotiation process, if we don't agree then each party has mechanisms to use. Therefore, the government is at the disposal of Article 23 of that basic collective agreement, which says that if the economic situation deteriorates, then the collective agreement can be unilaterally cancelled and the notice period will last three months. So it has nothing to do with this law. I don't see any connection. Therefore, this law has nothing to do with it, it is being negotiated with the old negotiating committee that signed the contract. We are going to negotiate with civil servants and tenants who stand out 31.7, so we are going into normal negotiations. It has nothing to do with this law. Therefore, I refuse absolutely any insinuation that this law has been used as a certain pressure on trade unions that they must now agree. As for the very frameworks of collective bargaining and which we now have, we have a breakthrough of salaries in the field of health, in the field of internal affairs and in the area of education, science and education. This has been made clear, therefore, that the insinuation that salaries were raised in some state offices that were raised in ministries do not stand because they are visible by the amount of wages. Therefore, look at the payload and see if there are any problems regarding the increase of the wage. But we go back to the law, so we've heard a lot of discussions here, but we haven't heard a single fundamental remark, so I'd like to point out one more thing. So in Croatia, there is definitely a bipartite social dialogue at a very low level, and Croatian trade unions have already not been cross-borderly profiled and strengthened to participate effectively in European social dialogue and participation in European sectoral social councils. It's a normal way to negotiate in Europe. There's no need for a third. This is where the direct trade unions and employers negotiate, so the government is not arbitration there. However, we in Croatia, unlike Europe, where this is one way of social dialogue and negotiation, we have only one bipartite council established at the beginning of this year and it is somewhere in the light that another will be established. So away from what we need. The union structure also depends on the political regulation and structure of the economy, and there is no common European practice in this area. Since they are very strong with the old EU members, as Mr Hrelja said, we have very strong border unions that have already been imposed with their strength and ability in these countries since after the 2nd World War, this has not been regulated specifically by specific legislation and no representativeness needs to be established since no one is challenging it. It's clear to all of us which unions can negotiate, which unions are strong and which can launch a strike. And given that in Croatia and other transition countries it is a very common phenomenon that trade unions dispute each other's representativeness during collective bargaining, this is a visible day today. We have the Negotiating Committee for Civil Servants and Restraints, the Negotiating Committee has not formed because one of the trade unions has challenged the representativeness of the others and we are going to go to the count that is already going on for a month and it will continue because 70 and some thousands of employees and state employees have to be counted and see which one is in which union. We would like to encourage the association of trade unions on the basis of the same interests of certain activities or areas in order to effectively protect the interests of workers, as well as for the participation of social partners in the European social dialogue because 1.7 we become part of the EU and this dialogue will not only be in Croatia but will also be at EU level. When we talk about the harmonisation of the law with international contracts, I must again repeat that the law is absolutely in line with the European Social Charter because to repeat in these criteria one of the criteria is the establishment of the most representative organisation based on pre-determined and precise and objective criteria. The criteria exist, they are objective, so everyone knows in advance what the criteria for representativeness are. The distinction between the most representative organisations and other organisations is limited to certain privileged rights such as For the purpose of collective bargaining, consulting with the public authorities, determining the representatives of workers and employers in between... meetings, so here we are only limited to collective bargaining. Everything else is out of this and all other unions can participate in these talks. Trade unions which are not considered representative and are therefore not represented by tripartite bodies because they do not have the right to conclude collective agreements have not been denied the right to defend the working interests of their members, to organise their own administration and to formulate their activities programmes. That's right. This law does not restrict any of these activities, only that we restrict the right to strike for the rights governed by this collective agreement. This is so normal because all trade unions that are representative of this collective agreement are denied the right to strike for those rights they have listed in the collective contract. Therefore, no one is denied the right to strike for any other thing that is not defined by a collective agreement. Representativeship will also be determined by an independent body in every guarantee of independence and objectivity. So a committee is established which is independent, based on these criteria, will have the task of challenging each other's representativeness to be one arbitration panel that determines whether or not someone is representative. On the other hand, I stress that the representativeness is automatic until someone challenges it. The unions are also allowed the right to judicial protection against a decision that does not recognise the status of a representative union. As you know, he has the right to appeal to the Administrative Court. That's where we put the clause that the Administrative Court should bring the word of law within 30 days. What are the basic principles of determining the union's representativeness for collective bargaining. So the basic starting point of union representativeness for collective bargaining is that representativeness is not determined, that is the rule of this law, until someone else challenges it. Therefore, in the case of a union, it is always representative, no matter how many organised members it has, as will all trade unions in the area if they conclude a written agreement on joint negotiations. Therefore, we do not prevent the negotiation of mergers but only if you cannot agree then we will determine representativeness because it is something that obviously Croatia must be so and cannot be otherwise. Only if they do not agree, and in Croatia it is common, is their representativeness established in such a way that the representative union, which in employers or in the area, or the level at which the collective contract is concluded, has at least 20% of the workers, members of the total number of trade unions, is not of the total number of workers in that area but of the total number of trade union workers employed by the employer or employers operating in the area, or the level for which the collective contract is concluded. This number could be 10, it could be 15, it could be 20, it's a union center deal. In this regard, we are constantly getting from independent trade unions and union associations and from the centrals of the proposals that the number should be. One's 10%, one's 20%, and there's just no deal. The government has put at this point that 20% of the number that ensures that this representativeness is really representative, but again, I'm just saying, only in the case of someone contesting the representativeness of these unions. If trade unions agree between themselves on a negotiating committee, representation shall not be established. Also, what I am stressing again, when we determine the representativeness we are not looking for any confirmations, we are not looking for any names, OIB, JMBBG's, enough confirmation by the employer's authorised director and union commissioner that so many and so many members of that union have been organised in that company and so many members of the union that so many and so many members are paying direct membership fees at the register. So we trust the unions, and we don't think we need any specific checks right now. The issue and participation of professional trade unions in collective bargaining have been opened. We feel it is necessary to resolve this, but not in a way that opens up space for the conclusion of professional collective agreements, because pluralism of collective agreements creates legal uncertainty. Therefore, it is not the intensity of this law to open up the possibility of professional collective agreements being concluded, but professional trade unions are the reality of Croatia and we need to recognise them, we need to include them in collective bargaining, they need to negotiate with all other trade unions evenly, and the signature of a contract without one, without another union, should not be a collective contract signed. Therefore, it is necessary to agree on both the professional union and the branch union or those other who participate in the negotiations themselves. When it comes to the issue of strike, therefore this law did not prevent me from mentioning, once again, the non-representative trade unions to call and implement the strike in order to promote and protect the economic and social interests of their members, salaries or other material rights, but their call for the implementation of the strike with a view to the conclusion of a change or renewal of the collective agreement would be illegal since, as a non-representative union, they were not able to participate in collective negotiations. It's something that even unions will make those who aren't representative to get to their so-called representativeness. As far as this law is concerned, the Labour Act is considered a Bible and is held on a pedestal. The labour law is one of the fundamental laws that determines the labour market in Croatia, but we forgot two other important laws. One of these is the law on representativeness which is as important as the Labour Act and the third law which is extremely important is the Act on protection at work which is just as important as the Labour Act because it defines a lot of things that are related to work, labour and the labour market itself, so that I consider this trinity something that we in Croatia must bring because it is not only our obligation as a government but is a commitment and that we have towards the EU. And the famous article 262, to point out and that in this famous never-seeing law that wasn't so bad, too bad you didn't bring it in 2010, you had the chance, you had enough hands to bring it in. The final provisions state that Article 254 shall cease to apply on the date of entry into force of this law. The labour law. So we believe that this law can, given that it is collective bargaining, we can also change certain articles that were defined earlier in the Labour Law, so we can abolish them in the Labour Act but define them here through this law because we do not abolish the institute of extended application of legal rules but limit them to three months which allows everyone to, if they have the will and will to make a quality collective contract to do so. So this Article 262 and this change that we are predicting is not contrary, it is essentially contrary to the requirements of the Convention No. 98 on the application of the principle of the right to organisation and collective bargaining, however, that Article 7 shall apply in the legislation. The labour law which states that workers are subject to the most favourable law and therefore this article is never disputed, although according to the Convention no. 98 was absolutely subject to change and abolition. We therefore believe that it is necessary to amend the provision, allow extended rules after the end of the collective agreement to last for three months, however, the possibility remains for the parties of a collective contract to use the same extended application contracts, assessing that the three-month period is appropriate. In this respect, no one prevents both parties from agreeing on how long this extended duration of the legal rules can last, but in any case, it allows for at a time when negotiations are being negotiated, at a time when collective rights are negotiated which were important to negotiate at equal levels. One more thing to write down, it's not just one collective contract that's in that extended application at the state level, now we've looked at it quickly, is somewhere over 10 collective agreements in extended application. And that's at the state level count how many more of these are at company level, at branch level. Therefore, I do not think one should check the correct number before the discussion. This can be found on our website, i.e. in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, all collective agreements in the Republic of Croatia will be published very quickly so that everyone will have the opportunity to see changes and who has concluded and with whom other than those who are clearly connected so-called. Households that are related to agreements within a particular company. But then you'll be able to see which company she signed just won't be able to see the text they signed off on. So we'll have that possibility. I call on you to direct us as far as the law is concerned, I have not seen any key remarks other than this remark and in the end where we went to other things that are not related to this law. When we talk about the law, we can divide it into three parts. In the first part that talks about the representativeness of the centralities themselves at the state level, the text is with employers and trade unions we can say almost 100%, and we can say 90% with trade unions almost 100%, and with employers around 90%. This second part we're talking about representativeness is consistent somewhere with some 100%, with some 80%. The problem was this article that spoke about the percentage of the associated members and this last part that talks about transitional provisions there are employers and trade unions did not want to discuss it clearly or to discuss what we were sorry for. We tried several times to start a conversation about it, but there was no hearing on either side because there were things solved in a way that both trade unions and employers didn't want to change that article in this way, but from different positions. Trade unions because they don't want it to change, and employers want it to change, but to open up a whole set of questions about the Labour Act. We have said that the Labour Act at this time is a law that is good, which is hard enough and flexible enough for the situation in which Croatia is. We've lost over 160,000 jobs. Therefore, no one can say that it prevents the dismissal of workers and the loss of work. Therefore, at this point, we think that in Croatia, as far as the Labour Act is concerned, we do not need to change, but as far as collective bargaining is concerned, that these things should be arranged and that all of them should be negotiated evenly. And this famous article 262. I hope it goes back to history after accepting the final version of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10560	Thank you too, dear Ministers of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. There are 5 corrections to your presentations of an incorrect quote. Let's get this straight. Honorable representative Branko Vuksic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10561	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, you've said a few incorrect things. The first thing is that there were no fundamental remarks here in this debate. I don't know why we're even talking if you, Mrs. Lovrin, have told you before what are the essential remarks, so I won't be wasting my time since I only have a minute. You said, "I'm also correcting an incorrect quote, "let the government negotiate with its unions." Where the government has their unions from now on, we have our unions. That's certainly incorrect, I guess. This is not contrary to the law, this is immoral because you of the Kukurik coalition have been against the suspension of the extended application of the legal rules as they are today. You were against it, it's immoral. And last thing, we're not fighting for our picture of the minister on the screen, we're fighting for the truth, and we're not jumping out of pâté, you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10562	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations and the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10563	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Honorable Minister. Namely, you said the guarantee was that there were no increased salaries in the state administration, and what I was saying in my debate, that it was a guarantee that it was not such a mass salary that remained the same. I'm correcting an incorrect quote, and I'm going to bring you written documents that accurately increase the coefficients in the state administration's offices, and that's leading functions in the state administration where the coefficients are increased. At the same time, you yourself know that there are no more shoes in public services, so when I get to the hospital where I worked until about a year ago, didn't those money they took away from those cleaners and all the other people who took it or actually went to the public administration offices. And let me ask you something else, you're also a scientist, do you think that when the collective contract is changed, and when the professors have instead of six thousand kunas here's 4.5, they'll be stimulated to raise and educate our children, and that's our future?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10564	Mr. Grubisic, respect me and the Rules of Procedure and just fix it, and don't ask and suggest in this situation. The next correction of the incorrect allegations and the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10565	Thank you very much. Here, I'll fix it. So, Mr. Minister, contesting the claim by representatives of Grubisic that certain senior officials or senior civil servants were increased coefficients, you said that was not true. And they'd believe your word until we had proof of the opposite, but then you said one inaccuracy and an incorrect quote, which is that it can be seen nicely from the mass of wages. You can't see anything from the salary mass because it can be added somewhere, somewhere it can be taken away, and then it's average or charm, someone eats cabbage, someone eats meat, so it's on average. So you can't see anything from that and that's not a valid argument. The other inaccuracies you said were not to end the institute of extended application of the contract. The point of extended application under the current law that I don't doubt is, I also think it needs to be changed, but it is that it is extended until the next deal, and you are terminating but leaving it, allowing it to last for three months. It's limited by three months, no deal he's done and no good. So you've abolished the institute of extended application as to what its legal current meaning is. That just needs to be made clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10566	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect quote of the respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10567	Thank you. I am correcting the incorrect allegation, Mr. Minister, that it does not affect this law in the basic collective agreement when you spoke of Article 23 which speaks of the termination of the contract and even referred to Article 2 which regulates the duration of time. However, this law also threatens Articles No. 4th and Article No. 5 of the basic collective agreement, which, in the fundamental principles, states that the signatories agree to pursue the following objectives and paragraphs 1 and 1 of the promotion of social partnership and collective bargaining, and in Article 5 of the Convention on 87 and 98, which you have already mentioned, the International Labour Organisations, agree to respect the general importance of trade unions and trade unions. Well, if the government gets in the way and gives itself the right to organise a union scene, then to the doctrine, and doesn't give any importance to the general community importance of unions. No, and you said something else, that the law was consensual. with a European social charter, it is but it is even more consensual with something, and it is with your desire to change, such a change of law, you hide yourself from a possible and growing social rebel of workers who are truly deprived of rights. [[Intruder Joseph Leko: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10568	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you. Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10569	Dear Mr. Minister, you said that union membership is gathering at the register, maybe it's a lapus. In Croatia, it is collected in 99% of cases of pay suspension, automatic pay suspension, and everything else is subject to manipulation and representation of membership, so please be careful. Secondly, you said that these solutions would strengthen the Union's efforts to conclude collective agreements, I'm afraid, I have one dilemma not to strengthen those radical trade unions that are ready for all means to reach their goal. So I have one question, and you think about it. And the third thing, the home collective contract is registered in the offices of the state administration in the county. You can come to them whenever you want, they're very valuable, you have an annex, you have extensions. So there's a lot of things, and I think it would be very useful for our union practice. That's very accessible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10570	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the reports, so I'm closing the debate on the bill. We'll vote once the conditions are met. Tomorrow the Parliament is meeting at 9.30, the usual time, with the first item of the agenda Report on the implementation of the Law on the First Croatian Defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2011. A year. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. Thank you. We are going to the Proposal for a Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective complaints, first reading of the PZ. No. 96. The debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective complaints is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'm asking you to raise your hand and let us know who the proposed conclusion is. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I find that most votes are 78 for and 32 against the proposed conclusion. In line with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, I am voting on the next conclusion. Before the second reading of the draft Act on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective complaints, the Croatian Parliament will be based on Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 3 The law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authorities and local, regional, regional self-governments will call a state referendum on which voters will decide on a referendum issue which reads: Are you in favour of maintaining the applicable legal provisions on extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements? And can the Government, the Proposer's representative, be made aware of the proposed conclusion? I ask the Minister to plead on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10572	The government does not accept the conclusion on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision and the Constitutional Court has said everything about this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-27-0.u10573	Thank you very much. No, there's no statement about that. Please... Not according to the Rules of Procedure, that's how it is, while the Rules of Procedure is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. We can, I suggest that, by raising our hands, we declare a proposed conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get what was needed, in this case? We're good to vote who's against the conclusion? Thank you very much. Did you add it up? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that the conclusion did not get the required majority, as 79 MPs voted against the conclusion, for the conclusion of 9 MPs and abstentions of 23 MPs. Thank you very much.
