ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Introductoryly, I would like to tell you that the existing 2005 Law is good, solid, but here after 7 years it has shown some of its weaknesses, failures that we have tried to correct and correct by this amendment and supplementation. The law with a 10-ac affirmative and exclusively positive changes will improve and make it better. This led us to the current economic situation in the country, and for these changes and recognition of status and rights, no new material resources will be needed. We wanted to show how much to settle without a lot of money and how the dignity of the Homeland War doesn't always have to be measured in kunas. In particular, I point out that no defence law is diminished, especially not abolished, and at the same time I am particularly emphasising the law was done in active cooperation with the defenders, he has passed more consent with the defence population through consultations of members of the Council of Ministers and Associations of the Homeland War, the law was held on the Ministry's website, and two stands were held with defenders in Split and Požega and the draft was presented to the media. I'm going to list a few basic amendments and the additions to the laws contained in this proposal. More favourable conditions for a family pension for the years of widows of the dead Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War 1st and 2nd group who had been granted the right to pay for the assistance and care of the other person, strengthening the right to the employment of Croatian defence attorneys, Croatian wartime disabled and children killed by introducing new criminal sanctions for non-compliance with this right from 15 thousand kuna for an individual to as many as 300 thousand kuna for institutions and institutions. We have witnessed so far that the existing article of this law has been played in every way possible and we want to sharpen it and force responsible persons to comply with it even with these criminal provisions. One newspaper is the recognition of the right to provide housing to Croatian defenders volunteers of the fighting sector who have participated in the Homeland War for a long time, at least 2 years or 3 years, and this is for the first time also to enter this law because the most common observation was for all the laws so far that they were made exclusively for the victims of the Homeland War and that the defenders who did not suffer and who spent a long time in the armed forces are not there. The widows and extramarital wives of the dead Croatian defenders of the Homeland War are given the opportunity to conclude a new marriage or extramarital community without losing the rights acquired under the law, provided that after their death these rights cannot be inherited by a new mate or an extramarital partner or by their children. The newspaper is also a recognition of the right to supply the widows of Croatian military disabled in the event they are not granted the right to a family pension under the general pension regulation, or before the 50th year of life, and when they have no other sources of income. The status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War will be able to achieve a person who, in the appropriate procedure, has been established by arbitrary abandonment or abandonment of a unit without the permission of the competent commander if he again responds to mobilization or has voluntarily joined the Armed Forces and has completed the service with an honorable discharge. Of course, the status will only be recognised for that part of participation in the Homeland War. Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who died in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia will be considered historically significant persons and in the event that those persons do not have heirs to the cemetery of the local self-government unit will continue to maintain their graves. I would also like to point out that this proposal, after 20 years, has provided a good status solution for members of the National Protection Squad, which they first accepted, and then, through the address of the President of the Republic of Croatia to the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament, have complained that this proposal is not good and here I am still giving them the opportunity, I continue to say that unfortunately we cannot go to the recognition of the new status of Croatian defenders, and that this solution we have come up with and suggested that they satisfy the most of what they are talking about and want Croatia to thank them in a certain way for their participation in the Homeland War. And for the end of two perhaps not most important, but Croatia's public will be the most interesting provisions. First of all, we will announce to this law a zero solution to the monetary rights of persons who did not during the Homeland War were members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia or we will address the issue raised by members of the Croatian Council of Defense, first of all by removing the possibility of further proceedings and opening the assumption that, in cooperation with the State's attorney, we will approach the return procedures so far illegally acquired rights and with interest as they have received from us. Finally, the public availability of a list of Croatian defenders from the National War Register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War with full respect for the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act and the laws governing the secrecy of classified data. The registry is set up to strengthen the dignity of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and promote the value of the Homeland War as well as strengthen the honour and reputation of Croatian defenders and also collect data on all Croatian defenders in a unique record. The publication of the register will not undermine the safety of individuals or endangered national interests why we have received all the necessary consent and preservation of competent ministries, offices and agencies and this government will fulfill one of its pre-election promises of joy and pride to all the honorable and honest Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23231	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the board of the Croatian Parliament want? Yeah. Dear Representative Josip Djakic on behalf of the Committee on War Veterans.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23232	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to welcome my friends and comrades who are at the gallery. The Committee for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at its 7th session held on 27th November 2012 discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which has been submitted by the Government of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 21st November 2012. The Committee held the hearing as a parent body, in accordance with Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. According to the representatives of the proposer of the basic intensities of these amendments and the addition of the laws, the strengthening of the dignity of Croatian defenders and members of their families, the dignity of the Homeland War itself, the recognition of individual rights to groups of defenders and members of their families who have not so far had them, and meeting the needs and expectations of a large part of the public for public publication of the Croatian Defence Register. The proposed act lays down the right to provide housing for Croatian defenders who have participated for two or more years in the defense of sovereignty, to recognise the right of widows of Croatian wartime wartime wartimes on supplies when they are not granted the right to retire under the general rule. The obligation to maintain the grave posts of Croatian defenders who died in defence of sovereignty is prescribed for a zero solution on the monetary rights of non-members of the Armed Forces during the war, the right to priority in employment is strengthened and new criminal sanctions for non-compliance with these rights are introduced and the public availability of the list of Croatian defenders from the Defence Register is prescribed with respect to the data protection rules. The implementation of the rights under the proposed law will require the provision of financial resources of around 3.3 million kuna. The draft amending and supplementing the law passed a comprehensive public debate and public stands with interested individuals and associations. In the discussion, the members of the committee expressed the following opinions, the satisfaction was expressed by prescribing the new rights of certain groups of defenders and losers, the publication of the list of defenders, i.e. the register, and welcomes the increase in the funding for the exercise of the right in relation to the budget rebalancing of the fixed amount of funds in 2012. The second opinion is amendments and additions to the law are only done because of the publication of the Register of Croatian defenders, but they have not created assumptions for the publication of the register in the light of constitutional and legal provisions. The announcement will do enormous damage and the benefit of nothing. There will be court proceedings, the street will determine who is and who is not the Croatian defender. A security issue will also be opened for those Croatian defenders who live or travel abroad. So far, no country has published its lists of participants in the Homeland War or its wars. The register of those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who took part in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia should also be published if the register of defenders is published, and later they are upgraded. If the provisions on the publication of the register are accepted, an assessment of the constitutionality of the same will be requested. There are doubts as to the justification and legality of the provisions which allow the widows of the dead Croatian defenders of the Homeland War to retain their rights if they enter marriage or marriage communities, in the light of the provisions of the Family Law and of other regulations that each group is exercising pension rights. It is necessary to review the provision of Article 7 of the bill under which the widows of the dead Croatian wartime disabled from the Homeland War first and second groups with 100% organ damage allow the acquisition of the right to a family pension if they are 40 years old at the time of death for reasons they are privileged in relation to widows who are not entitled to do so under other regulations, and knowing that some of them are certainly and workable. The extension of the right to housing to defenders who have spent two or more years in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia will surely require additional funding which is not indicated in the light of the draft law on the necessary financial resources. Already, it is far too late to handle easier people with physical impairment of 20% or 30% and budget funds for this purpose from year to year are getting smaller and smaller. The issue of members of the National Protection should be resolved in a way that changes the provisions of the applicable law on at least 5 months implemented in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia by 24 December 1991 or the status of participants in the Homeland War. Some provisions of the current law stimulate the suicide of Croatian defenders to ensure pensions and disability to family members which should be avoided. After the discussion, the committee decided to propose a majority vote with 5 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention vote to the Croatian Assembly of Conclusions. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23233	Thank you, Your Honor. Whether or not the rapporteurs, no. We are now going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the SDP club of Croatia and the respected representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23234	Dear President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, respected Croatian defenders. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Although we will all agree that the existing Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers is good, after 7 years, the need for the practical completion of a particular problem concerning the defence population has been demonstrated, and without a breakthrough of the existing budget. We are also guided by the opinion that the Defence Registry, the publication of the Defence Register, is a pre-election promise from the Government and will be made possible by these amendments and amendments at the end and will enable it to be published. That's what this government has a right to do, and it's the right to win the election. This promise was made because there is a legitimate need and the expectation of a large part of the public to publicly publish a list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Other than experts from the Ministry of Defence and representatives of the police sector, defence, judiciary, administration, and the section relating to the publication of the register has been regulated following consultations with the Personal Data Protection Agency. The basic issues that these amendments and additions of the laws want to be settled are more favourable conditions for family retirement for the years of the widows of the dead HRVI from the Homeland War, the recognition of the right to death to pay for the assistance and care of another person, the strengthening of the right to take advantage of the employment and the introduction of new criminal sanctions for non-compliance with this right, the recognition of the right to care for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War for a long time to participate in the Homeland War, the recognition of the right to supply to the widows of the Homeland War in case they are not granted the right to a family pension under the general pension rules, the requirement to maintain the graves of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who died in the defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, advertising of zero solutions on monetary rights of persons who were not members of the Croatian Armed Forces during the Homeland War. I must say, despite the impression that these amendments and amendments to the law are only being passed for the purpose of enabling the publication of the Defence Register, there is indeed a lot of newspapers beneath that surface that are focused on the specific problems of the narrow groups. If we agree, and I believe that we want to discuss the fact that the current law and in practice has proved good and applicable, these changes are affecting the target because they remove some ambiguities and failures that the legislator did not see at the time of the law's adoption. I think these changes really contain improvements to the existing law. Regardless of some recommendations, even the resistance caused by the introduction of the possibility of a new marriage community while maintaining acquired rights under the law, which is the right to refer to widows, the extramarital wives of the deadly Croatian defenders, I must say that I welcome this possibility because I hold that this is a matter in the first place of the achieved civilizational development. I also welcome the fact that the right is intolerable to a new mate, or to their common children. Furthermore, I believe that indeed everyone has the right to make mistakes on condition that he is responsible for his actions and that this mistake is not such a type that it is practically irreparable. If one of the defenders, under difficult circumstances, endangers their own life or family under severe psychological, physical burdens, wronged the rules of war that are respected in the military, so he was indeed disgracefully fired from the Croatian Army, but later, in the follow-up of war operations, joined forces and fought honorably, there is no reason for this defender not to be granted the right to this honorable, proper part of the war route. These changes, indeed, want to respect the dignity of the Croatian defenders, introduce and the notion of a historically significant person into the law, which will apply to Croatian defenders who have died in the defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the event that those persons do not have an heir. It is the obligation of the owner of the cemetery, i.e. the local self-government unit, to continue the maintenance of their graves. Unlike the current Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, these amendments and additions to the law have for the first time recognised and addressed the rights of those who have participated in the war for 2 and more years without being killed in any way. This group of defenders will have no disability, no money rights, but a right to housing, which is a step away because they have not even been mentioned in the law so far. It is a matter of volunteers who have spent many years in the war and these changes will evaluate their participation in the defense of the homeland. The right to an increased family disability for children killed and imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War without parental care can also be welcomed. Unfortunately, I have to point out that no adequate legal solutions have been found to regulate the status of members of the former people's protection. In fact, the existing law damages all those who cannot achieve the status of defenders because they have less than five months of training in protection. The fact is, no one could have collected more than four months and three weeks. That's the problem because these people were at home in the weather, even buying their own weapons and equipment. Under the difficult circumstances of the beginning of the war at a time when the Yugoslav army of occupation was still in our cities when there were no clear lines of the front, they risked their lives helping citizens, and we unfortunately haven't said a single thank you. It is certainly an injustice to these people, and I call on both the Minister and the Ministry to find a way to recognise the status of participation in the war as soon as possible. Although I do know that all Croatian defenders are registered in the register, and thus the missing Croatian defenders, I call on the minister with a proposal that these people should be particularly highlighted, i.e. to form a special register of dead and missing Croatian defenders and publicly published. I don't mean by interest, I mean a publication that would be representative. In this way we would show special respect for the victim of those who are most worthy of what... Besides the ones I've singled out, there's a whole series of improvements, but that's more said by the promoter himself, and for those improvements, I also think they should be supported. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the very end, what causes the most storm in the public, which is the legal regulation and the creation of legal assumptions for the publication of Croatian defenders' registers from the Homeland War. The history of the establishment of the register and the reasons why it came to us. When sharing shares of the fund, it was necessary to record all defenders in one place and then calculate their shares clearly. That's when they... collected from the MUP, the MORH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, the result of that for one and the other, I'd say it's bad. The registry certainly should have been better and more precise, and the calculation was fairer, so it would not have happened that the people who participated for example in the action Maslenica had one point for the day of the war. But let's let it go because these are things we can't, unfortunately, change anymore today. To date, it is not clear that it is a non-combating sector in war and for what purposes it is formed for. That's exactly what I'm talking about. the non-combating sector that does not exist in any country that has gone through war is in one part of the stumbling block. What is not fully clear is also the number of Croatian defenders registered in the register, which is 501 thousand 666. The number from the moment it was announced to the Croatian public is causing recommendations both among the defenders and associations themselves, as well as among ordinary citizens. In addition, until two years ago, it was possible to prove defence status with the help of two witnesses. So, since '96. until two years ago. I have a point of view that in the war either you were or you weren't, there's no combat and non-combat counsel. All the defenders are combative. There is no subsequent proof of status with two witnesses, because with all these manipulations there is room for key manipulation, which is relativating participation in the war... Hence, the need and interest for the public availability of such data is understandable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Respecting the public's great interest and the pre-election promise of the new government, it is now in the creation of a precondition for the publication of a single register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Prior to the publication of the register, consultations were carried out with the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, Security Agency, MUP and MORH. The minister also pointed out on several occasions that the publication of the register will respect the provisions of the Data Protection Act as well as the Data Privacy Act. The register is scheduled to be published through a general and special section. In the general section there will be data on the defender, name, last name, parent name, date, place of birth, sex, place of residence, home address, status of Croatian defender or Croatian defender – volunteer from the Homeland War, total number of days of participation in the Homeland War, membership of the fighting or non-combat sector, membership of the MORH or MUP. In a special section there will be data on the Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the name of the unit that belonged during the Homeland War and the period of participation in the Homeland War. Based on the amendments to the laws proposed by the public will be made available in electronic form to the personal data of the defender, name, name of one parent, date and place of birth, total period of participation in the Homeland War, belonging to the combat or non-combat sector shown by number of days, belonging to the MUP or the MORH. This information will not be compromised and all data will be available only with the express written consent of the defender certified by the public notary, i.e. in the case of the dead or missing Croatian defenders, with the express consent of the nearest relatives of the first succession order. And the final question remains whether the publication of the register will cause new indictments against Croatian defenders. I'm sure he won't do it for a few reasons. The first is because the Homeland War was just, defensive and imposed on Croatia. Secondly, I am sure that the vast majority of Croatian defenders have fought against all conventions, codes and customs of war. And thirdly, Croatia itself has over the years been able to process and process the individuals who have sinned in the rules of war. I think it's clear to all of us that these people would unfortunately have a problem without registering the register and it's not the register on the basis of which investigations are launched to raise or arrest warrants. On the other hand, the fact that the non-publishment of the register did not save, for example, Croatian defender Purda from arrest. What helped then were the facts that contributed to his innocence and the RS system and the then prime minister and government's position. I firmly believe that the Republic of Croatia system is a legal state and its apparatus capable of protecting the innocent and those who created it and punishing the perpetrators of acts that no one is honored. I also believe in the power of our diplomacy, however weak it is, but I believe in its power, in the protection of all Croatian citizens, especially Croatian defenders throughout the world. After all, it is the foundation of the state for which we all fought together. The SDP club will support the amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23235	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We've reported several replicas, so we'll do it in a row. The first replica and respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23236	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Vidic, I just wanted to supplement you when you talk about extending your right to volunteers who were two and more years old for housing. I would welcome that initiative, that praiseworthy text that is in the legal proposal if it wasn't, that it's not about 30 to 40,000 people for whom there are no financial opportunities. And if it weren't for the 13th and some thousand Croatian military disableds waiting for housing, then I would agree that this is a clear real commitment of the ministry as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia to protect and encourage the dignity of Croatian defenders and volunteers. This way, without financial justification, you can't talk about reality, but a dead letter on paper, a demagogue flossula that certainly deceives that someone will exercise some rights for which they have no means. Also, National Protection has turned the people of those who were in the Homeland War of National Protection into troops of the MUP and the MORH they have achieved their status. Those who are not, some have died and have no status today, and I should have regulated it with certain legal provisions, and it is not because it requires material resources that should be secured in the budget if they are recognised as National Protection, they should also have further rights arising from the law. And what you are talking about about is the Croatian Defence Register and that security will be guaranteed I must warn you that you are not looking again, you do not understand and follow the policy of the neighbouring Republic of Serbia whose attorney general announces the launch of investigative and investigative actions for all operations, and especially for those who were "Blash", "Summer", "Storm", "Maestral", "Little Alan", "Maslenica" and more. That's where you'll find a good piece of these from the register.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23237	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23238	Thank you, Mr. President. So, first of all, as far as housing is concerned, we have unfortunately had a situation that a good part of housing has been transferred to local self-government units with co-financing from the ministry... Yes, units of local self-government have allocated land, except for the apartments that were built, we are talking about the current problem, except the apartments that were built, so local self-government units have also allocated land and the ministry has co-financed interest, etc. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I believe that the current minister will also manage to find room for redistribution in the budget, that he will also find space for these rights as defenders. As for the People's Protection, and listen to the war, it's been, like, 17 years, and this whole time, their status is not regulated, unfortunately. I advocate that their status is regulated and I think that regardless of material rights or anything that comes from it that people simply if they were involved in the war, which they are, they have the right to be admitted to it. The third is the policy of the Republic of Serbia. And what can I tell you about that? So, I'm not very interested in the politics of the Republic of Serbia, I'm interested in Croatian defenders. I believe that Croatian diplomacy can really protect Croatian defenders. It's not like you're just making an arrest in a foreign state. That's not exactly how it works, you know that as well as I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23239	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23240	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Vidovic, among other things, pointed out on behalf of the SDP club that most of the public, the Croatian public, is of course seeking the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. It is my opinion that there is no relevant evidence that this is the case. In order to claim that most of the Croatian public is seeking the publication of the register, then at the very least we would have to carry out a referendum before then, and then the citizens in the referendum would have declared themselves and then you could claim that most of the Croatian public is seeking the publication of the register. Or if not, it certainly had to be a kind of referendum or a plea among those on the register, meaning among Croatian defenders. So there is no other research, and it is certainly about certain demands that come from Croatian politics and some media, but also, of course, with the support of some defense associations. But that most of the Croatian public is seeking the publication of the register has no relevant evidence. And about one claim that you have made that the implementation, or new provisions of this law, will not require and do not seek substantial financial resources, of course you cannot claim it either because you have no proof of it. Namely, this new right to be introduced, I always welcome every right for the Croatian defender, especially volunteers, but that the ministry, or the promoter or government, did not actually calculate how much of the funds in the following year, only in the following year would it require proof if you look at the law where the appraisal of the necessary funds is made. So, the calculation of this new right does not exist, and I'm saying there are no insurance funds for next year, but also for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23241	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23242	Thank you. So, dear Madam MPs, you're polymizing with me in a way that my opinion is that it wants most of the Croatian public to be published, and it's your opinion that it doesn't. Okay, but that's our election promise. With that election promise, we went to the elections, we got legitimacy in the elections, and we have the right to do it eventually. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23243	I'd like a parliamentary performance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23244	Well, I have the right to claim whatever I want. And secondly, as far as this second section is concerned, I believe in the reasons of the ministry, and if the minister says the funds have been secured as far as I'm concerned, the funds have been secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23245	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Tomislav Ivić and the third replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vidovic, in your debate on behalf of the club, you said so much inaccuracy to show that you don't know too much about this problem, which is not weird. The government's pre-election promise, it's not a pre-election promise from the government, it's a pre-election promise to the Kukurik coalition. So, the Kukuriku coalition, not the government, promised to publish the register. Then you claim that the register is bad. Not true, the register is precise, accurate, the way it should be and the way it was only possible to make it. It does not explain what is non-combat and what is the fighting sector. It is very clear that it is a non-combat sector. The non-combat sector is all those members of the Homeland War who did not directly participate in combat operations, but were in the post of defence of the country with two witnesses so that status could be regulated. That's not true, that's how the Partisans reacted to their status. The status of the defender could subsequently be regulated through the administrative procedure and it is clear what the administrative procedure means. And the claim that housing was mainly carried out by local self-government units. Where did you get that? Well, the local self-government was never more involved in solving this problem than the state did. The fact is that in individual cases local self-government was involved, but 99% of the work was done by the state. And the claim that you don't need to implement housing is absolutely incorrect. We're just going to see how much money it's gonna take to solve this problem because the right is going to get at least 45 thousand people, and so far, about 35,000 people have been solved and about 16 billion kuna spent on this whole job. So then you can figure out what this job is going to cost the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23247	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23248	Thank you, Your Honor. As for the pre-election promise, we stand behind it and the end of the story. But don't forget, it's the Kukurik coalition that formed the government. So I didn't do anything wrong. As for the combat and non-combat sectors here, believe me, I spent some time in the war I never met any non-combat defenders. At least they don't exist, I'm sorry, but they don't exist. I only know about the combat defenders at least the people I was with were combat defenders. And thirdly, as far as local self-government is concerned, local self-government is involved in one part of it, the ministry is the one that solved the key problem of housing that is true and I don't doubt it but local self-government is included in one part. I just want to point out that there's a problem in that part too because simply local self-government doesn't have enough building land to give to the defenders. And I think you'll agree with me here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23249	Thank you very much. Both the 4th Replic and the esteemed representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23250	Your Honor, Mr. President. I would do this in another way, sir, you said most of the Croatian public expected this to be published. I'm replicating, not expecting, most of the Croatian public to publish this, but let's put it aside. Let's just say she's expecting it. What is the meaning of your pre-election promise, and what is the purpose of the publication of the Defence Register? We now have to ask ourselves this question as the Croatian public and as the Croatian Parliament. There's always something that's negative that has a negative connotation in it. You didn't publish 7 days or 15 days ago a list of debtors who didn't pay the tax, so you've always published something that's bad. So this is a negative connotation to put Croatian defenders on a pillar of shame and this is actually the crown proof of the misery of Croatian political thought, this is the crown proof of the Croatian self-destruction drive for self-destruction and for just always working for other people's interests to benefit from either the stupidity and the lack of intellectual potentials on the Croatian state line. So there is no dilemma here I publicly tell you that there are fake Croatian defenders. I've had objections to the proceedings through the former governments why after 15 years they recognize and seek some disability, etc., but that's not the problem. The false defender is getting a list and we're going to take one by one and we're taking down the false defenders, but the announcement has a connotation of putting on a pillar of shame. I demand that all members of the former intelligence services from the former state be announced, I demand that members of the Partizan units who are still receiving pensions be announced, I demand that the members of the 30,000 members of the fascist Italian occupation army be retired in Croatia, I demand that they be published. Because where does it prove to me that someone who receives pensions... /The speaker is off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23251	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you very much. Agent, please respect the rest of us who want to talk. I'm begging you. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23252	Thank you very much. My esteemed colleague, look, I took part in the Homeland War. I wasn't all the time because I studied, but I participated from '91 until the truce was reached by 1.2.92. of 13.7. Practically '91. I don't doubt and I don't see what's negative in being proud of it, I'm really proud of that fact, I'm proud of defending my country and you can't tell me that anyone puts on a pillar of shame because... I'm really telling you again proud of me for defending my country and for having the honour of defending my country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it, I'm not gonna do you any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23253	Thank you very much. We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Now it's up to the IDS club and the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23254	Mr. President, Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. This is good law. A little step but it's still a step for the better and we have to admit it. To paraphrasise Armstrong this may not be a big step for humanity, maybe it's not a big step for the government or this House, but it's a step for the defense population, and we just have to admit it. And what makes me happy is this explanation that's written here and that's Mr. Matic's words, and that's fair. He said that this is what he said to all the former ministers and those who led the ministries that they had simply put forth a lot of effort or willingness to help the defence population, and that is simply the truth. And that there's room for improvement there's no need to doubt that. And it's good for every government to take at least one small step forward. And it is good that each government respects the defender's contribution and then agrees through these legal solutions a mosaic in valorising their contribution to the creation of the Croatian state. The truth is, Mr. Djakic, it's my fault that what little or this few surviving NOB fighters can't get on their own. They all supported this coalition or this government as one, but it doesn't matter now. They've also given everything in defense of these areas at some other time, from Nazis, fascists, domestic collaborationists, Ustashas, Chetniks, and can't be recognized, but now it's not the subject of this law. I guess it'll be the same one one day in a row. What regulates this law? So the basic issues that the law settles are more favourable conditions for family retirement regarding the years of widows of the dead HRVI from the Homeland War 1st and 2nd, strengthening the right to advantage from employment, recognising the right to care for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, recognising the right to supply Croatian widows from the Homeland War, prescribing the obligation to maintain graves of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who died, advertising to a zero solution to the monetary rights of persons who were not members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War, which is probably fine as well. The consequences of the law are the following: public availability of the list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War from the Croatian Defence Register. The status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War will also be possible for a person who, in an appropriate procedure or who has been determined to leave or leave the unit without the permission of the competent commander for the period of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia which is not covered by a judicial verdict. Widows of dead HRVIs with 100% damage to the first organism, other groups will achieve better existential safety. In the application of the provisions on the right to priority in employment, employers will be obliged to make sure that candidates with whom they have not concluded contracts on the work of the contract notice. The right to housing will also be achieved by volunteers, members of the fighting sector who did not even gain HRVI status in the Homeland War, and they spent two years seems to me. The CROMAC also provides for the subsidisation of interest rates. Widows who have died from the Homeland War who are not employed for a period of 45 to 50 years cannot be entitled to a family pension under the general pension rules, and are under difficult economic conditions, will be allowed to exercise the right to supply. Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who died in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia will be considered historically important persons and in the event that these persons do not have successors, then units of local self-government will continue to maintain their graves and widows of the extramarital wife of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, they are given the opportunity to enter into a new marriage or extramarital community without losing the rights acquired under the law. This is what regulates this law and if it is in that mosaic the rights of Croatian defenders is not a small contribution I do not know what it is. So that law kind of spreads those existing rights. The Ministry of Defence, as well as that of the Ministry of Pension Insurance or as it is called, and so on, Professor Mršić, means for the implementation of this law one and the other ministries at the annual level provide cca 6 billion kuna, the Ministry of Mr Matic a billion kuna and Mršić's ministry 4.8 billion kuna. It's huge money. Clearly everything in this country can be left behind, this money needs to be secured by the state. However, we need to be fair to ourselves, that the burden that Croatia has has does not have other European countries, they do not have those that entered in those past circles or in those circles of enlargement of the European Union entered Europe. One Czech Republic, one Slovakia, one Hungary, one Slovenia, one Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia, Romania, Bulgaria, they have no costs. In 17 years for these purposes, Croatia has certainly singled out only for the care of defenders at least one budget and this is not questionable and that money should be provided but I would like to say that other European countries do not have or do not bear that burden. So Milosevic's aggression not only occupied 1/3 of Croatia, it did not only destroy a whole series of cities from Vukovar, but it did not destroy one good part of our industry, but it permanently committed Croatian authorities or citizens or taxpayers, meaning on the one hand and to worry about the most deserved population of the Croatian society for the creation of the Republic of Croatia, but also on the reconstruction of the country, to the restoration of industry and all other costs. In one word, if a man is looking at this war damage, the cost of financing the war when the salaries were 150 marks, pensions 70, 80 or 100 marks, when we look at all these killings that this people had to go through, arson, the economy was destroyed, this permanent right, so we can say freely that Croatia lost in those 22 years maybe every third budget. Feel free to say, even that could be explicitly calculated. And there's no authority, let's be honest, who didn't take care of the defenders. No government, no ministry, and it doesn't matter if it was Mrs Kosor, Mr Ivić, Matic or any other minister. Everyone gave as much as they could to take care of that population. But that Croatia, but if Croatia had not worn, I would say with the burden of this aggression, I dare say that they might have lived twice as well. I dare say, I don't know, I dare say. All in all, I'm not gonna talk about those institutes again. But I will say that, in my court, there is a step forward and this publication is a register. And why not? Let's publish, let's publish everything. And how many partisans he gets I don't know that under quotes he's privileged pension and how many Ustashas and the natives he's getting, too. There's 40 of them, and there's about 30,000 of them in that pension system somewhere. Let's put it all out. We announce how many Italian pensions Mr. Marasovic was talking about are coming to Croatia, from Istria via Rijeka to Zadar to your Split. Let's put it all out. I don't think anyone should be against it. Why keep a secret? So the land, as the proverb says, swore to heaven that all secrets should be known, so let it be known. Why not? No one will, I'd say this is why the next day will be held at the border and so forth. I believe that. The verdict in The Hague is also unequivocal. She says Croatia had the right to defend itself. Okay, they shouldn't have told us that. The Homeland War was liberating. They shouldn't have told us that either. We know that. Storm is not a criminal enterprise. Well, we know that without The Hague. Cash and the Markach who's been sitting up there with us in that conference since '95. They're innocent until 2000. We knew that before they went there. And those who committed a possible crime, let's say after "Storm" on our part should answer, as God should answer to those who have burned and burned in Croatia since '91, destroyed Vukovar, are responsible for Skabrna, etc. etc. I agree with Mr. Ivic when he said that this law cost and that this law will include at least tens of thousands more people, but even though certain monetary values are given here, I think it will ultimately need to be provided with additional funds. Clearly, generals should also be compensated for their imprisonment in The Hague because of an unfounded indictment of Carla Del Ponte. Of course, it can't be regulated by this law. There's some other law to be passed. When we were in that Parliament's assembly of '95. By 2000, when it was, I don't know, '96, '97. voted in favour of that Co-operation Act with The Hague, for the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with The Hague Court simply left or we did not notice or perhaps we talked about it, but we did not when we voted that issue apostrophe. What is certainly very important to us in Istria when the minister arrives we will introduce him to this defense population living on the Valovinas in Pula. I think it's necessary to sort out their own housing status in some way. What is good that has been done, although a little, may offend me but this is the term used to give widows and extramarital wives of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War the opportunity to make a new marriage union. What the government, what Parliament, what the ministry has to give the right to conclude marriage. I guess it's a personal sanctity or a personal right, whatever we call it, and it just can't be touched. And clearly, they must retain all the material rights that enable them, existing legal solutions. And what Mr. Djakic was also talking about, and that may be the most painful thing after the Homeland War, it's suicide, it's almost one brigade that we've lost these honorable boys, young men, girls, it doesn't matter, these honest people. As far as Serbia and their indictments are concerned, I think we'll be easy to deal with, I'm not afraid of it. They should be more afraid of Croatian justice. Amnesty is at work, war crime is clearly not outdated, it should be prosecuted to the end. But some countries are working on it. Croatia and Serbia certainly today have neither ideal nor political, nor diplomatic relations. That's not good. The economy sees how it cooperates, relatively correct and well. We're headed for each other. It's a necessity. I need to trade, I need to live, I need to work, I don't know how to survive years ahead of us. Here, recently in this interview with whom, I suppose, "Kurru" in Serbia, General Gotovina himself called for the return of the refugee population from the space of the Krajina words, so that's your country as well as mine. Come back, come back. I say no one enjoys the war. I don't enjoy it, he says, in the war. The war is behind us. The consequences of the war are still ahead of us, but since that war, it's been 17 years. And for the end. I think all of us when it comes to this law are actually talking the same and we all want the same and we all want the best. And that one good initiative should be muddyed, abused, and in advance corrupt in some way. And I agree, as Mr. Marasovic says, let everything be published. The country of paradise swore that every secret would be revealed so we could see why other categories of citizens wouldn't be published through one of these lists, I don't know those categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23255	Thank you, Your Honor. There's some replicas reported to your presentation, so we'll go in order. The first replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23256	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, my colleague Cain, I would agree with you that these proposals for amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers would be a step towards improving and raising the defence population as well as their care and lasting concerns that the country is Croatia and indebted to them, but when the funds are not secured, when the posts of the ministry are reduced, when the budget is reduced to 140 million then the current budget is reduced to the positions of the Ministry of Defence, so it says that within the Ministry of Defence funds planned in 2013 are reduced by 40 million kuna or 3.4% less than planned this year. The largest reduction of €28 million is in the position of permanent rights, then the funds for the employment of € 4.6 million, at the position of participants and victims of World War II 4.2 million or 2.2%, the association of defenders 2.3 million. In the Ministry of Labour and Pension Insurance, there is also a 4 million and 833,000 reduction, down from 47 million kuna or 1%. The peace of NOR fighters for 37 million kunas and so on in your own population that you represent and say that NOR fighters will never come on their own. So they will not come to theirs when we do not know who the heirs and the legal followers of their pensions are, and 38 thousand still exercise the right. So many more victims of war and nobs we don't know who they are or what they are. I would agree with you that there will certainly be no indictments and that the Office of Croatian Defence who will be publicly announced will not cause new warrants. We saw the example of the 50s when Shakespeare was among them, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare as well as everyone else who found them. The announcement of Nikolic and Nikolic's reply to a commendable general's call for all those who have left Croatia to return to which Croatia's homeland has encountered threats, and Serbia's lawyer is ordering all of you to be processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23257	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23258	Mr. Djakic, we don't give Shaks to anyone! Here's the last time I went to President Josipovic's house seven days ago and he tells me you know that Gotovina's father was in Partisans? Well, you can see that an officer and a gentleman have these very roots. Therefore, the gentlemen and the NOR fighters have very much in charge of these Croatian spaces and that is all I am going to say. If it costs anything, it costs to enforce this law. The funds need to be provided, if it doesn't go differently, we'll have rebalancing, but what we're going to vote on today will certainly be given to citizens, widows, others, defenders in one word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23259	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23260	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain said that the publication of this register is a step forward, so let everything be published. The bill promoter says it is aimed at the dignity of defenders and the Homeland War. However, to thank for that same logic and we would be obliged to publish all those units that were on the ground of Croatia and help Croatia. From UNPROFOR, from SFOR, NATO troops, observers of the European Community, etc. The very thought of it would be, only asking for it to be done Croatia would face major problems if such a list were published. What does that tell us? It tells us that this law is an exception without a rule. Just because the exception is justified means mistrust, mistrust with the register, mistrust with the defenders, mistrust with the government or the ministries that created the registry. And that is why he is causing these very other demands to be made public by fellow Caine all others who are amnesty, from the composition of JNA's troops, from the troops of the rebel Serbs, from all other units. There are no mention of the pensions of JNA paid by Croatia in the light of the principle of solidarity for members of JNA because these funds have been paid into federal funds, and this has not been settled yet. Therefore, if this is to be legalised, then it must be legalised not as an exception but as a request and a rule for everyone else to register.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23261	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23262	I repeat, I have not noticed that it is controversial for real defenders to publish this Defence Registry. What is not good, however, is that we permanently politicise about the publication of the register, to bribe and to deceive the Croatian public. Let us announce all these units, from UNPROFOR further, and your father, Mr. Tudjman, who led the defence of the Republic of Croatia, has often decorated senior officials or how I will call them officers or does not matter the elders or UNPROFOR officers or some of those other international units. On the one hand, you should always keep in mind amnesty, not touching people. We can publish everything, always sanction war crimes. ... If we can't by international law, then we'll [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23263	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zvonko Milas. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23264	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear defenders of friends, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's Mr. Caine, I think the same way you do that in this House and I think there's no one in the entire nation who has something against Croatian defenders, against those who have therefore created this country. But in order to do something over and over again, nothing came about as a set of good wishes, it all came from the laws of some regulations, and we must continue to respect those regulations. So let's just say you're talking about widows having the right to marry to uphold rights, etc. You haven't asked those same ones who will be the ultimate users whether they are for it, whether they want it, and all of it comes from it. So the draft of my law says that "marriage and extramarital mate" article 6 "by entering marriage or an extramarital community does not lose the rights under this law". Widows aren't up for it. Why? Because it's illegal and unconstitutional. 20 laws previously amended and resolved since the '92 decree that the family invalidity is the basis of all rights therefore derived from them. And yet in 2001 it is prescribed that a family disability is a substitute for losing a mate whether a wife or a wife. And by the time someone enters another marriage, he loses the right to a family disability so the new marriage is a substitute he has a new family, so new care is created, a new community and a family disability disappears. So you can't keep the property because whoever doesn't have a family disability can't even have a pension. I'm not against it, the solution can be found but we have to obey the laws and we have to legally simply implement everything that's been given here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23265	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23266	What I'm about to say may sound like black humor. I can't find anyone's husband and wife, but let's not touch that elemental human right that a man can make a marriage. If something is not properly settled by law, let us change these legal standards. Here's the deal, so it'll all be settled. So how won't it be? Well, we can't just defend people from ending their marriage. Let's not appeal to absurd legal norms, if that exists, we'll just change that. And so I say once again, this law probably isn't some big contribution to humanity, I said, maybe it's not a big contribution to us this generation of MPs, to the government, for a generation of ministers, but it's certainly a small step in putting this mosaic together with a solution to the status of the defence population. Let’s not simply question everything someone suggests. This is still a small step in that direction and it should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23267	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a colleague, Cain, said that all governments so far have cared equally for and equally cared for Croatian defenders and members of their families. I disagree with that thesis, I think I can say it competently because I was the defence minister from the end of 2003 to mid-2009. I'll tell you only the data that speaks about the budget at the end of 2003 for Croatian defenders amounted to a billion 600 million kuna, and at the end of 2011. Six billion. I remind you because you were a legislator of the 2001 law has drastically reduced the rights of Croatian defenders and I remind you of the average of 100% people with disabilities who came here to the assembly because the reduced rights of that law were not until the end of the meeting. The defenders and members of their families, of course, sued the state, and as defence minister, I had to ensure, together with my colleagues, my first term of office, my billion-and-a-half from the state budget that we paid to Croatian defenders and members of their families who sued for failing to comply with the rights of Croatian defenders. So that's the data, that's the facts that clearly prove it. Worry wasn't always the same at the same level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23269	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23270	Mrs. Kosor, I think you've been a good Croatian defense minister, and here I am going to do it one more time. Yeah, you've tried your best. You've been a good Croatian defense minister. And I certainly don't mind because I probably raised my hand too, I didn't raise my hand for budget sizes while HDZ was in power never, but in that term it reduced the 10% defence population. But it is, it is, it is. But now that we're talking about some sizes as much as it was in 2003, as it was in 2009, so we have to keep in mind the following. In 2003, the budget amounted to about 80 billion kuna. In 2006 or fifth, it was 100 billion kuna. In 2009, it seemed to me like 108 billion kuna. 2012 was slightly lower, etc. It's that revenue side. And as far as disabled people are concerned, I'm always on principle, we can cut anyone off, but I always swear more to a disabled person, always swear more. And once again I'm going to say, every government in line with the country's material capabilities at some point took care of the defence population. And for the third time, I personally consider you to be a good Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23271	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23272	... Thank you, Mr. President. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] My colleague Caine, you said that serious states don't need to be saved on defenders, and I think we can all agree on that in principle. But it's also true that serious states don't publish the defense register. So add Washington Memorial to World War II or Vietnam War and go to Paris you will naturally have a memorial list of those fallen for your country and that's fine. But you won't find a list of those who fought for their country. Why? For national security reasons, not to endanger national security. Serious states and serious governments do not endanger national security and therefore do not publish, at least not in this way, the registry of defenders or members of the Armed Forces who participated in wars, in armed conflicts. It is naive to think that this will not be misused, not of course by those who have the same opinion that the Homeland War was just, liberating. Unfortunately, read what is happening in Belgrade, you will see that a different policy is being conducted there, and it is truly naive to think that there will be no politically motivated warrants, and therefore one appeal, let us not endanger the national security and security of those people who honorably defended the Republic of Croatia. You want to publish something, there are false defenders, so delete them. You're publishing that list of fakes, but let's not endanger national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23273	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23274	Serious countries need to be clearly saved but they should never be saved on disabled people, and here I think we all share the same opinion. Yes, I was in Washington, Paris, and I know what these memorial centers look like, and I agree that the serious states may not publish the lists of their members participating in the defense of their country. However, where the problem is in the Republic of Croatia, which all of us sitting here, which everyone who participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia knows that the number of 500,000 defenders is not a real figure. I listened a few days ago to Minister Matic, he says, and 350,000 is a tight number. So, I'm always for principle like you, Mr. Representative, take the fake, give it real. But that's why I believe, among other things, that they would resolve that misunderstanding or that injustice against the real defenders that it would be necessary to publish the Defense Registry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23275	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23276	... Two things they were talking about, said Dr. Tudjman and Mr. Stier, so I'm not going to repeat them, but we obviously want to be more Catholic than the Pope publishing this Defence Register and Mr. Stier told you and I was on the verge that no serious state had published its defence register. [[Specially enabled.]] On the other hand, you said that the burden that the Croatian state has on defence obligations does not have other countries probably in our environment, you probably meant that. But defenders and their rights are not a burden to this country and should not be a burden to this country, that is the price of freedom. It's the price of what you and I are enjoying today, you Assembly pension, I'm paying for it. That's what they've provided for all of us today. If it weren't for that question, would you and I and anyone else be sitting in this House? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23277	And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23278	Where I said that they are a burden, that the defence population is a burden of budget or burden of the Croatian state. However, the defence population is the government's obligation, this House, to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and it is simply not questionable. But don't impute to me that I called them a burden, because that's certainly how no one could have understood my debate at the pay phone. And I'd say something else, let's not politicize, let's not plant, let's not deceive one word. No one has said that they are a burden, however they are a liability because the note bene has created this Croatian state as this state should also have an obligation to those honorable fighters of the People's Liberation War who have integrated both Istria and one Zadar and Rijeka and the islands in a territorial and legal order, and that is, in a similar word, the borders that this generation of defenders have created in the period of '91. '95. defenses.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23279	Thank you very much. And the next replica and respected representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23280	Mr. President. Dear colleague Cain, with the most important part of your debate, I fully agree, but I do not agree with your findings where you said that the International Criminal Court in The Hague should not have told us what we in the Republic of Croatia knew for certain that the action of Storm and other actions in the Homeland War were not aggressive, they were defensive but in any case needed that the International Criminal Court, which Croatia supported and which measured international justice, gave such qualifications to the Republic of Croatia, enables Croatian defenders a safer and more quality future. Therefore, my conclusion is that it was good and that what we all knew in the Republic of Croatia was true, that now the International Criminal Court said that the Liberation Action of the Storm was defensive and that it was quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23281	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23282	There aren't many of us in this assembly who voted for the Constitutional Law in co-operation with the Hague Court. I know, I remember very well what the atmosphere was like back then, Mr. Shakespeare, Mrs. Kosor, Damir Caine, I don't know who's on the other side, Mrs. Zgrebec, etc. And ultimately, I'm really sorry that politics, that one time the government forbade Mr. Gotovina to give that interview to the Hague investigators because it could probably have been different. But I'll do it one more time. This verdict of The Hague Court at the end, and I believe both Mr Gotovina and Markac, who sat with us in this House of '95. It is necessary to compensate by 2000. But that verdict in The Hague is unequivocal. Homeland War I said it was liberating. A brutal aggression was committed in Croatia. Croatia had the right to self-defense. Storm is not a criminal enterprise, and the generals who were there are innocent. Therefore, regardless of all this Hague has in some way and in that legal sense closed one page of our new age history, and so much so, no matter what the first degree judgment and earthquakes and insults us both as people and as a nation are in the end, I will say, they came to ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23283	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23284	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you said today in your debate that you welcome this Act as a government effort to ensure a better life for Croatian citizens. We also heard today in the debate that this is an important pre-election promise that needs to be fulfilled. Well, here's how much memory serves me, I remember one for me, perhaps a more important pre-election promise to the Kukurik coalition that should contribute to a better life of Croatian citizens, and it said about this: in a plus three salary, not a minus to be paid. Today, not that Croatian citizens are in plus three salaries, but they no longer have a minus because they have no salaries. And this applies most to Croatian defenders. And this story about Croatian defenders and the defence registry is obvious to have deliberately thrown bone into the defence population, which is clearly estimated to have nothing to do but sit at home in front of computers and single out the names of those suspected of not being on that list. It's the only truth from my colleague Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23285	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23286	Well said, I didn't notice. That promise means plus three salaries, not minus three salaries. And yes, I agree with you. A far more important promise, for example, for GDP growth of 0.8% in the first year of office, not -1.1%. And a far more serious promise of growth this year, which is ahead of us of 1.8%. But you can't tell me that these solutions from this Act, more favourable conditions for a family pension regarding the age of an old woman, a widow of a dead Croatian military invalid. Strengthening the right to take advantage of employment and the introduction of new criminal sanctions for non-compliance with this right, the recognition of the right to housing of Croatian defenders, the recognition of the right to supply the widows of the Croatian military disabled, the prescribing of the obligation to maintain the grave posts of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. I've got another minute. The widows of the dead Croatian military disabled with 100% damaged organisms will achieve better existential security by introducing the right to a family pension, the application of the law on priority in employment will be mandatory for employers who have not concluded contracts for the work of the contract notice. The right to housing will be granted by volunteers, members of the fighting sector who have not gained the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid. I hope those of mine down from Pula, Valovina, come under this condition of this legal solution, etc. etc. So no one can say that it's not a contribution to the defence population, to those that this country has to take priority care of at this point, especially if it's about disabled people. And if the funds are not enough and the amount of what we're going to vote through the rebalancing is what they need to find.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23287	Thank you very much. We've finished the replicas and the answer to the replica. Now a notice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament at 10 hours and 48 minutes have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And now he has the floor of the proposal's representative, Honored Defence Minister Fred Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd just briefly refer to so far's exposure. So here, Mr. Cain repeated twice the whole proposal to amend and supplement the law. One more time for all of you. All provisions, all and one are affirmative, positive. None of them reduces rights, let alone abolish any right. If it wants to be politicized, every provision can be politicized, so here's my friend Tinker about these widows and for you clarification one more time. So widows can get married, that's not an obligation. There are, I have written clues, requests from women who have lost their rights stemming from the law. Our Law on Defence Rights is older than the Family Law and a woman who wants to marry, that there is one, and there is more than one, believe me, so it's worth this provision of the law. In a similar way, I explained it to the associations, so here's the thing that's best for you. Anyone who lives in Ilock has the right to a free ferry ticket Vis – Lastovo if ever found there, has the right to that map. If he never comes to Vis, he won't even use that map. So it's not a mandatory provision to anyone. Second part, here's just a little reference to the register. So I agree with these things that you said there are a lot of countries that haven't published the register, but there are some countries that have published their war veterans' lists. The late President Tudjman said at the end of the war that Croatia was defending 350,000 people. I've recently read the "National" stenograms in which he is disgusted by these numbers and cannot believe it was so much. Look at that National. As far as the announcement is concerned, as the esteemed representative Marasovic said, I agree that all possible publications are being published. So we live in the 21st century. Only the announcements you're talking about are not in the power of the Ministry of Defence or are now the subject of this debate in the Parliament, but I agree that everything is being published. Many live, I think, in a century or two behind, and it's all for you, it's all a secret. Croatian citizens have the right to know who they pay for their pension, who they pay for their disability and why. And just one more sentence, that I agree with the Croatian Defence Registry, has a double role to play. An extremely honorable and proud list for those whose place is on that list and extremely embarrassing for those who do not belong there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23289	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We're going to the replicas for your exposure. The first is the respected representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to speak out loud and clear which country published the register of your participants in an operation. No country has ever done that. Don't just go out with the information that I don't know her in America published a list of the participants of some operation. Yeah, there's that. But it wasn't the government. It was private organizations that collected data from the lawyers themselves. So, responsiblely I claim no country has ever announced and we will be the first to probably do so. No one's ever stopped widows from getting married before. And that's not what this is about. It is about whether rights stemming from a previous marriage can still be applied. Nothing else. And when you talk about the number of defenders, Mr. Minister, here's a list of all the units, the MORH of the Homeland War. There are 790,000 people on that list. He's relevant. The fact is that a good part of the people during the 6 years of the Homeland War changed troops, but the fact that the troops were significantly larger in terms of people who went through them than their formational size. So here's just one example, you have the 111th Army of Rijeka, which is where 14 thousand 944 defenders went through in the Homeland War. The formation size of that brigade is 2,000 people. You have the 112st Zadar Brigade – 8 thousand 989 people, you have the 113st Sibenik brigade of 14 thousand 605 people. This list is without a member of the MUP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23291	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, Honored Defence Minister Fred Matic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23292	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivić, I've brought several countries but you've asked for one, so I'll grant you a wish, here's Canada has published lists of all its war veterans, but if we were to use those analogies all the time, then why are we judging for example our former prime minister? Why don't you give me one bar state in the world that dared and dared and tried its prime minister? If that's what we're going to do. ... Secondly, I agree with you on the matter of widows. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's nothing but real. Yes, but only right. And third, this list, you say that there were 790 thousand, so no one twos, let's not drag the story to another level and to another topic. So, here we are talking about the register as a publication of Croatian defenders. If all 501 thousand 666 honest and honorable none are happier than us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23293	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23294	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's Mr. Minister says that all the provisions that are in the proposal to amend and supplement the laws are affirmative and very good, which will benefit Croatian defenders. I would agree with you that you have really provided funds in the budget to make these provisions that are beautiful on paper, but they are a dead letter on paper and will certainly not experience their success since for 140 and some million kuna the budget for the needs of Croatian defenders cannot be achieved either. So do not demagoguely show the Croatian defenders that they will get something. They won't get anything because there's no money in the budget for it. As regards the register and its publication, it is anti-constitutional and we will be sure to ask for an assessment of the constitutionality, since Article 37 clearly speaks of guaranteeing everyone's security, the confidentiality of personal data. Without the consent of the subject, personal data may only be collected, processed and used under conditions prescribed or specified by law only. The use of personal data contrary to the intended purpose of their collection shall be prohibited. Therefore, there is no reason, and the Ministry of Defence as well as the Ministry of the Interior lists of defenders and participants of the Homeland War has placed the information classified in the category of secrecy as limited. You didn't ask for this classification to be downloaded so you could publish them, you didn't follow the Personal Data Protection Act, and we're sure if the Constitutional Court considers this to fall on you. And otherwise, we will file personal charges against you who have initiated and passed such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23295	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, Honored Minister Fred Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23296	So thank you very much, Mr. President. So, if you'd listened carefully to my exposure, I said these are improvements that don't require significant, significant monetary separations. As much as this calls for it will be covered by current existing budgets. For example, nothing changes when he dies, God forbid, but when a 100-percent Croatian military invalid dies, his pension only passes through automation to his wife regardless of her age. We went to help these women because they're basically the wives of the military disabled and we're not leaving them in that hole, in a vacuum until they get their rights to that pension. The peace of widows of Croatian military disabled people who will receive supplies, it is a symbolic 1,100 kuna, it is symbolic, but before today it was zero, so I would multiply it and say it is 1,100 times more but we can't count with zero, so I can't express it that way. Secondly, as far as the register is concerned, I'm also asking you, I've read it, and we've got all the necessary consent and advocating of the competent ministries, offices and agencies. For your further information about the whole story in this country, I'm being horrified, and it's very difficult for me, so it's classic politicization. No law on the protection of personal data in the last year has been changed but a year ago in this same place we had assurances that the law cannot be changed, that the data cannot be published because it prevents it, that and that, and now with the same laws we have written, thank God-written assurances that all this can be published. If there's a lawsuit I can go to jail for one lawsuit and I'm very happy to go to jail, I've been in Serbian concentration camps for nine months, but I'm sure it'll be a lot easier for me in Remetinco, and if I have money, I'll feed from Balthazar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23297	Thank you, too. Next replica, Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23298	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, Mr. Minister, you asked, and if it wasn't about the topic of some other countries where the former prime ministers were being processed, so here on the other side of the Adriatic, the Italian Social Democratic Prime Minister is also. But we're back on the subject. You were talking about being in the 21st century, the question is, unfortunately, are our neighbors also living in the 21st century? When you read today, here in The Hague, Haradinaj is also freed from the guilt that you, with this publication of the defence register, assume and responsibility even say from official politics in Belgrade and some individuals that this will take over in this atmosphere of radical nationalism, which unfortunately happens in the neighbouring country, will take it not as a register but as a list of scraps. You know, it doesn't need to be politicized, but it's perfectly safe to look at all possible implications for national security. If you said there were no more than $350,000, and you had a year to sort it out. And delete these others. You will publish their names, publish the names of those false but do not endanger the safety of those who honorably defended the Republic of Croatia. If they want to point it out themselves, of course they can. But I think the state has to take care of national security, and this announcement puts it at risk. And that's why serious states don't do it, especially when they're dealing with a situation like this where unfortunately one policy is being conducted that wants to manipulate the judiciary to achieve some political goals that they failed to achieve by war.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23299	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica, respected Minister Fred Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23300	Thank you very much. Mr. Stier, when I was a little girl, my mom used to scare me if I wasn't a good boogeyman. Today, the defenders are constantly afraid of some kind of Sava Squirt, some kind of list or something. I repeat, if you do not understand, this is about the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, not criminals, but Croatian defenders. If I or any Croatian defender stuck at any border just because he's a Croatian defender, I said it symbolically and truly, I'll go to prison for him, be sure. And I'm still going to tell you this is 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23301	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let me tell you, all the important things in life and all the nice things in life are said very quietly, whispering, not yelling. I'm asking you nicely to let the minister speak. He needs to be heard by the citizens, and you're setting up and replicating for the citizens, and not for yourself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23302	Mr. Stier, I've already said that I've been in Serbian concentration camps for nine months and for you and for all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I'm not sorry and I'd still be sorry for Purda, but Purda was completely innocent and that's just one isolated case. 2010 is if you know the published and released the wild register of Croatian defenders that no one normally agrees with. We now want to publish it in a legal and fair way. Who, after that announcement of the wild register, ended up in any prison? If Mr. Ivić can talk about it, you know it as well as I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23303	Don't throw it away let your thoughts end the way he thinks. Don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23304	And I never said Mr. Stier that I said there were 350 thousand defenders. I'm not talking about defense numbers, nor did I say for a moment, I quoted the late President Tudjman as saying it was 350. The official indicator that we have at the ministry says 501 grand, here's an esteemed representative saying it's 790. As far as I'm concerned, two million and four, but we will announce it to the pride of all Croatian defenders of all Croatian citizens. And believe me, so far, a lot of units have issued their monographs saying a lot more data than we intend to publish in the register. No defense attorney ever got hurt. You know who died after the monograph was published? Good and honest people who had been collecting materials for two, three and more years to publish monographs, and then by mistake, they dropped some defender. More than 10 or 50 of those other guys who weren't put in. So don't scare people. And I said this, and thank you, so I also replicated to Mr. Ivic, so one prime minister, so you told me that he was looking for two countries, and I would tell you two, three countries that published the register, but then you couldn't answer what three prime ministers ended up in prison.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23305	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23306	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister said first as an argument, he has now made a little bit of a correction but that there is no country that judges the prime ministers, which is actually one praise with its ignorance because from Iceland to Egypt, from Italy to Ukraine or Romania, etc. There were heads everywhere, not just meant to be. The thesis, however, that there were no more than 350,000 is simply unsustainable. We only had 200,000 people under weapons during the Storm, only during the Storm, during one action, and then multiply it by 4 or 5 years of the Homeland War, so you'll see what number you'll get. And on the other hand, what is implicated here in other discussions, those who support this law that there is no combat and non-combating sector. In all the war doctrines for one soldier under arms, you should have four behind him. So this number can only be far larger than this one, and not smaller, and that's what makes this whole structure simply problematic especially when used, and that's what you used, that exists in this list of honorable and dishonest. So this is what actually this whole intensity and the intention of this law pretends to reduce on one hand the number of defenders in Croatia to show that it was still some sort of all Croatian resistance against aggression but even here do not use the expression aggression in this law but I will say it in the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23307	Replication response, Honored Minister Fred Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23308	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tudjman, thank you for your instruction, and you are always welcome to teach me because I don't think I'm the smartest or that I know the whole issue as well as you know it, and I don't envy it. 350,000 people said I will not tell your father but the late commander-in-chief and president of the Republic of Croatia. Look at the stenogram of the conversation, I mentioned it to the National where he was threatened and where Mrs Mintas Hodak, Mr Shkegro and Mr. Jure Radic didn't dare and then all slowly talk about the data of what it was. Second or third, you are also General of the Croatian Army and re-enter incorrect information among citizens who are less familiar with the situation with such information. Yes, 220,000 people participated in the Storm. What have they been since '91? '95. They went home and then they mobilized 220,000 new people? Mr. Tudjman, in those 220 000 people now I dare say that there were 70, 80% of the people in the '90s, '91. And don't blur it out like that. To end, when it was said at the end of the war it seemed to me here in this house that there were 350,000 defenders. I can understand and I can really understand that 1,2.5, 1700, 2,500 people after the war remembered that I was at war too. But that 150,000 people after the war remember they were at war more than incredible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23309	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's the short one. Mr. Minister, of course we're war friends and we don't need to outwit each other, so we don't have to tell each other stories, but I really think we all have an honest intention to do something good for these defenders, but I repeat, we have to respect what's called the law. So I'm talking about widows who get the right to get married. There's no one against it, but if the family disability is the basis for everything, and she's here because that widow or that widower lost his spouse, then it needs to be settled legally because those other people who won't get married or maybe none tomorrow will tell us that we discriminated against them by it. So we simply need to settle the law by legal means, and not just by some fairy tale, but we'll give it to them, they won't. It doesn't mind, let's help them, let's work it out, but in a real way called law enforcement. And on top of that, I'll just say two words about the register. There's no one against the publication of the register, but I'm just saying that the publication of the register is whether half the defenders are 20%, 10%, or 50%, irrelevant. The important thing is that we all here call on human rights nonstop, to respect I don't know what, but no one asked those people if they were for it. So if you publish the name and last name, date of birth, place and combat sector or non-combat with time spent in the war, you have published very delicate personal data. So who's asking you people? So the only category of Croatian defenders we must not respect or respect in this sense is to ask them if they are for it. For everyone else we want to publish, we have to ask, we have to carry out a referendum or we have to leave the view that we're violating someone's rights, whether it's pedophiles, criminals, criminals or some other category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23311	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, Honored Minister Fred Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23312	Here's just two sentences. So no one asked the defenders to publish the register, it's just not true. But we're going with, so every defender is very sweet to his Croatian dream when he gets a pension, when he gets a disability, but he still doesn't want everyone to know. Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23313	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23314	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you said at one point about these rights to widows. I think you said it right, it can and doesn't have to be consumed, there's no commitment, there's a possibility, and I don't think there's anything controversial about it. But when it comes to the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, I, as a Croatian defender, want that register published for a number of reasons. One reason is that throughout the whole series of these past years such a bad atmosphere has been created around us by Croatian defenders, by ourselves, that our children simply do not learn in the textbooks of real history. The textbooks write the defeated in the war, not the winners in the war. We're a unique country by that. And it would be an honor not to let my child, my child, know what's going on and my children. I'm saying it, we're saying it at home. But that their friends who may even be confused know that my son's father, my daughter, was a member of the Croatian Army, a volunteer of the Homeland War. And it's not a question of how many defenders there were, it's not the most controversial question. I think it's the vast majority of defenders for it to be published. My personal opinion, at least in conversation with them. It is also disputed that because of the data and for those who belong to the right to be on that list spent in the Homeland War. This is of interest to the comrades who came together on the same day to join the task force, and there are colors of those who allowed themselves to go and for a year before the Homeland War began to be conducted by the status of Croatian defender. Some have defended the Great Lady in 1990. The Republic of Croatia on large-serb aggression.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23315	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23316	Why the publication of Mr. Secretary's Defence Register is not acceptable, and I think the way you're defending him is that you're the last one to want to publish it. But here, we heard during the day that it was also a pre-election promise to the Kukurik coalition, so that's what I'm doing. 67 years have passed since the People's Liberation War. There's no announcement. 17 years since the Homeland War. That's what we're publishing. Do you think perhaps of the circumstances when you thought about it and made it as a pre-election promise and made sense. Do you think today, in these circumstances, following the release of the Hague ruling, it makes sense for our generals to publish a defence register when you know that actions and reconnaissances are already being carried out in the neighbouring country regarding all legal military actions carried out in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23317	Thank you, too. And a response to the replica, respected Minister Fred Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23318	Yes, as I have been all 20 years for the publication of this register after the acquittal of our generals, I am even more willing to publish this register.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23319	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Frano Vidovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23320	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, I must say, I agree completely with everything the minister has said so far. But here's to make a little progress, and I'm going to quote him, "What war effort did Croatia have to endure comes from the fact that it was in the time of '91. '95. In the year, the mobilization included 360 thousand 70 military taxpayers who were 92.1% Croatian nationality, 2.40 Serbian, 1.18% Muslim, and the share of each of the ten other minorities was below 1%." So that's not what Franco Vidovic says. This is what the late President-in-Office of the Supreme Commandant and my commander-in-chief in the Report of the President of the Republic of Croatia Dr. Franje Tudjman on the state of the Croatian state and nation in '95. year at the joint session of both House of Croatian Parliament on 15 January 1996. I believe the late president and, as commander-in-chief, has had all the data needed to come out with such a number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23321	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and answers to the replica for this time. What, who? Unfortunately, I haven't written down, and there's no reason not to write you down. It's not a problem in one replica, it's a problem that you can tap, look, everything. It's not a problem. Say the line. Here you go. It's not a problem in the replica, it's that you know not the beginner, but that every MP knows if we don't look and we can't watch. Tap it, it'll ring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23322	Dear President, several replicas have been raised at one point. Among them was mine. It doesn't matter. Thank you very much for your opportunity. You told the Honorable Ministers about the register. To honor those who have a place there, I suppose it is an honor to worry about those who do not belong there, and all together to the pride of Croatian defenders. Now I'm interested in who's gonna take the honor out of honor or worry about being proud of everything together? How's the procedure? Whether I'm going to be able to wipe out those I notice aren't supposed to be on that list or I'm going to have to go into administrative proceedings, maybe sue those same ones that I notice aren't supposed to be on that list. And when we talk about the entire defence population, I'm going to take a poll from the defence portal, because I think it's relevant enough that only 15% of those who have been surveyed want to publish that defence registry, and I remain on my claim that you threw bone to the population of Croatian defenders underestimating it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23323	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, Honored Minister Fred Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23324	Thank you very much for your question. So the answer could be the same as the distinguished representative Marasovic and others who have been asking questions here. The role of the Ministry of Defence, the task of the Ministry of Defence, is to publish the register of Croatian defenders. Point. I am neither the president of the state, nor the president of the Parliament, nor the head of the DORH, nor the chief of USKOK, nor the police minister. So there are another million institutions that need to be said by President Mesic to do his job. It's mine, the Defense Department is to publish the register, and that's how it's gonna be. And for your information, I hope that I'm not going to be joined by the distinguished professor by the Forum Warriors, and they're not even relevant in assessing whether there's someone to announce something or not, usually those to whom it's exactly what the Prime Minister says they're scratching where it's itchy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23325	Thank you very much. Now we are truly done with replicas and responses to the replica and one piece of information, or a request for cooperation. I suggest we work in continuity, so no lunch break. And secondly, I would like to say after these replicas in Croatia, the public interest is determined only by the Croatian Parliament. And now we're going to have a debate with the representatives' clubs. Next up is Zeljko Shemper on behalf of the HSU Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23326	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The current application of this law has shown a quality system for the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. With its sacrifice and contribution to the creation of the Croatian state, this population of defenders certainly deserves it. The law also protects their families, especially those who lost their son, husband, or father in that righteous defense war. The amendments to this law seek to strengthen the importance and reputation of the Homeland War and solve some of the problems of the defence population as well as their families so far. This is particularly true of addressing the housing problems of defense families without any state-of-the-art incentives. The problem of Croatian wartime disabled widows who had not completed 50 years of life at the time of their spouse’s death has also not been recognized, and because of the known conditions on the labour market they could not find employment. It is therefore necessary to take greater care of groups of Croatian defenders and members of their families who so far have not been able to exercise some of their earned rights. It is correct that the law tries to resolve and enable the conclusion of a new marriage or extramarital community for widows and extramarital wives of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. In doing so, it is important that they retain until then the rights of the law, which is certainly a significant civilizational shift. As regards the provisions on the right to priority in employment, this will be a little harder to achieve in view of the large number of unemployed in the Croatian Employment and Too few new jobs. There is also a good solution to the right to supply supplies to widows who are dead from the Homeland War, who are not employed in the period from 45 to 50 years of life, cannot achieve a family pension according to the general rules, and are found under difficult economic conditions. Amendments and additions to the law provide for public publication of the list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, so-called Defense register. For a long time, there has been a legitimate need for such a decision, primarily the expectations of most of the public, as well as most of the defenders' associations, as well as the defenders themselves. But there are also those who feel that this is not good for the protection of Croatian defenders' integrity. The Ministry of Defence believes that publication of the register in the public will strengthen the dignity of Croatian defenders, promote the value of the Homeland War as well as strengthen the honour and reputation of Croatian defenders. Articles 109a, 109b, 109c and 109d regulate the whole process of publication of the Defence Register in which data from the official records of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior are pooled. The register is intended to consist of a general and specific part and of supporting data. Article 109c provides for legal assumptions for the public publication of part of the data contained in the Defence Register. First of all, what is also the purpose of the publication of a part of the data contained in the Defence Register, while respecting the provisions of the Data Protection Act and the Data Securitisation Act. Data from the register will also be used by the Investment Fund when it issues confirmation of the number of participations in the Croatian Defence Fund, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in the recognition of the minimum pension right for the purposes of administrative procedures conducted by the Ministry as well as for other purposes provided for by law. What does the Croatian public expect from the public publication of the Defence Register? As it is said that in every grain there is also a weed, so this publication can also be used to control all data from the Defence Register. The truthfulness of the data can best be checked by the defenders themselves who know best who is, where, when and how much he was in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Personally, I think that every citizen would be honored and proud to be on such a list as well as any real and honest defender. If it and those who should not have been found there, it is perfectly normal to issue zero solutions to monetary and other rights that they have possibly used. Because these amendments and additions address better the observed problems of the HSU Representatives Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23327	Thank you, Your Honor. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23328	I must admit that this debate is not clear to me, that I must leave the constitutional categories of the Republic of Croatia in discussions and in Parliament. The defense of the attacked homeland is the duty of those who are of age to defend it, not the privilege and acquisition of rights. I think that this should be taken into account and that there should be a criterion for who the defenders who had to defend, not to gain certain rights. And as for the categories of people with disabilities and the dead, I'm completely open and they need to be admitted. Here we have mixed pears and apples, but against the basic provision of the Croatian Constitution that people are obliged, not to gain the rights to defend the attacked homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23329	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23330	You said nice that probably among those Croatian defenders none of them have anything special against knowing who and when and where he was, I just want to complete what I didn't finally get to say when I said and about the time spent in the war. So, when I mentioned some of the Great Lady's 1990s defended against the great Serbian aggression there I don't want to say that it didn't begin because the Balvan Revolution began in 17.8.1990, but there are also those who had the status of defender from that Great Lady in Djakova when there were no war events there, so the same thing should be cleared up among others. But what is more important to me is the fact that we within the Croatian state will clarify not only the Defence Registry but also determine what is the status of Croatian defenders who began defending the Republic of Croatia before the 8th of 1991. is it according to the Croatian court's rulings that only all of us before the 8th of 1991 were members of paramilitary formations. It is said that Croatia did not have the right to legal armed forces, and we have the Law of Defence on 26 June we are celebrating... we celebrate the Day of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, if by the 8th of June we were not regular troops, then all those who were before the 8th of October put on the uniform of the ZNG or the Croatian army, which is stated in the verdict to General Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23331	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23332	Well, Mr. Representative, I agree with your views and the need to control all this data, and it's especially important how long it's been, whether these data will be relevant, and the defenders themselves know it best. And I don't believe that the street will comment on and determine who the defender was, and on which battlefield I think it's the duty of both the defenders and this one, because in conversations with the defenders and the pensioners and they're very interested, and they all know and point to the finger, point to those who are wounded, under what circumstances they're wounded so that there are a lot of troublesome things. And that's where I think the defense attorneys will have a fundamental role to play in pointing out some of the wrong data from the Defense Register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23333	Thank you, Your Honor. And the next replica, the esteemed representative, Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Schamper, here's a short one. At one point you said against the publication of the register they have nothing against all those who are honest and honorable defenders. What does it mean that those who have a different opinion are not honorable or honest or something third? And this on the trail Mr Grubisic said, so it was a duty to defend the country with that I absolutely agree. Perhaps this should result in the publication of all those who are not their duty who have escaped from their duties may be more important to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23335	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23336	Well, I also stressed in my debate that it is an honor to be on the list and that every citizen would be proud to have found himself on it. It means he made his contribution to the defense of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23337	Thank you very much. We're going to have a debate with the representatives' clubs. It is now the turn of the HDSSB and the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23338	Here's Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. The Homeland War, as the late President Tudjman called it, and this concept somehow became a name we call today the Croatian war that we freed, a war in which, with the great victims of the Croatian people from '91 to '95, Croatia created and defended our country, surely was a fair and liberating war. And in this war, the Serbian politics were translated into this unfortunate Slobodan Milosevic, who had the full support of the JNA and the good part of the seduced Serb population. To be part of this for the Croatian history of truly fateful time, to be a member of the national protection, to be a member of the MUP, to be a member of the ZNG, to be a member of the HoS, to be a member of the Croatian army is a historic honor and privileges that have been dreamed of generations before us, and has just survived our generation. And every Croatian patriot who has died in the defense of the Croatian state who has left part of his body or part of his soul in the defense of his homeland has been woven into the very foundations of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian State, through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences of the Homeland War, returned its debt to these people or to us in the way it knew or thought best for the then ruling political elite and its interests and for the interests of Croatian defenders. I'm not going to look back and give my opinion in general about this law, that's what I'm talking about. I'm going to look back now on the proposed amendments to that law. So the first thing that we support in this proposal unreservedly is Article 31, which states that "the Croatian defender from Homeland War to the death of the Home War is considered to be historically important persons with the obligation of the owner of the cemetery until the Croatian defender no longer has the living heirs of the local self-government unit to take up permanent care of the maintenance of the grave" This article is very good because these cases will be more and this will affect the focus of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the fact that people who have truly died for the Republic of Croatia and if they do not have an heir that they will be buried in the grave for 10 years or 10 years and buried somewhere in some common tomb and this change is excellent. Second, Article 9 providing support to volunteers of the Homeland War for the purchase of residential property in the amount foreseen for 20 years. 30% HRVI. This is one step that is trying to make the law more or less law-oriented towards victims and family members focus on volunteers. Of course, there's no money in this year's budget as some have said, but it doesn't matter, it might not happen next year, but this provision is being built in. He'll be there when we get a chance to spend it. So there's going to be money, no one's expecting these rights to be realised in the budget this year but to be introduced into the law and that's useful. In the years to come, there will be opportunities to finally focus on the category of volunteers that were practically never dealt with by law, always being... categories of victims. Most of the changes in other articles of the law in the context of the law as we consider acceptable. What we would like to express a certain doubt is the following articles. Article 37, which provides for the suspension of art in art institutions, is the fact that the suicide of a Croatian defender from the Homeland War is the result of a mental illness related to participation in the Homeland War. We are not sure of the best justification for this solution, nor the consequences that could result from the application of this article, and whether this could ultimately turn out to be harmful, not to the benefit of the Croatian defender and his family. I think that by respecting the good intentions of the promoter, there may be little more to think about and consult on the fact that these articles in the 37th are actually done in a more likely way than the benefits of Croatian defenders' families. This Regulation shall enter into force on the This article provides that a spouse or extramarital friend of the dead Croatian defenders and HRVI from 1st to 4th group by entering a new marriage or in an extramarital community did not lose the right precisely from the fact of a previous marriage or out of wedlock. This formulation, Minister Matic, explained it around if there is one I will, therefore, at the presentation of the law, the bill, I will push it out. If there's one. Well, ministers never pass any laws for one man. A man’s problem can always be solved by a lawsuit or administrative procedure. The laws are passed for the majority. In this case, there is no consensus, no consensus, no consensus, no consensus, no such association of widows, and there is also a question of family law. In the Pension Insurance Act, and there is, of course, no one contests that people marry and marry, divorce, remarriage, I think it's today's norm of society or that they live in extramarital communities. And if a woman really is grieving for her husband her whole life, she has a right to do that. If he moves again, turns the page, starts a new life, enters a new community. Which is why someone, anyone in this society, should be hired for life and necessity. What exactly are the circumstances? And she has the right, but some kind of permanent, lifelong compensation in terms of family disability, I don't know, I think that this right should simply be brought into line with existing Croatian legislation. So we are also open to possible counterarguments or for further discussion while there is time for another reading, but we are not sure that this solution is on the trail of neither existing laws nor the interest of these people. Furthermore, Article 6 of this Article allows those who have once deserted or been unlawfully fired from the Armed Forces to acquire the rights laid down in the law if they have subsequently re-emerged in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. So, the one who deserted '91, fled to Graz, and '91. was mobilized in the Storm acquired the right of Croatian defenders, status and all that stems from the law. Other deserters are preparing for years of imprisonment, and we will now return those rights and because someone has been mobilized a few years later we will equate it with the status of those who have been Croatian volunteers and defenders for years. It's pointless, it's illegal. If we forgive him once for deserting, let him be grateful to the Republic of Croatia for not serving time. Furthermore, Article 7 stipulates that the widows of the HRVI 1st and 2nd groups who died for reasons of exceptional circumstances in the defence of the Republic of Croatia have the right to retire already after 40th year, and not as before 50th year. I'm sorry, but it's too much, it's too much. According to the deputy minister, the law is brought for eight women at the moment. So Homeland War is not defended by the retirement of women at 40 years old, whether she has or has no place on the labour market. But let's not be hypocrites. It's not a question of money here, it's a matter of principle and message that we send as a society. A living healthy woman will be retired at 40 because she can no longer be included in the labour market for at least 50 years. We consider other articles of the law relatively acceptable. As regards the articles on the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, the HDSSB Representatives Club supports the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. In the data published in the register we consider and do not see the meaning of, for example, the publication of the address of the Croatian defender's residence, the current address. .../The Intruder doesn't understand. The information to be published in the register. Okay, when you say so. It's also a gender announcement. I don't think it's necessary because it shows which sex counsel is by name and last name. I think what it says about participation, why we should publish sex. Okay. In addition to the publication of the register, however, we consider it quite meaningful and published if we publish information about those who defended the Republic of Croatia we consider it quite meaningful and normal to publish the register and those against whom these defenders fought and those who were aggressors to the Republic of Croatia. The defense register and the aggressor register. In doing so, we only think of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We are not interested in the list of foreign citizens but citizens, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, a good basis for this list of people who participated in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia, would include data from the State Attorney's Office against persons who were charged with participating in an armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia, who were later covered by the abolization. According to some data, the number of such is greater than 20,000. In this regard, we are not aimed at raising tension, politicalism, or rematchism, or anything like that. The aim of this request is to publish the register of those who participated in the rebellion against the Republic of Croatia, together with the defence register, in the fact that the historical truth was that there were those against whom these defenders fought. Today they are equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They should stay that way, of course, unless they committed war crimes. But the public has the right to know as one of the predecessors has said. If the public has the right to know who the Republic of Croatia is, then the public has the right to know which citizens of the Republic of Croatia participated in the aggression on that same Republic. Also, the law should set out a clearly fast and transparent way of reacting when a citizen asks not to be published in the register, as it is now said by the forums of the masses of people that they will require not to be published in the register. I guess it'll be about tens of thousands of people who will simply ask that their data not be published in the register. And it needs to be clarified what it means to look for a certain man, a certain person, not to be published in the register. And whether and how not to publish in the register can be tied to the question of the status of defenders. So now, in these amendments, there is no law. It's just what people need to be made possible. It's supposed to be an anti-cipe event. Leave for a while and then simply allow one part of the people who do not want to appear on that list at all, to allow them in a simple and quick way to permanently delete from that register. Because there must be a mass of people who have in no way drawn any privileges from what is in that register. But they're out of touch in it, they shouldn't be located at all and should simply enable these people in a simple way, elegantly not to be published in the register at all. Because as already, as the predecessors had previously stated when the late President Tudjman said that 350,000 people participated in the war, we all felt that the number was exaggerated. And when the government of the previous president of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor announced that it was 500,000 people, then we all knew it was about falsifying history. That counterfeit sort of offends the historical truth. It's not a question of who did it, not even a question of who got used to it or who didn't get used to it. Let's put that aside. It's a fake of historical truth. And as I said on the Veterans Committee if the maximum number of Vukovar defenders was brought to 2000 and something which is a maximum number of 2400, and this is the "Storm" of the biggest event in the Homeland War, no offense to anything that happened, then say that after those, it is a maximum number even that number is quite dimensional because it was actually smaller, and then to say that 500,000 people defended Croatia. What did these other 498000 defend? This number of insults actually those who participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23339	Thank you. The replica has Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23340	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, Djurovic supported the new proposals put by the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence in the law on amendments and supplements in front of the HDSSB club and so 30 to 40,000 volunteers say there will be money for their housing. It's hard to find the money. That you looked at the budget of 140 million kuna less in 2013. 13 grand and something disabled in the Homeland War that hasn't been taken care of so far. And when you talk about the register of Croatian defenders, about the size and quantity and the number of indicators, that over 500,000 Croatian defenders are in the register that it is not, that it is a historical lie and false then you must confront the actual data of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, look at the growth, demobilization, the completeness, the formation of new units and everything that followed. And I have to inform you, of all 500 and some thousands of just 24436 were over five years in the Homeland War. So Mr. Minister also talks about how mobilized it was for "Storm" 24436 defenders have been for over 5 years in this entire system of layoffs due to disease, wounding, suffering, family problems and all other things that happened to demobilization in '92. First, then recharged in '93, then formed some new units in '94. And so on. You have to deal with it all. The relevant data of these ministries stands. They're defenders. That not everyone was on the front line about being able to talk. They are divided into a combat and non-combat sector and should certainly remain that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23341	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23342	Mr. Djakic, they say eyes don't lie, lie, lie eyes. Don't think that what you always see is really true. As for volunteers and the budget of the Ministry of Veterans, the Ministry of Defence, yes, the Ministry of Defence in these year under the leadership of Mr Matic proved unable to spend even the funds allocated, 50m kuna and some million kunas they did not spend because Mr Matic had suddenly increased the standard of defenders and did not want to spend on supplies and on the permanent rights of defenders. And of course when he didn't spend it this year, then the finance minister took it away from him. And you're right about that. But what I have told you is that these articles that are being passed and the rights of volunteers to a certain extent that are now being introduced into the law will be an opportunity in the years to come. There will be opportunities in new budgets that come in both those budgets and those governments where the HDSSB will participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23343	Replica, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23344	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I also want to replicate the statement of the honourable representative who said I quote, speaking of course of new housing rights, "there's no money now, it doesn't matter it'll be one time." That's just not true. When the law enters into force and the law enters into force when it is published in the National Journal, so first reading is second reading, so we assume that the law will enter into force if not earlier in the following year 2013, it must apply immediately. So no one will be able to tell any person, any defender who will gain new rights under this law, we can't now in this year, one day, it doesn't matter when but one day. Because if the law is not passed when voted in the Croatian Parliament, of course those involved will be able to initiate the proceedings and will be able to complain. As for your findings on the number of Croatian defenders spoke of by the first president, Dr. Tudjman, I have one thing to say, and that's not about counterfeiting. This register is not a fake. It was created on the basis of hard work connecting data from both the MUP and the MORH. These are relevant data that can be verified. And this register, which we published not as you said in my term as Prime Minister but in 2005, is the result of hard work and people in the MORH and people in the Ministry of the Croatian Defence. And since its foundation, this ministry has never and has never signed the status of Croatian defence ministers before, but it seemed to be in the MORH and MUP system and, of course, wartime commanders involved. And I remind you of a statement by Mr. Kotromanovic who was a warlord and now the defence minister in a similar region has said to my question can you now remember every defender, every soldier you signed your status to? He said of course not. And I totally understand that because it's been so long. Who's going to find out now?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23345	Thank you, colleague Kosor! The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23346	Yeah, sorry I said wrong. In your term as defence minister, a register was published. So it doesn't matter, let me put it this way, I was talking not about how many people there are in the register but about the notion that 500 thousand people participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. So that number, that number. Now that I'm experiencing this number by myself, and you're going to let me, since there's this representative immunity that protects me, and for the word spoken in the assembly, I'm experiencing this information as a historical falsification. And that's my deep impression because I'm sure the defence of the Republic of Croatia did not involve 500 thousand people and I think that this impression is shared and a good part of those who took part in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23347	Replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23348	Dear Madam Vice President, so allow me to refer to this term first forgeries of history. I think he's a very dangerous term, except he's incorrect, he's very dangerous because when we politicians talk about history here every time in Croatian history when politicians start messing around in history, it's bad. So history should be evaluated by historians, and we can talk about facts. The facts are like this or they're like that, they prove themselves, there's evidence or there's no evidence. Therefore, I would stay away from such expressions as the forgeries of history. It's true what you said about the bizarre story that deserters will be able to recognise their status, but when we talk about volunteers and I mean exactly the same as the distinguished representative Kosor that it's funny to vote the law and say something someone has the right under that law, and then in the beginning to say is 'but he won't actually have the right under that law because the money doesn't exist, so we'll see maybe one day we'll have the money. That's ridiculous! Because the law either works, or we respect all the laws of some or we don't respect them. I guess we all want to respect the laws of that I think it's very important to take care of it. What I would say is related, however, to something others have not mentioned, and this is one danger that actually stems from the publication of this list of defenders, which stems from exactly the belongings of the fighting or non-combating sector. There are, of course, stereotypes that are very persistently trendy through the media trying to present. There were always some cleaners in the morh who were then getting or not getting everything. But I'll tell you another example, so now you decide what it will look like when it is published. So all the health workers who participated in the Homeland War started a part of them as volunteers, started with the Anti-Terrorist Unit Lučko, began in the so-called "Terrorist Unit". The mobile teams that we've organized from the Sanitary headquarters are all of them until 20.3.1993, listen to what I'm telling you, the war lasts 2.5 years, all of them. have been declared a non-combat sector. [[Agreement: Comrade Reiner bring the place to replica.]] Although we know that 10% of the health workers were on the front lines, they were in the greatest dangers and whoever you were in the Homeland War was very well aware of they were all in the non-combat sector. [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23349	Replication response. Drazen Djurovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23350	Mr. Rainer, I don't think at all, nor do I take the right to believe that there's some monopoly on the truth or what I'm saying anytime it's true. I'm saying what I think and what I really believe. And I'm not saying what I don't mean. So what I really believe in, and that's my impression, and that's how I see things, and I don't even think about saying that I'm the one who brings out any absolute truth, but you know as well as I do as a scientist that eyes can't be trusted too much, and when I'm talking about eyes, I've been thinking about a variety of records. That's what they're called. Compilations of the complications of which was created by the Register of Croatian Defence Compiling Compilations. And as for this procedure and how to implement these new rights for volunteers and Mrs. Kosor and you know very well, she knows even better than I do how much the process of collecting documents, procedures, listings, and what deadlines that even begin to implement certain measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23351	Replica Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23352	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Djurovic, said the figure was clearly his impression that it was a historic forgery. I am grateful to MP Vidovic for presenting this quote where President Tudjman said it was 360 thousand if I remember the number of mobilized people well. Mobilized means that they were most of them not all but most of them were in the fighting sector. So this whole discussion is actually about whether the non-combat sectors are the same defenders or not. And according to the non-combat sector, I've said by all the doctrines of the Homeland War in the non-combat sector, you have four men in the background, four to eight that the war depends on the character of war. And this war was a defensive war, so the number in the non-combat sector was far higher than in the case of any Vietnamese or any other war or NATO operations anywhere else in the world. So if we have that number of 360 thousand that no one is questioning, then it means it's about the principle that was incorporated into this law that recognises the non-combat sector but we don't agree with that non-combating sector, is it literally the minister said that 150 thousand remembered after the war that they were at war? Since this law will cause too much conflict, we will be gnawing against each other instead of defining precisely what the combat and non-combat sectors mean, then to a much greater extent, these disagreements would not be the thesis of the falsification of history or of false and dishonest defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23353	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Đražan Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23354	Well, here's a short one, Mr. Tudjman, and you have your own attitude and opinion, just like everyone else does. But what is the problem with this doctrine of yours that you have now brought forth the relations of the fighting and the non-combating sector is, for example, The Vukovar of those 2,000 people in Vukovar did not benefit much from that non-combat sector of several tens of thousands in Zagreb in the fall of '91. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23355	And the last replica of my colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23356	Dale, from everything Đurovic said, I especially want to underline more than just a legitimate request that not only be published by the Croatian Defence Register, and that should be published all, all to see who is also from politicians in this register of Croatian defenders and I don't know which units they were in just because they were politically similar let's be honest they even got high rank. Everything needs to be published. Let our citizens and our compatriots from the Homeland War see if they have a place in the Croatian Defence Register. However, it is also necessary to publish and make a register of all the abolised and Chetniks and participants of the great Serbian aggression, I agree, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should not happen to have the same abolised witnesses at the trials of Croatian defenders, as was the case in the case of Laura where those who were participants of the great Serb aggression were later objected and then came to testify against the true Croatian defenders. Not to give an example that we had the situation that the Zagreb County Attorney General Mirko Norc was scheduled as a witness to the trial by Sava Strbec, and only when the lawyer from Osijek Drazen Matijević found out about it had filed a criminal report that if Savo Strbac appeared here that he would have to be arrested then our Croatian County State Attorney gave up on him as a witness instead of letting him go and that he had closed him up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23357	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Predrag Matic. Minister, go ahead for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23358	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here are just a few information related to the presentation of Djurovic's representative. So, yeah, I said if there was any case of a widow who needed it, she'd do it, and believe me, I have a list, it's a much larger number, and you said they'd do it according to administrative procedure. Yes, according to administrative procedure, then someone will appeal to what, a law must be called upon according to that administrative procedure. Secondly, there was a question here about deserter, and I want to explain it. It's about a small number of people, almost all of them can be counted on, it's about a mistake of the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior that in the previous period, that those people who received an impeccable discharge later received them back into the same units or other units, and we simply have to give them the right, without material rights, they simply got the status of defender in the period during which they did it with honor. As for women of 100%, or guardians of 100% HRVIs 1st and 2nd, believe me here, I will invite you to hang out in the Croatian Army's Homeland War next year when they are HRVI 100% 1st group. Their wives for 20 years believe they have a greater right to the status of Croatian defender than many of the ones we have been talking about today. It's been a pain in the ass for 20 years. And she'll find herself now if the defender dies don't give God, and here's our health care working on it, we have world-wide defenders with such injuries dying within 10 years, our boys thank God here and 20 and there will be more. And if it's found, and so far it's 8, there may be another small number missing years, two maximum three, because even the defense attorneys over, the youngest defender is 40 years old, the youngest. So if that's how we're going to help them, and we're going to do it anyway. The 100% HRVI issue, that anything in this country should come into question while I am the defence minister of the 100% HRVI issue will not be found on the Croatian government's agenda. As for the publication of the register, so we said you were wrong, you probably didn't see the address, not sex, but the name, last name, first name of one parent, age, place of birth, belonging to the MUP or the MORH, combat or non-combat sector and number of days. Mr. Dinko Buric, we have open, there will be another section for all those Croatian defenders who, with written consent, want to publish their entire war route, which means in the unit he was in, from when to when. This will be possible at the presentation of the register, the first such data will be presented by Ministers Kotromanović, Ranko Ostojić and my little one, meaning ministers who are related to Croatian defenders. Deleting from the register no, no erasing from the register, no defender who was one day a defender without at least applying to take shares or shares in the Croatian Defence Fund. When it could have been taken, it could have been on this honorable list of Croatian defenders. As for housing, Djakic, Mrs Kosor, academician Reiner said there will be no funds. So no one says there will be funds, there will be as many funds as there are, only this change of law will the defenders who have two or three years of age, volunteers of the Homeland War from the fighting sector be treated as disabled with 20 or 30% and next year, since the New Year's work, the ranking list will come to the ranking list for the assignment of apartments, and apartments and loans will be as much as the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23359	Thank you. We're on our way to replication. First colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23360	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister has said about the rights to deserters or those who have received an impious discharge. We have to give it right, that's the attitude, I quote. Whose question is whose? Have you asked 170,000 volunteers of the Homeland War about that attitude? I'm interested in their attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23361	Replication response, Minister Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23362	Look, I may not be as verbally skilled as you are, so that's the state's position because these people with full right are going to sue the state for why, therefore, there's no question that he's received an impeccable discharge because after two, three years of participation in the Homeland War, he's done something dishonest and was fired rather than asking the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior why you later raised those people, mobilized or volunteered for example. Most often this is the case in a storm where people have been for 7 to 10 days. On this basis, we will give them this right which gives them a status right and no material right. So I'm stressing, all that backwards time and period for which they've been given an impeccable discharge, it still remains in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23363	Replica, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23364	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, from this debate, it's actually visible here that we have two different concepts. One is, of course, that we have an orderly state where you will do the job you're paid for if you find false defenders to delete them, that these lists will be arranged, that people will believe in state institutions. The second is to go this way through the announcement, but that time of publication then, of course, requires, as fellow Djurovic made it clear that everything is then published. And of course there's a risk, it's not a bogeyman, but just one I'd say is a reasonable analysis. Such a procedure will trigger new conflicts among defenders, of course, if it continues to go further by publishing all possible lists even wider. So, actually when I said it was a conflict or those are two different concepts I would say here we should determine if we really want to put that one point on "I" and turn to the future or stay trapped in the past, cause new conflicts. I think we should all agree on the perspective of the future in principle. And I think that these criticisms that come from this side must also be understood in a way that we want to do, and in a way that we can sort out the country and these lists if we have to do more, and that's the job that state institutions have to do, not the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23365	The reply to the replica of Minister Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23366	Thank you very much. Of course I agree with you, Mr. Stier, that we should turn to the future, but in order for a clear view to go into the future, we must not leave our tails behind. It's my attitude and I've been promoting it all these years. The Croatian defenders were the avant-garde of society and the 1990s, we agreed. Well, then use that folk's "clean up in front of your yard so he can name others." If the Croatian defenders publish their list, the honorary list of Croatian defenders will have full rights, and you who are sitting in this House ask for my full support for publishing the users of agricultural incentives, users of various pensions and various donations. We live in the 21st century, you said it yourself. No more secrets, no more UDBA, no more KOS. Those who live in that time, therefore General Gotovina said the war was over, the Homeland War. I've replicated it, and I said, "Let our fathers and grandfathers see each other and let's finish the Second World War, because we're going to have for some, it's going to burn again around those grave research." Right? And that's the same prerequisite that we can turn to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23367	Replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23368	... So not as long as you are a minister, but as long as there is a Croatian state, it must not be touched in law, no matter what the Minister's name is and from which lines he came. [[Specially enabled.]] The right hundred percentage people with disabilities or the right of Croatian defenders. But it doesn't stand a fact and there are right objections when the funds are not provided because when you look at the state budget then it's clear to conclude that we're now on the right paper and we're not providing the funds. This will raise the question I am in favour of giving these rights, but it has to be provided with the means, we will question the exercise of rights and those who have so far had the right to do so. You cannot talk about 140 million kuna being less in the division of Croatian defenders, that it will be the same level of exercise of rights for Croatian defenders. He won't! There's less money, and that's what you should say. But I was against it, and we were saying that even when the budget was against your position, you, as Minister of Croatian Defence, had to fight more vigorously against the fact that Croatian defenders' associations were cut by 2.2 million in last year to finance Croatian defenders' associations from the Homeland War, and that at the same time you saw that the Serbian National Council was given 7 and a half million kuna. For what? Ma to finance the release of that weekly "News" that mocks all Croatian defenders who show their horns the first Croatian president Dr. Francis Tudjman, Minister of Gojko Šushka and the others. That's what we said while HDZ was in power. No one answered back then. Now it goes on and more money is given to them for it. if the savings are for veg, if Croatian defenders must save, then they must save, rather than increase their funds, rather than reduce Croatian defenders' associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23369	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23370	Thank you very much. Mr. Buric, of course I just can't say on behalf of others and those who will come after me to this honorable function. We agree, of course, and I am pleased that the entire Assembly agrees that the rights of 100 percent of Croatian military invalids will not and must not be touched. I assure you that the budget of Croatian defenders will be sufficient to fulfil the basic obligations that lie before the Ministry of Defence regarding Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. Of course, Croatian defenders are not an island and must also bear part of the economic situation and believe that the Ministry of Defence is in the least part of it. It is important to me that permanent rights and all those rights related to Croatian defenders and members of their families will continue to be fully respected and, of course, I can't comment because I can't and I don't have an overview of the entire budget, so who got into financing associations. I assure you that the Homeland War Associations without these two and a half million will also work very well. We established some other kind of cooperation than it was before. Some activities of the association join together, work together, and in this way some funds can be saved, and that two and a half million will not be crucial to the achievement of everything drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23371	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23372	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to rephrase the minister since he said that these wishes that were written in the amendment proposal and the addition of the law that 30, 40,000 volunteers would come to the list and achieve their right of housing. Well, that's the false hope we give them, and I think it will only lead to confusion among Croatian defenders. But we're also going to place these 13 and some thousands that haven't achieved the right to housing yet even more in the position that it's going to be difficult to achieve. They are disabled from 20% to 30% and this is a category that has not achieved its housing care in the most part. The reduction of permanent rights, yes and that is in the budget for 28 million kuna ortites, 28 million kuna are reduced permanent rights and it is actually a significant reduction in that part of the budget. As political parties increase funding by 50 million kuna, as well as the financing of the Serbian People's Council as well as municipalities that do not yet have legal status and for them are planned funds. I don't think there's any logic and there's nothing good about it. What do you say there is no UDBA, KOS, that there are no more institutions to pursue, seek and follow us? Yes, there is. He's got Vukicevic, he's got Nikolic, he's got Dacic. There are those who are constantly concerned and concerned and who will use the Croatian Defence Registry to further write the charges and put certain names in them and then wash and strip. We've seen 60 charges in which your fellow campers, who were forced to sign certain statements, under beatings. We saw there and Mr. Shakespeare who also... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23373	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Matic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23374	Thank you very much. So Mr. Djakic keeps mentioning this number that 30, 40 thousand volunteers will appear. These are people you probably have that number that's about that number of volunteers, they're people who'll get right. The law says that if they don't have any other real estate, the majority of these volunteers are already settled. But even if it wasn't, I don't want to guess, that there are 100 thousand will come to the list yourself you said they compete with 20 and 30 percent of the military disabled, the defender who spent 3, 4, 5 years in the war certainly has health problems perhaps even bigger than the one with 20 and 30% disability. I don't want to measure them, weigh them so you can replicate it to me again. So, they're gonna come up on the list and they're gonna have the right to housing, these guys deserve it just as much as the military disabled, and the money they're going to be. Permanent rights have been observed to fall the most on NOB members who, because of their age, because of their natural drains, are now leaving with an incredible number and those funds that were scheduled to be used for our savings. And once again, that UDJA, KOS, please don't scare the defenders with it. All the data someone wants, you know better than I do that as the Croatian Bank is popularly said in foreign hands, the bank that cares about the interests of Croatian defenders has all the data. We don't have any other guarantee besides their business secrets that they don't share that information anywhere else. Here's an example, if you want to park on Jarun for free, you have to bring your disability solution to someone's aunt. Who's that aunt? Maybe he works for UDBA, maybe he works for KOS? Who knows? But in order for that thing not to pay three kunas to get into Jarun, you have to give your aunt a solution to disability. Don't, for the past 20 years, everyone who wants to know something about Croatian defenders already knows. And in the end about these charges that are constantly being mentioned. So, I've been in the camp, and I'm stressing I don't brag about it many times, all the statements, all of them, all the lawyers know that I'm not a lawyer, so I know, and whoever's a lawyer in particular knows, all the statements, all written, all of them being forced under duress by lawyers without the presence of lawyers, are absolutely invalid. Therefore, the games they play as they are here and said Mr. Cain they have the right to their political problems and let them not in any way endanger Croatian defenders, do not endanger Croatian citizens. We won't worry about their internal political matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23375	Thank you very much. Tomislav Ivić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23376	I hope, Madam Vice President, that you will give me a minute more time to replicate the Minister. Mr. Minister, the dictionary you speak in this Croatian Assembly is absolutely inappropriate for the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. To talk about whether or not the funds are secured is irrelevant, that this will be resolved cannot be spoken by the minister in the Croatian government. When a law is passed, the key thing is to assess the financial impact and it must be expressed. There's no such thing in this law. You say you don't need funds. How can they not be needed? Do you know, Mr. Minister, how many Croatian defenders are there with length of internships in the HV for more than two years? You have no idea about that information. Well, that's 135 thousand people you're going to get based on this proposal that you're proposing the right to housing. And you're saying this country won't cost anything? And it doesn't matter if we have or we don't have any money? So you have no idea how much financial commitment this will create for the Republic of Croatia. I told you that the boredom for the care of Croatian wartime wartime disableds and families of the dead Croatian defenders has been spent from the state budget throughout all these years on 16 billion kuna and only 35,000 cases have been solved. That we still have 13,000 and 100 cases unsolved. And we're still opening up space for who knows what number. I'm not against it, but you need to secure the funds and you do it at all, it doesn't matter to you. And it's incorrect what you say the foreign bank has all the records from the register. No, she only has the information we provided them so they can do their job at the Croatian Defence Fund. And nothing more. They have no record of where anyone was in which unit, during which period, etc. They absolutely don't have that information and don't misinformed the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23377	Replication response, Minister Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23378	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, the dictionary you're using is much more inappropriate for this House, but I will not teach you a lesson like you do to me. I've never told you that you have no idea, although you probably have less idea than I do, but I'm not going to tell you that. So, that you read the draft law on the financial effects of budget breakthroughs is not available. And don't talk again so I'll take your argument that 150 thousand people will appear with a request for housing. I'll say 200 thousand people. And we're going to split up as many apartments and as many loans as we have on that list of 13,000 people as it is now or 130 thousand people next year are going to get 150 people, say. The first 150 thousand people's lists and you know what the better way to solve is, I'm going to end up with this, the first 150 people on the list. You know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23379	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Josip Djakic and Tomislav Ivic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23380	Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. The HDZ Club will not support the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which has been proposed to improve the current good and functional law that is enforceable and for which sufficient resources are provided. Such a law has made a good contribution to the country's system of care and care for the population responsible for creating a free, sovereign and independent and democratic Republic. Efforts to include these amendments and additions to the additional number of volunteers of the Homeland War would even be to welcome the provision of material financial resources in the state budget at the bar of housing. Since this is not the case, we cannot rightly claim that these attempts to extend the right truly dead letter on paper that creates false hope, because while another 13,000 and some defenders are waiting for a residential solution with a loan or a flat assignment while and so the miserable funds in the budget at the position of the Ministry of Civil Engineering have been cut apart from 16 million to 9 and are not enough to complete buildings in construction or to start construction where local units have secured land and infrastructure, and the new 30 to 40 thousand of these 100 and some thousand as we have told volunteers who would have achieved this right will certainly not solve their housing problem by just texting the law that was written. And it will certainly not be in such a way that they will experience the dignity of the said group as well as the dignity of the Homeland War. What they would surely support is the maintenance of grave sites of historically significant persons behind whom there are no living heirs. But you transfer that commendable initiative to units of local self-government not as intermediaries but as debtors who have to provide financial resources for it. Additional divisions of widows of Croatian wartime invalids with 100% damage to the first and second groups and to those who are widows with a lower percentage of Croatian wartime people and cannot qualify for retirement under particularly favourable conditions of age from at least 40 years of age at the time of the death of a Croatian war invalid from the Homeland War and provide them with supplies in time to 50 years when they are entitled to pension under general rules. Therefore, they were brought into an unequal position against the first and second groups of widows of Croatian wartime wartime disabled. The proposed amendments and additions were made to the highest extent to enable the publication of the Croatian Defence Register and the attempt that would certainly not benefit from strengthening the reputation and honour of Croatian defenders, and in particular by strengthening the integrity of the Homeland War, but against new confrontations, criminalisation, division, provoking, lawsuits and applications, primarily for participation in the Homeland War, are rules of the Ministry of Defence as well as for the Ministry of Defence classified by the degree of secrecy. And that degree is classified limited. However, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not state clearly in Article 37 that everyone is guaranteed the security and confidentiality of personal data. Without the consent of the subject, personal data may be collected and processed and used only under conditions prescribed or specified by law. The use of personal data contrary to the intended purpose of their collection shall be prohibited. That is what the Constitution says in Article 37. In the opening explanation of the bill, the proposer points out that there is a legitimate need and the expectation of a large part of the public to publicly publish the list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, while respecting the provisions of the law on the protection of personal data and the laws governing the confidentiality of classification data. I'll interrupt considering here my colleague Ivić will move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23381	Thank you very much. I will nevertheless take this opportunity and welcome all Croatian defenders and thank them for their contribution to the Homeland War and repeat what is true that everyone who sits here knows very well that there were no Croatian defenders that there was no such sacrifice and blood ever of Croatian independence and sovereignty and never of the Croatian state. And it seems to me that all these discussions are particularly about the Croatian Defence Registers are an attempt to impose a dangerous thesis that Croatian defenders are too much and that they are a burden to the Croatian state, which of course is not true. And I would like to say at this point that 380 thousand Croatian defenders and today almost 20 years after the end of the war are working and through the business ensures existence for themselves and for their family and that they are not in any way a burden for Croatian society, that only 70,000 Croatian defenders or members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders are users of the rights of Croatian defenders. Of these, 12000 families of the dead Croatian defenders, so about 58,000 Croatian defenders, are mostly users of different rights. Defendants who do not have HRVI status and do not have certain special rights have the right to share in the fund, have the right to a protected pension but only when they have acquired the conditions of 65 years of age and have the right to receive funeral costs on the burden of the state budget. Here we can see from that what rights are for Croatian defenders. And I'm going to say what's very important, that I believe here in this House no one is against the detection of false defenders and that in the last 8 years, so when the minister was Mrs. Kosor for 5.5 years and 2.5 years as I was Minister of the Ministry has responded to any report of possible abuse of the status of defenders. This was forwarded to the DORH, the MORH, the Military Police, the MUP and that in the last few years more than 2,500 people have been wiped out of the Croatian Defence Register. So we are for verification, we are that the institutions of the system are doing their job, and there is no way that the street decides and determines whether or not someone was a Croatian defender, and that will lead to that. There are several reasons why we're against registering. One of them was also discussed by fellow Djakic, and this is the Constitution and other legal regulations that prevent it. The Constitution guarantees the protection of the privacy of personal data to all citizens, so of course to Croatian defenders. The other reason is security reasons. We are not going to give a list of all members of the Croatian Army, the police and foreign intelligence services and anyone who should never see that list. And another thing that's very important, the security of the defenders themselves. Not all defenders live in the Republic of Croatia, a significant number of Croatian defenders live in BiH, part of them, of course, in Republika Srpska. There are defenders living in the Republic of Serbia as well. You can only assume what the publication of the list will mean when it comes to their own safety. I cannot forget the letter of a Croatian defender who I received as a minister who lived in Republika Srpska in a village where most of course were absolutely Serbian... and who begged and begged not to publish the Croatian Defence Register because then the issue of his safety is absolutely questionable and remains the only possibility for him to move from where he lived until then. And what we've often heard in this debate, that no country has published a similar list. Do you ever expect the United States or Russia or any other country to publish a list of their warriors who fought in Afghanistan, Iraq, Chechnya, etc. It's a matter of national security and serious states of course don't. We are opposed to this bill for reasons we also mentioned, which is housing care. We are not against the possibility of a circle of potential users and the possibility of resolving a housing issue with the help of the Ministry of State, but we must be against it when we see that no kuna in the budget is additionally provided for housing and that it will only create problems in the functioning of both the ministry and the state in the next period. In fact, we pet the defenders' eyes and give them only false hope that they will be able to solve their housing problem. They will not be able to solve it, or they may be able to solve it in 30, 40, or 50 years, and the vast majority of them will certainly not experience it. Taught by what I just said, that over the past 20 years, 16 billion kunas have been set aside, 35,000 Croatian defenders and members of their families have been resolved and that we still have on the list for residential care of 13100 outstanding items, and by opening this possibility we will come safely to 50, perhaps a thousand more of those that need to be dealt with in housing. It's absolutely unrealistic at this point, and people like I said we're just giving false hope that they'll be solved, and they'll never experience it. So, we are against lying and when we passed the law nine years ago, the key urgency was that this law be enforceable and that what the law says is implemented and implemented and all these years it has shown that the law has been real in every respect and that the state of its obligations to the defenders has carried out. That's when it comes to widows. You are proposing to retain the right for widows and after remarrying what is contrary to the Family Law, which is contrary to the Pension Insurance Act, and I am also afraid of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And you won't tell Mr. Minister one significant fact that the community is a widowed community of the Homeland War against this proposal. There was Mrs. Ned Balog, president of the community who explicitly reiterated yesterday that they were opposed to such a legal proposal. I'd like to say, in conclusion, that's what I'm trying to say. This proposal is for one single reason only, the publication of the register regardless of the consequences and damages that the registry will cause. This bill is primarily unserious, because you're extending the rights that will cost billions of kuna and you haven't secured a single lip for it. And you know it will take at least 30 years to achieve it. This is why this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. At the same time, Mr. Minister, except for your own promotion in the ministry, nothing new. No new program, no new activity, none of the promises except this publication register you have not fulfilled. What about the vet hospital? What about homes for Croatian defenders? What about national protection? You said you'd solve it. We can see he's not in the bill. What's with the treasure of Zadro? He's not in this bill either. So, it just remains to cheer the public up, cause new divisions, impose discussions that we should have concluded a long time ago. And as General Gotovina said on that grand welcome, we should all learn lessons from that. The war is over and let's turn to Mr. Minister of the Future. After all this, I think maybe this speech is good and God forgive them, they don't know what they're doing!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23382	Replications to the presentation of Josip Djakic. First Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23383	We are in favour and again I will repeat absolutely for the publication of the register of Croatian defenders and we are in favour of it, because it will reveal not only false defenders whose aim may have been to achieve non-compliance rights but also any false protected witnesses who were used in the political prosecutions of some Croatian defenders, whose false testimony was accepted, and by the Croatian court refused to accept evidence that those persons to whom these protection witnesses were granted were not at all Croatian defenders during the period for which they testified. I'll give you an example without giving you a name. Code name protected witness 06 who, according to the available data, was a Croatian defender in the period from 15 October 1990 to 28 June 1991. And as a false protected witness 06, he testified about the period from September 1st 1991 to December 31st 1991 falsely stating that he was then a member of the Croatian Army. Now, we are in favour of publishing this Croatian, this Croatian Defence Register, because it will also prove that the false protected witness 06 is a common liar, and I am asking another question. He's not the only one. And I ask myself a question, but also to the public, how many such false witnesses used by politics in the Republic of Croatia are in the political prosecutions of some Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23384	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23385	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Buric, I don't know what you're talking about to false witnesses, false defenders. I only know that there are judicial institutions in the Republic of Croatia, if not in Croatia there are internationals that will respect everything you say and how you found out, so it will prove that this false witness is also a false defender. I'm deeply hoping it will prove itself. But why not publish a register? Well, because of you. You gave us an example of how you're pressing charges against me and Ivić that we're false defenders, that we have to prove it completely. Such charges will be thousands, hundreds. We're not ashamed. I'm not ashamed of my participation in the very time you were talking about. I'm not afraid of taking the first Kalashnikov and stepping into the Homeland defense, which I've organized for the defense. And that's why I... my right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You must decide what it is to regulate the order and what it is to you to insinuate and speak. I believe that it's easy for me to defend myself to others. Some will deeply offend it, some will mentally break it, some may raise their hands over such callings and insinuations. Me and Ivić didn't do it. We've proven in legal proceedings what and how it is. But you should be sued for false reporting. And that's possible. And who knows if we won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23386	Replica Josip Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23387	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the thing, I've come forward about some statements, namely the replica of Mr. Djakic, because it's a pity that, in the name of the club and the replicas, he wants to undo one of the positive effects of this good law that is complemented by, he has a good upgrade. So, with these suggestions, the minister. And it all comes down to that defense register. I see everyone here is talking about who the defense attorney is. And I'm a defense attorney, and I'm part of the Homeland War, volunteer. And I'm a little bit let's say even excited when you talk about it. We were witnesses, and when we talked about the budget two days ago, when we talked about... And now I see that the same thing is trying to get through. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You keep accusing us of opening some kind of witch hunt, that we don't know something, we're going to announce, so there's going to be hundreds, thousands of lawsuits, someone's going to raise their hand to themselves. Well, Mr. Djakic's list is similar, I call it a wild list already exists on the Internet, there is. I didn't notice any squadrons of the police, the DORH, the UskoK, as they are already called and arrested people on the street. I'm not, maybe you are. I didn't see that. Don't keep scaring people and accusing us of some kind of witch hunt. That's just not true. It's simple as I'd say it's one of your saws upside down. I will agree with my colleague Đurovic the difference between these 350 thousand and 501 thousand 666 and in me, here I will say in me, the same do not suspect, but justifiably doubt that it is not true. That's the attitude I'm never going to give up and I'll always say it. And that's why I think it's good to finally publish this list even if it's 20 years later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23388	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23389	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I would also respect all these suggestions and attitudes that there really is a legitimate reason to see that can be realized. So far, we have passed laws by consensus when it comes to Croatian defenders, unanimously. No consensus has been reached on this, nor in the associations of Croatian defenders, a consensus has been reached in the users of the current budgets. This is something that's communicable, but it's decided to be the way some people wanted it to be. I repeat, this is a dead letter on paper, none of which will come true. God forbid only those teeth received by the Employment Act to give priority to the employment of Croatian defenders, the penalties that will be applied. That I believe will come true. But there are opportunities there too, given that it's criminal acts, not criminal acts that always manipulate the law. In a number of other things I wish this law could be passed by consensus, that there is enough resources for him to be in a state that is better and more profitable and not this crisis. But why the false hope of waking up to someone who can't achieve it, why create additional costs for him in collecting documentation that he can't get what he expected?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23390	And the replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23391	The Honorable Madam Vice President, so I would like to refer to what is actually absolutely clear, so the honourable representative has already said clearly the Constitution guarantees the secrecy of the data. Thus, by creating a description on which certain data will exist, it will lead to quite a dispute, i.e. a whole series of lawsuits, the Constitutional Court will resolve it, etc. However, the spirit will be released from the bottle, or toothpaste will come out and will not be put back. If the reason is that false defenders are discovered, so all mechanisms exist now, all mechanisms exist. Anyone can actually act and yet all of us real defenders are for it. But all these mechanisms exist now. Nothing's gonna change with the list. I've heard a lot of things here today. I've heard stories about no one standing behind Vukovar. Well, that's just funny. And who organized three convoys? Minister Matic knows very well what I'm talking about. Who organized the support of everything and everything? So, there's a lot of stuff coming up on one side or the other, but we're going to go to the core of the thing that's what it's all about. If it's because of the false defenders, there are other mechanisms. I haven't heard anything like what several people have suggested to publish a list of aggressors, or those who are abolized for armed rebellion. What are we gonna do about it? There's no explanation about that. Therefore, it is very clear to say, and certainly we must not compare it to what I think has slipped the minister with the list of incentives etc. I don't think he or I think that the list of defenders is equal to the list of incentives from agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23392	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23393	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here are fellow MPs and vice president of the Croatian Parliament, so I have to say that false defenders are a saying that this population wants to be constantly stigmatized, which wants to get in the way and where it wants to be caused by a constant suspicion. Not only with them and their accusations, but also with Croatian citizens, and especially with Croatian enemies who are keeping awake our moves that are not good, and they are in favour. And be sure I don't scare and scare anyone in this country of Croatia, with charges and anything but fear for them. I fear that they will happen, I fear new applications, I fear new persecutions, I fear new closures, I fear those who control the border, I fear for those who visit their relatives and I can stay there in a prison of investigation. They're the reason I'm scared. It is objectively possible and it is feasible to publish. So maybe someone will welcome him to a prison in Republika Srpska or Serbia for Christmas, or stop him passing by when he goes somewhere to Macedonia and somewhere near relatives. Other people who wish to achieve jobs in other countries will also harm them. The publication of the register will damage them because some do not respect Croatian defenders, and they may be employed there. We could find our existence there. And we have these because 30 thousand Croatian defenders are unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23394	Replica follows the presentation of his colleague, Ivić. The first one is Joseph Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23395	Thank you very much. Well, here's the other day and here, there's been a lot of talk about saying in this Croatian Assembly, a little bit of attention to words and that. Well, here's Mr. Ivić, at one point, you said on the War Veterans Committee and here for this pay phone, so I don't think he's gonna be able to judge or anything. Well, of course they won't judge the street. Among other things, this is a law on the dignity of Croatian defenders. Well, of course we won't let the street judge Croatian defenders. But look now you're talking the street and a few days ago when we talked about tax again we talked about citizens we talked about taxpayers, we didn't talk about the street and these are the same citizens of tax bonds that you now call the street and I don't know that. And it's normal that these are citizens who are filling this country's register and they expect the government minister to do something about it. They're not streetmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23396	The reply to the replica Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23397	Thank you very much. I am convinced that what I said will happen is that the street will decide whether someone was a Croatian defender or not, and you will see what discussions will happen in Croatia when the Croatian Defence Office is published by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What happened two years ago when who knows who published the quasi-fals register of Croatian defenders caused only such debates, and you will now see what kind of debates will happen. You will see what will be done and what image will be shown by Croatian defenders and I wonder if we all need it. What will be the benefit of the publication of the register and what will be the damage? Is that what the Minister and Government are thinking about? There won't be any use for that, and the damage will be huge.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23398	Next replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23399	In your debate, you said that there is no example in the world, so you listed the United States and they will not publish their register of warriors in Afghanistan. Croatian defenders did not fight outside the Republic of Croatia, Croatian defenders do not now publish the register of our participants in war operations in Afghanistan. And of course there's no need for the U.S. to publish anything about it at all. In addition, they had inside that they had inside the United States what we had in Croatia during a time such as the Homeland War be safe to announce those who were for and who were against. But there's something else I'd like to point out. You said no one was against the detection of false defenders. Well, that's what you said means you admit that there are false defenders in that register of Croatian defenders. And I have to say when we talked about those dates, here's what I'm curious about is how to say you have the status of Croatian defenders before Mr. Seks or before Mr. Glavas. They've had since the 15th of October 1990, and you've had since the 1st of September 1990. Where did you fight this before Mr. Shakespeare and Mr. Glavas in the Republic of Croatia? And Mr. Djakic, you said I was attacking you, no, no, I'm interested, but the citizens of Djakov, for example, are interested in the citizens of Djakov. There is a real fear, you will have to explain to the citizens and you are in fact afraid of it, to the citizens of Đakov how that I did not want to call you, you said yourself, the status of Croatian defender in a unit that did not exist at all, that you were defending Croatia in the command zone of Đakovo 15th Kolovoz 1990, and that unit founded in 1992. I understand your fear when you come to Djakovo how you'll explain to the Djakovites who you made them from and where you defended the 15th Kolovoz 1990s in Djakov. And honor all those who are of the 5th Kolovoza 1998. pride of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23400	Thank you, fellow Buric. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23401	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure in Article 216 of Col. Buric insulted me and addressed me in his replica instead of his colleague Ivić. I just want to warn you that you should have interrupted it since it insinuates and deceives the Croatian public with its own step and did not give it a line to me but to Mr. Ivić. I was Mr. Buric in a militia that regulated Đuro The Boy's command when he became commander of the Djakovo Assembly Area. You don't understand that, so of course when you were mobilized into the Croatian army. You don't understand what they were. ... We can discuss this because we know a little more about you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23402	Please, fellow Buric, you have no word. It is not uncommon that even through replicas, the Rules of Procedure are not respected, so they address others, but through the violation of the Rules of Procedure you had a replica and we will ignore each other. The reply to the replica is Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23403	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You are obviously forgetting the fact that the Croatian army fought outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia under the Tudjman-Izetbegovic agreement, that troops of the Croatian armies were legally at war in neighbouring BiH. It is true that I said that we are not against the detection of false defenders and that the fact that false defenders have, and no one is slow about it. But we're in favour of the institutions of this country that are competent to do this job and that's our position. We are not for the half-percent or 1% rise to the feet of the entire population, that 500 thousand Croatian defenders are brought under suspicion and that each of them will generally need and have to prove its "independence". For this we make both the Morh and the DORH and the MUP very easy and very simple check for each of those for whom there is doubt. And I said that we have been doing it for the past eight years and that only every application has been submitted anonymously or signed to the appropriate addresses and that 2500, slightly more than 2500 Croatian defenders have been deleted from the list of Croatian defenders on the basis of such checks. And finally, my colleague Buric, for me, the standard of value and the basic criterion of which everything in life is not Mr Branimir Glavas, and you check everything about my war route. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23404	colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23405	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, fellow Ivić, speaking of the reasons why he thinks that as a list of personal data, the Register of Croatian defenders should not actually be published in accordance with the Constitution, the provisions of the Constitution, if you want the value of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because the name and name of each of us is our personal data and if it is published on a common list, then each of us must therefore give approval. When we published the Register of Croatian Defences in 2005, and then I said it was a shame that by 2005, no one had the courage or the strength to make that list because the former minister whose ministry's leadership took over had the beginnings of the Croatian Defence Register, so the list with the same elements and the same number that we came to, but he locked it in a drawer when he realized that this list would actually be what it would be. It took some courage to do so. So when we published the register, I reported to me as a foreign minister, I think a hundred defenders, and when the debate began about the announcements they asked for by name and last name, signed, especially by defenders living abroad, by demanding that their name and last name never be published in the register. For this, guidance is a number of reasons, especially for defenders who lived abroad at the time and who wrote for example. My employer doesn't know that I was a defense attorney and I don't want him to know that I was a defense attorney. It's an honorable period in my life, but that book is closed. That's what one of the Croatian defenders I quote wrote. So that's what this is all about, it's different people's fates. And when we talk about the street that's going to be tried, yes, we're differently built and we stand different meals and for someone who's an honorable Croatian defender in whom someone who has no idea about the war or the register or the Homeland War but what the defenders are doing is pointing at you and saying you're a false defender. While this defense, while I prove it with a different constitution, someone can really at that moment raise their hands to themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23406	Replication response, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23407	And as far as I'm concerned, just here's a sentence, Madam Vice President, a demagogy about it if some defense attorney gets to some charge and gets to jail on the basis of the publication of the register, then I'll go in his place, ladies and gentlemen. Let's not talk about it that way, it's killing the rule of law...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23408	My colleague! My colleague, I've been warned to let go before... Look. [[Speaks at the same time, doesn't understand.]] Replication response, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23409	Thank you very much. Of course, I agree, Mrs. Kosor, with everything you've said, and the fact is that the creation of the Croatian Defence Register was necessary among other things and courage. I also believe that it is a shame that we received the Croatian Defence Register only in 2005, so 10 years after the end of the war, and this issue could have been resolved much earlier and should have been resolved much earlier and all this debate that we are having today, and it mainly comes down to the question of the Croatian Defence Register, I think it might be possible to come to the question whether we believe in the institutions of the Croatian State or not. Why do I say that? Because the register was created as a document from the data that the Croatian institutions had. MORH and MUP united into one base purified and eventually published and no one at the Croatian Defence Ministry has ever obtained the status of Croatian defence attorneys, nor has it been obtained at the Croatian Defence Ministry. The work was done by the MUP and the MORH, the status recognition was done by wartime commanders from the level of combat, brigades, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23410	Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23411	Dear colleague, I'm not one of those MPs who doesn't mind taking hard words when it comes to debates, and this is one of the topics in which I'm going to sink. And there has been one date since I was personally warned and many others have been warned, and that was the verdict of Croatian generals. She witnessed how important the Croatian citizens are to the Croatian Homeland War. I already spoke in the Croatian Parliament once after that, the second day Zagreb breathed more freely, there were more people on the street, people started laughing. This is not a place where we can argue and share the Croatian people, and we share them, we use hard words, so we call the citizens on the street because when they discuss the Homeland War in a way that we don't like, then they are streets, then they are not citizens which is not true. I'm for publication of the register. I've been arguing with a few colleagues who have argued that they are against the announcements and I totally understand them. I am disappointed in this debate with civil society associations that have not advocated those defenders who oppose the publication of the register with arguments that they do so in any other group of Croatian societies. So these civil society associations didn't want to protect those who didn't want to be published. Therefore, we must respect the rights and those who do not want to publish the Defence Register. I don't have time to explain why I'm here for the announcement. I've spoken several times, but I respect the remarks of those who are against the publication of the register. And another thing. Here is an assessment in the debate that, apart from the promotion of Minister Matic, nothing else is going on here, only the promotion of Mr Matic. I think it's an insult to Mr. Matic. I don't need to defend him. The man was also a defender, who suffered in Serbian camps. And I don't think we should use such words, we shouldn't share Croatian people Don't interrupt me because I've been watching 40, 50 seconds you've been giving except when the Labourists are at stake, then you're giving less [[Thank you. The reply to the replica Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.]] We had to do research among the defenders and see at least a 10, 20,000 sample so we could have more precise data. [[Intruder Zgrebe: Here you already have 34.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23412	Here you go, colleague Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23413	Thank you, dear colleague Vuksic. I was when I said what would happen after the publication of the register, and that's exactly what you're saying that you're also against it, that there's going to be a division. There will be divisions of colleagues in both the defence population and the general population, and that is not good. I think the story of the Homeland War should have been concluded long ago and turned to much more important and important problems that we have as a society at this point. That's true. And we keep going back to '91. but also in '71. and in '41, and the problems go right past us. I didn't want to, nor was it my intention to offend Mr. Matic especially by esteeming his contribution as a Vukovar defender and a victim. But I didn't say nothing was done in the ministry. In fact, it's been done in the ministry, it's always been done. But I said what's true. No new programs, no new activities. And he asked what happened to the vet hospital, what about the retirement homes, what about the people's protection, what about the "Glory Zadro" medal that was so pompously announced, and we can see it's not in this bill's proposal. That was the essence of my discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23414	Replica Zeljko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23415	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's what I'd like to discuss with my colleague, I'd just like to take a brief look around. In their speech, in some ways they put themselves in another plan or in some ways demeaning and underestimating the new measures that are being taken by this amendment and by supplementing the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. More favourable conditions for a family pension as regards the years of age of widows of the deceased Croatian military invalid from the Homeland War 1st and other groups who were granted the right to an allowance for the assistance and care of another person. Recognising the right to supply the widows of Croatian wartime war invalids from the Homeland War in case they are not granted the right to a family pension under the general pension rule. In our opinion, it's an improvement in this good law that's been so far. It's actually something we noticed that should be improved. And it's not a cover about publishing a register. Each of us has the right to express his opinion on the publication of the register, but none of us here have the right to talk about all the defenders. Because I've talked to at least 50 of my colleagues, if not a hundred who have been with me in units and shared opinions. But I have to tell you that most of them, most of them with the ones I talked to, I'm building up, were for publication of the register. That's one thing. Another thing my colleague Buric said. It's not good to mention America, Russia and other countries about this. We defended our homeland, we didn't attack anyone, and that's one story about the intervention of the Americans in Iraq, Afghanistan, the Russians in Afghanistan. Whether it was under the auspices of the UN or not it makes no sense for us to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament. And since we're only at clubs, if there was just a single debate coming up, I would appeal to all my colleagues that when we talk about talking calmly and not calling each other out, we wouldn't bring it down to a personal level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23416	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23417	Thank you very much. My colleague, I wasn't critical of how you say it with new measures. I don't see those new measures. I was saying it was absurd, and I mean it, and now I'm proposing housing for not knowing how many thousands and thousands of cases because we didn't see it from the bill, and none of it was secured. And it is scandalous, that in the Croatian Parliament a law is proposed that we do not know what these consequences will be. And that should be crucial. In the light of the law, it must write how much money will be needed in the state budget to secure. And what number of people will be solved? It's not there. That's why I was critical. As for the publication of the register. If a Croatian defender has problems with the publication of the register when crossing the state border or something like that, if a case of the arrest of the Croatian defender is repeated, then we have done irreparable damage. Remember the trauma the entire society was going through over the Purda case. No one here mentions that Mr. Veljko Maric was arrested in Belgrade's casamat the day after he published that fake register. By then, he had crossed the Croatian-Serbian border countless times and nothing had happened to him. When the false register was published, it was the first time since then that borderline and was arrested. Do we want it to be a Croatian daily? Ministers don't mean anything by your statement I'm going to go to jail instead of any defense attorney who's having trouble going to jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23418	Thank you very much. Replica, Vice President Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23419	Here I agree with my colleague Ivic and with his debate, but I would like to express my regret that here is the lack of the possibility of fulfilling the pre-election promises, so this way one Croatian defender, Minister Matic, agrees to expose all Croatian defenders to the public court, the court of the street. Because it also enables those who are well-intentioned, who really want to determine the exact number of defenders and their status, but also enables those who were not defenders to participate in the Homeland War, to those who have no idea that they are accusing and that they are in some way calling the participants of the Homeland War our Croatian defenders. So, every statement by anyone in the Republic of Croatia will cause a check of the status of any Croatian defender, and here we see these replicas of defenders here in the Croatian Assembly in small how it will look when defenders start calling each other about dates when, who was the first, who was the second, who was the third, who was when he joined the Croatian Army. And I actually believe this is not good for the defense population. Besides, I don't know why they don't get published, nobody thought to publish a list of students, a list of all pensioners, a list of users of any rights, and it's always interesting to go to Croatian defenders here and we had an example when the former, one of the former ministers, Minister Pancic went into business with the so-called. "false" defenders, which caused it in the defense population. And this allows you to keep doing it this way. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23420	The reply to the replica Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23421	I agree, colleague Culjak, with you in what you said, but apparently it may be someone's goal and the goal of what happens after the publication of the register. To distract the public from the right topics and from the real problems experienced by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to one, I would say a secondary track and thus escape from the real problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23422	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Mladen Novak. ... I'm sorry, the minister asked for it earlier on behalf of the motionor. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23423	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is the end when the biggest opposition party has finished its presentation so let's be honest in all these 10 amendments to the laws that are absolutely positive and affirmative the whole story comes down to the Croatian Defence Register. I'm against lying, but I really see that you really don't function in another way and here's just to start with Mr. Ivic's presentation that he said, and I quote, "Over 2.5 thousand defenders have lost their status." This is a document from the Department of Defense last June, so a relatively frigid document, 620 defenders were removed from the defense list, please and have someone write down not a lot of numbers. The D.O.D. has abolished 23 statuses. The interior ministry signed last year, which was Mr Tomislav Karamark, has not even mentioned the last eight years but since '97. To this day, 89 cases. When you add that up, that's number 732. A lot less than 2.5 thousand. It's just about how much it's talked about when something's trying to pump up and when there's something special that wants to be emphasized. I'm sorry I didn't bring an e-mail, Mr. Ivić and Mrs. Kosor who were ministers know, with all due respect, what it's like to work with Homeland War Associations. People are told a saying of a hundred people, which is surprising, for a good part of the Homeland War Association is worth a hundred men, one hundred twenty-five wonders because I have in my office, and I can bring this honorable Parliament to look at, so of the same widows two e-mails. We support what you want to do about widows and then three days later the same signature and from the same email address we do not support what you want to do. So, and we said here and we realized that it's a right that someone can use if they don't want to, and if they don't, they won't. We've already said that a hundred times. I'm sorry there's no Rainer academics phenomenally gave me the creamworth to say so, and there it is, he said we're not comparing agricultural incentives to the list of defenders, the users of agricultural incentives with the list of defenders. So, ask the boys in Slavonia, and this was created by this famous expansion of the list where, for example, when the defender is mentioned here, they don't have much of a right, I agree that they don't have some rights and most of us live in buildings we don't even have gardens, let alone agricultural land, the Croatian defender has the advantage of renting state land. Ask the boys in Slavonia how 90-year-olds with the status of Croatian defenders, I don't know what he did when he was 70 and a few years old defends, gets agricultural incentives, gets the country. Mr. Marasovic was here, so I don't see him anymore, so it's true for you academics, Croatian defenders should first clean up in their backyard and then we'll find out all the other lists. I agree, too. What's the secret? Here we have established the list of students, the list of workers, the list of peasants, the list of partisans, the list of Ustashas, Chetniks, the domain. I don't have any ideological or any kind of problem not to publish it. As for the ministry's work, well, a little bit later and the former minister is... I invite him at any time he can come, and in the end line of the year we will have a report and before that or we will have a report on the things carried out in a2012. The distinction of the Order of Homeland Honor The Treasure of Zadar does not belong to this law he goes to the Law of Features and Confessions, so he will also come to order and it is his turn. Ms. Kosor's esteemed representative is often known to me but I don't know for what reason but it is the right to give for example so I said figuratively but also really if I can leave I'll go instead of every Croatian defender to prison, and how do you best know examples then I'll tell you that through an example. So Ivo Sanader is in jail for others, and for himself, but also for others, means proof that he can be for others. And now I'm going to end up being the distinguished representative Ivić who said God forgive them for not knowing what they're doing with what I'm only not sure about what they did to us whether they know or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23424	My colleagues and colleagues, please refrain from these reactions. We have 10 replicas, please, all of you who are replicating and answering to stick to the time of two minutes really still have a lot to discuss and a lot to do in the course of today. The first replica of her colleague, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23425	Thank you very much. Well, here's the Honorable Mr. Minister to see that we're not just talking about the Defense Register, I'm wondering when you'll reach an adequate agreement with the juvenile defenders, whether it'll be until the second reading. I'm also interested in the Imotski village, which is what the Imotski defenders told me there was a village that was built in the village of Bage where there were 24 apartments, in '98 they started to build, 11 years already nothing was done. And you know very well, and we all know how many apartments are missing in Imotsky. So when are these apartments in the village of Bage going to start building? Also from 2005 to 2011, 12 thousand defenders died most of them from cancer or strokes. These are defenders who have died in areas that are extremely affected by the war, whether or not you intend to do something to talk to those defenders about maybe getting free checks because they are really threatened. You can tell from this that somewhere since the Homeland War, 20,000 of them have died. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23426	The reply to the replica of Minister Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23427	Thank you very much. Honorable and distinguished MPs. So on the subject of underage defenders, believe me, I'm very familiar with this problem and we couldn't meet them. In fact, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers does not distinguish defenders by age or by gender or by height or by weight from minors, the only positive discrimination between minors is when assessing disability for the same disease or the same injury as the adult defender, the minor gets a 10% to 30% higher assessment. So we felt that the introduction of a special category of juvenile defenders into Croatia's law for Croatian defenders would achieve nothing positive, and potentially could cause some problems by introducing the law of that category. In fact, we are all aware that underage defenders participated in the Homeland War, that they were a certain number and a beautiful number, but we also know and they know that since then it's very difficult to separate those who were really on the front line and were carrying a rifle and of those boys who had the greatest reach in the defense internship to leave us and to bring us water or anything else, without underestimating and it was worth something. To work on these Bags. I've never been there, but I've heard of this problem of the building, and we've already gone to reconnaissance, and we've got to make a mockery of that building. It's now that neither in heaven nor on earth has been completed nor incomplete, and that I've already talked to Minister Vrdoljak about it, now Mrs. Taritash is taking care of the fact that this building is finished in the condition in which it is truly inappropriate. And as far as these reviews are concerned, and the previous ministries have been doing systematic examinations of certain categories, so we go from year to year. And next year, we're gonna make a deal with the state whether or not we should do some private clinic research and see a certain category of defense attorneys. Perhaps this year or now we will be going to campers to compare whether in a certain number of the campers' populations and a certain number of other categories of citizens, whether there is a difference in the improvement is primarily thought of carcinogenic diseases.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23428	Thank you very much. Dinko Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23429	Now I must first replicate what you last said, Mr. Minister, with all due respect, we must be careful not to underestimate the contribution of everyone and this underage defender. Listen, for me, the contribution of a minor defender who wore even water as grenades fell is far greater than those who received acts of brigade or generals in the offices. I therefore do not underestimate their contribution. But at the beginning of this reaction, you have now said and listed and provided certain information about how many institutions have identified so-called. false defenders and wiped them out. And it's true and fellow Ivić when he said the institutions will do their job and that's true. Let the institutions do their job. But why are we here for the publication of the Croatian Defence Register? So just so that citizens and comrades, those actual members of the HV unit, when they can be announced to the institutions, there's no better court than the court to point out, this isn't the place because I know it wasn't there. ... I'm sorry, it's not true that there were 500,000 of us. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If there were 500,000 of us, we'd end up at Zemun's, what's wrong with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23430	Next replica, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23431	Vice President, just the whole dispute is exactly what Mr. Buric now said how many of us there were, how many of us were gone. In fact, we've heard here the thesis that it's about historical counterfeits, about suspicions that there's been so much. The minister said that 150,000, so 30% after the war they volunteered as defenders. I ask you this, will after the publication of this register if it gets published or when it gets published, then will we agree that this is the number that will be in that register? My answer is that we won't, simply because we don't have a deal that's a battle record, which is a non-combat composition that gets into the defense list, and that's the key to the problem. Other countries, take if we call on NATO, if we call on the United States, you always have the same medal only in different colors, whether it is a member of a combat or non-combat, not a medal, but for participation in action. That's what the key is. Thus, without it, we will only lead to even more discord and even more disagreements. It was supposed to be solved before, not during these times when these problems open up. And the reasons, since the Homeland War, have been a problem with Croatian defenders who did not, or from the fighting sector, disputed not those who were in the non-combat sector not to participate in the war, that they were not defenders, but were asking for this difference to be established, that this difference exists and that this difference is manifested and, in my opinion, it should have been done in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23432	Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23433	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. This is where they talk all the time about the number of people in the register. I know defenders who are not in the register, who are defenders, who could have been in the register and what Professor Tudjman was saying was absolutely certain that the story would not be finished after that, although there are no more legal opportunities to apply to that list, or to exercise the rights of defenders. One thing you said several times, which is that the list of defenders is your pre-election promise. That's the weakest argument. Which is why, because the Kukurik coalition has made so many promises that it has not made, the promise to make a better life, the promise that there will be new jobs, the promise that there will be a fairer society, but everything should not be broken through the defenders, that it will be the only promise that will be fulfilled. Try to understand from this debate the arguments you disagree with, install into the final version of the law, and I think you'll do a good deed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23434	Next line, Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23435	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. I did that 2500 people who were deleted from the register, of course, that I didn't pull out of my finger, but based on the documentation that existed and still exists in the Ministry of Croatian Defence. So ask your officers there to deliver that file. I know before the end of my term, I was just looking for that data. And secondly, look at the other materials you have at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, and then the debate on these problems will certainly be much more effective. If you had shared this analysis with all MPs from the Croatian Defence Register and given them an insight, and you have this in the Ministry and this list of all military units with the number of people that went through these units, I think today's debate would be much, much shorter and that it would be certain to end this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23436	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23437	Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, you have referred to what I said about the comparison with the incentives for agriculture and defenders. I said it as an example precisely because I think that comparison is inappropriate on the one hand, and on the other hand just wanting to explain what I'm about to do again, and that's the very publication of the list of defenders will actually not achieve any other goal down to the continuation of such discussions. Now we've been taking them there for a few hours, they're going to be running for days and hours to discuss who he was, who he wasn't, who he was, who he wasn't, etc. What's the point of that? If the goal is to discover and I repeat the alleged false defenders so there are all mechanisms to do it now, you don't need... the same as the list of those incentivists in agriculture won't solve the problem whether they all got the right incentive or didn't get it. That won't solve the problem. It's a key question all over the story, and it's gonna be a problem. The fighting and non-combat sectors are constantly mentioned. I'll say again, several hundred doctors and several thousand volunteer medical technicians from the first day were on the front lines of the battlefield. They're all in the non-combat sector, and now that someone's going to look at the list and they're going to say what you or your dad or mom are telling me that you were in '90, '91. You've been there, you've been there, you've been there, you've been sitting somewhere in a chair, in a hospital far from the front, you've never seen anything. They're all in the non-combat sector. How's that gonna echo out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23438	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23439	Here's to this last respected academic, so how it's going to go out there, you should've dealt with it before. So there was a possibility. Now, this more change is a combat, non-combat impossible because over 60% of the defenders have raised their stakes, and the stakes have been shared by these points related to sectors and at the time of participation in the Homeland War, but it is never a problem to correct. The question in the register that is fundamental, you were or you weren't. That's what the defenders want to know if anyone was, here's what Mr. Buric said, I hope I'm not misunderstood. I'm saying, some underage defenders were carrying a gun and some water. And he's wearing water. He's on the list. No one will weigh his day for him whether he wore water or destroyed tanks that day. The question is for defenders, you were or you weren't. It doesn't even matter which unit. Each unit contributed. We've had checkpoints in Vukovar that haven't been exposed for one day, not a single pedestrian and tank attack, which doesn't mean they have a smaller contribution than those others who've had every day. That's how their beans fell. But here, as far as the register is concerned, here's why you weren't at first. So you also have in law a definition of why the register is being published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23440	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23441	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here you are, Mr. Minister, when you say that defenders will separate the wheat from the weeds in their population, I'm sure they can't agree with you, because they're neither competent nor competent to separate the wheat from the weeds. The institutions of the Croatian State, the Croatian ministries that created the records of the participants of the Homeland War, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior are these relevant factors that can be combed through their services, which can call witnesses and participants commanders and all of them. The way you're doing now to make the publication of the register publicly available to everyone in my book is like hanging a register on every board and everyone who wants to comb and record it, yeah, this one's not, this one's not. Finally, I would like to emphasise your initiative and the adoption of the register will cause lawsuits, investigations of all war forces commanders, all those honorable people who will be brought into an awkward situation because of some personal grudges of individuals or frustrations of individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23442	The reply to the replica of Minister Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23443	Your Honor, I can agree with everything you've said, except for your first sentence, because here in your first sentence, you're imputing me that I told you that defenders would separate the grain from the weeds. There's a lot of people here, so somebody says where and when I say it. Therefore, the Croatian Defence Ministry will publish the Croatian Defence Office. Point. I've already said that five times. And as President Mesic says, institutions should do their job if they think and should do their job. We haven't said a single moment here, we suspect there were so many defenders. But no one here has said that there are so many false defenders. Then grab on to the theory of no fakes, no real ones and no fake cripples,... He's not disabled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's just verbally that acrobatics. The main thing is that the register is the most honorable list that can exist in the Croatian state, and those who find it will be the most honorable persons of this country, and those who find themselves there, and they do not belong to shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23444	Tink Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23445	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I think the debate that goes on goes on is more and more talking about what's supposed to be the point. The debate goes about in the direction that we started different bickerings, I don't know from party level to personal, to political. For what? Why don't we start by saying that every man has a head to think about, and exactly what we've been fighting for, so I dare say that among others called Croatian defenders is called democracy and human rights. And why should I be I don't know I won't say stupid, it's a hard word, but why should someone manage what's called my pride. Why should someone write me down on some list so that I feel less, more or less knows no pride at all. Why would I be less honored if I wasn't up for my name being on that list publicly published? Which is why someone else needs to give me that license and say, "Now you can be proud." For what? Well, it's enough for me to know my chacha and my son for a start. And will you know as my colleagues, friends, or someone really not that important to me, but it doesn't matter to me. Let's get out of this, and then maybe we'll come up with some common ultimate goal that will satisfy all the structures in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23446	And the last replica of her colleague, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23447	Madam Vice President, well, I answered because Mr. Matic spoke directly to me, so I'd like to say in this replica I want to be quite calm. And Mr. Matic, being a minister of Croatian defenders is an opportunity that is indicated by rare ones. It's an extremely important, extremely important and honorable job. So saying again about how here you are willing to go to prison instead of someone else, instead of some other defender, is let me say it this way to mock the rule of law. Because you know as well as I do and everyone in this House that it's impossible, that you can't go instead of someone else to prison, even if any of your actions cause or be the cry of some beginning of persecution to anyone and be the Croatian defender. So in this way my opinion is that you mock yourself and the defenders when you say that instead of someone who's going to be convicted, I'm going to go to jail. And bringing into the context of the debate on Croatian defenders and the verdicts, i.e. the charges coming from Serbia, bringing into this context the verdict of any person convicted of taking bribes, who was convicted of corruption, I think it is absolutely and totally unacceptable. But it's your style, always on the surface, at some level of random file that doesn't have to be funny to anyone, cynicism as superficial as it was to your many observations about Claudia Schiffer. You're doing a serious job, you're doing a very serious job, and you're doing a very serious job, and you're doing an honor that's been given to rare people, and you've been my associate for a while, and you've been an associate of Dr. Njavre, you've been as far as I know in the Central Command and you could, you've had opportunities to point with your finger as well, but also by reporting to DORH and USKOK to false defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23448	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replication response, Minister Matic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23449	Yeah, what do you say when I'm so cynical? Thank you first for teaching me, I didn't know until now, even though you were following me, and you're following all my performances, so I'm sure all the ministerial posts in the government are the most honorable, and I have to say the hardest you know, as well as my colleague Ivić, is that this is the hardest place. And I also see here how long this debate is going on. But you didn't understand or I know better that you understand, you just pretend you don't understand, but you kind of insinuate and encourage something. So, all I said about going to jail I know you can't legally do it, but if someone's gonna satisfy it, I'm gonna strike hunger here while someone's in jail. However, I want to tell you that you insist that someone is going to get hurt, and then you'd better leave and maybe you'll fill me in, and I'm going to be cynical again, and I'm not going to say better, and no one is going to be prosecuted except for any war crimes offenders, and we've already said that a million times and in this House and in public, some of the things in the Homeland War that we're ashamed of, which we're not proud of, are not being honored. To me as a Croatian defender, some of them are no longer colleagues, I do not recognize them as colleagues and should respond. And if they will be stopped somewhere at the border then it is just a rain and a shame of the Croatian state that has not responded to certain things. There was a name here called one defender who I don't know if Mr. Ivić is nice when things match up but it's more like watching movies, thrillers and stuff. So Veljko Maric certainly is not, certainly not as Mr Ivić claims he is, I say he is certainly not stopped at the Serbian border because he is a Croatian defender. Croatian defenders are in Serbia and are doing business and going there and there are no problems. That someone will have a personal possibility of discomfort that's never been ruled out. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23450	Thank you. And now I invite my colleague Mladen Novak on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – Labour Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23451	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. Well, as was assumed to be an amendment to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, in the end, it was mostly reduced to talking about the Defence Register. The conclusion is that it was a pre-election promise to the Kukurik coalition, normally without a warpath and without all the details that are, let's say, unpublishable, or not similar to publishing. However, I am asking myself a question, i.e. I am asking the Minister a question, he has already answered the possibility of raising these possible lawsuits against the state, against the Ministry of Release of Some Information, which even among other things, the Constitution says there is a part that let's say privacy protection. I'm not quite sure if it goes into one or the other, I have doubts as to what my colleague Milas would say about why someone should publish some of my data if I didn't agree to that, but I think, in general, watching the Defence Registry should be published. I received a text during this debate saying that a monograph of the '90-'92 Pestnica was published. Where it is published, where all members of the Homeland War are included, members of the 99th Brigade plus if I am not mistaken, 2 thousand members of the National Protection. There was no objection to that, and all those who were published in that monograph are all proud of it. Therefore, it is obvious that a large part of the population is proud to see its name in the published materials, whether a part of it wants its protection not to be published probably exists, but I hope now that the ministry has obtained, that is, a large enough number of opinions from those who are covered by this publication and that no one will be able to say in the end that it is the opinion of a man or a smaller group of people. I don't see it in her sense if she's published for publication. Unfortunately, there's been a debate where it turns out that this announcement that I don't say evidence against some who are false defenders, and if there are, there are them, so someone on this side even said that I think prof. Reiner is missing what's important, which is that the rule of law is doing its part of the job. If there's any knowledge that someone was a false defender, although I think they're even more contentious, they're fake military people who exercise far greater privileges, and they're just generating privileges because it can't belong to you if it's based on false testimony, and if it's a real military disability, then he doesn't have a privilege, then he has something that belongs to him. But if it's a lie, then it's a privilege that doesn't belong to it by law. What's still in this law definitely and I agree with that, I think it's Professor. Tudjman mentioned divided into combat and non-combat sectors. This division of the combat and non-combat sector, as far as I know, is published only in some regulation, at least I have not found it anywhere by now, and the law knows only the one who has achieved the status of defenders and is said to be the Croatian defender of the Homeland War of persons who have been organised to defend independence and territorial integrity, or sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Under this means armed resistance to the aggressor and action in direct connection with it." Now, frankly, in my opinion, we should introduce a new status that is a part of the Homeland War because the issue is also being raised in the non-combat sector. I don't know what's going on, though, but if the administrative staff of the MUP or the MORH were in Pula or Varazdin, then I'm asking the question of what kind of status the Sunja residents should have. Sunja was practically an enclave surrounded by the enemy on three sides, on one side was Sava, who was very often insurmountable, and precisely because the civilian population remained there, the Sunja was defended. What is the contribution of these civilians who have no status under this law? What irritates me is this law, but with it is the practice that this government has introduced. Yesterday we heard from this pay phone call to the citizens to report those who cheat on the state based on taxes, then we heard the other day the introduction of a fiscal cash register text you get 500 kuna. I hope you don't bring in 500 kuna of stimulation for whoever reports a false defense attorney. Also mentioned are the incentives in agriculture, the principle of the work of this government, although it may be really inappropriate to put them in the context of this topic, there have been abuses in the use of incentives and let's cut them down. Is that the way to solve the problem? Apparently the government doesn't have the guts for us to have the power to go to battle with something that's illegal where there are irregularities and illegalities and ultimately classical crime. Obviously, these state-owned institutions that are supposed to be doing the basic job aren't really dealing with it. What does the status of a defense attorney bear? And I think it's also a little bit of a fam being created, so it turns out that the defender's own status as a defense attorney is a lot of privileges. Living care, priority in employment, I don't know some other things are mentioned. Honestly, I believe that the vast majority of defenders have never benefited from that in their lives. I don't know, it's my impression that maybe I'm wrong colleagues I'm talking to every day in contact with at the end of the day, even during this debate, I got a few SMSs where people are asking to publish the defense register, but they also remind them that they haven't exercised any rights in this matter so they don't see what's controversial. I mentioned that there must be false defenders. I remember a story of my time, which I was never interested in at the end of the day, but I do know that there was talk that on the payrolls, which means that they were making a salary, they were also entitled to a whole family war add-on, and that none of the members of that unit that they didn't see at all, or they knew one or two people from that family, but there were far more people on that list who didn't see those people. This is the information that you mentioned that is the data of the MORH and the MUP I agree with and will now be published in the Defence Register and again some institutions should have checked within the MUP and MORH, and I'm afraid there's not much to be achieved here. I also agree with the conclusion that the bone that we're eating around now is unnecessarily, the stories will stretch, politicize, they'll probably go in the wrong direction. Could the ministry have had a more appropriate solution to this? We've had no longer a gentleman here if I'm not mistaken for Nazor from the Truth Research Centre about the Homeland War, which I hold to be probably one of the greatest experts on this matter and the man who apparently installed himself in that work. Is this part of the publication of the register, maybe it should have left it to the center, and that this resolution ministry is dealing with the verification of whether these data are real or if they're a little frustrated? The law also mentions resolving the housing issue, and I would only like to remind the minister that I have asked a parliamentary question regarding the number of apartments that come, or the owners of the apartments that come into question in residential care. But the mother's question was that the apartments owned by the city of Zagreb were asked. If I read the text correctly they are not mentioned in this text, and many defenders are practically illegal in these apartments and have no solution. Does this mean that this law will pass them, bypass them, or can expect to be based on this law that their status will finally be resolved. What I believe should be taken by this ministry is the trombone or slowness of the administrative-burocrat apparatus. Why am I saying that, so I'm talking about the recent case of a 58-year-old Castellan defender who, while waiting for supplies, lost all hope and, 15 days ago, shortened his misery by blowing himself up with a bomb. The man performed all the procedure, waited for an answer, waited at the end of 90 days and watched the absurd, the day before he called the ministry and was told that his case was in the procedure. The man simply lost his temper, lost his fight, and ruled for himself. These are the cases why this ministry exists and these cases should not, or the ministry, have such situations, that this complete, there are masses of things where defenders warn us that some things have to be repeated, that they have to re-send the same paperwork every year, which is pointless. If someone enters a register once and makes a right, his leg doesn't grow in the meantime. I think we really went too far in those administrative-burocrats. It's just that people are losing their will to fight it at all. Then we have a case of a Zadar defender, this case was already mentioned from this pay phone which, after the death of his parents, inherited some insignificant piece of land and now this piece of land is to him which he can't handle because he's amputated part of his feet, he can't do anything about it, it's a piece of land that's abandoned but he's losing certain rights because of such details. It's something that the Ministry of Defense would have to react even if from case to case, but it can't happen that we're bringing these people into a situation where they just get to the wall, they don't see a solution, there's an administrative worker in front of him who can't help him either, he doesn't know a further solution, and then he comes into a situation to raise his hand or raise his hand out of everything, becomes a social case. That's one thing, I honestly believe, not me, but I believe that we're all agreed that the Ministry of Defense is precisely why it was founded, that the defender would exercise such rights. What threw away a kind of thick edge is the Rubal case we all know, and I'm afraid there's a little bit of dust up there, and that's where the dust settles. Is there anyone after the fact that the media was raised whether anyone was responsible for those who misused that right, that would be the case. And by the very end of the minister, I have another case that we simply didn't take equal measures towards people who should, we have to have the same status. For example, employees, or shipmen, or I don't know what the right expression is, of the Vladimir Nazor ferry, who were under a working obligation and were killed during their work obligations have one status, while let's say the electrician Elektro Slavonia, who in South 2 in Osijek also suffered during his regular work but also had a working obligation. One was treated as a civilian victim, one under the Defense Act. I think there's just a real discrepancy between people who've been doing honest things that they had to do and they've had a job obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23452	Thank you. We have six replicas reported to this exhibit. Let's take it in a row. First respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The moment you said you got one text here I have to say and I've got one text. He says this way, I'm sorry to interrupt, I live in Knin, I'm 50% wounded, every day I look at a Chetnik who shelled Valpo and Belisce for a year. He works, his wife works, mine doesn't work, and he has no right, even though he's a participant in the Homeland War, he takes care of four kids. I've had two heart attacks, and in 17 years I haven't been taken care of yet. It's signed, I won't talk about the name. These texts, these messages speak of the need to discuss Croatian defenders, the Law on Croatian defenders and the Register of Croatian defenders. He may be like this or something, but it can't really be a bone around which we who belong to the same population will be rodents. The more important thing, what we expect from you and from all members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is to silence what you have heard here several times, the Register of Croatian defenders, yes, but also the register of abolized participants of the Serbian aggression in the Republic of Croatia. And only when that register is published then this Croatian Defence Registry will not be disputed for us. And it's not good for us to agree with each other, I agree with that, like we're enemies to each other. Croatian defenders, as well as all Croatian citizens and who did not have the status of defenders, expect this register to be made and to be published. And good is what is said, and a register of all those who receive Partisan pensions 68 years after the end of World War II. I talked about it two years ago while HDZ was on the hair, then silenced, and you'd better ever agree to it than never.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23454	A colleague, Mladen Novak, will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23455	Thank you very much. Comrade Buric, you've about confirmed exactly what I was saying. I don't mind us talking about it. However, we won't solve any problems if we put our heads in the sand, if we turn our backs on the problem, and now we say, the problem that I don't see didn't happen. It bothers me that we are from the defense register that should be, let's say 'the register of pride to create something that, in the debate, not from him, not from the register itself, but in the debate we practically led it to I don't even know I think someone mentioned that word list of shame. I can't see if he was my pride in '91. For years to see me, not for anyone to see me, I'm not for seeing me, but if I was proud to go defend my country, I don't see why this rock is around my neck, which is why I need any problem in my life. They can understand people who are mentioned here living in the territory of Republika Srpska, who live in Serbia, can understand that. I can understand people who are allegedly due to the nature of the job, although I'm skeptical of that argument, but because of the nature of the employer's job, it might be difficult for them. Because in any case, existence goes quite often ahead of pride. But I'm a registrar's register by my understanding there must be pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23456	Thank you very much. Second replica, respected representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23457	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Novak, please don't use this term of privilege for you and everyone else. Is it a privilege to stay in a wheelchair? Is it a privilege to lose a leg, a hand? Is it a privilege to lose a son? And so on. It is a term that we often pray to hear when the story of Croatian defenders is. There are rights under the law on the rights of Croatian defenders and nothing else. And it's not a privilege and it can't be a privilege for someone who's suffered badly in the Homeland War to make sure that the state can normally see to it that he and his family exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23458	We'll hear the answer from our colleague, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23459	Comrade Ivić, I ask you nicely not to put something in my mouth that I didn't say. ... I said, we can look. [[You can't hear it.]] We can market and we'll look. I said it was a privilege for fake, fake military disabled people. I emphasized that this is not about those who are real military disabled because it is not a privilege for them. That's the right they're making. It has nothing to do with privilege. Privileges are for someone who's a fake military invalid, and that's for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23460	Third replica of my colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Novak here warned that it was hard to tell who the defender was, for example, in Sunja. And we're going back to that one problem again, that the definition of defenders must be derived from the category of war. This was a defence war at a time when Croatia didn't have all its institutions, so only the institutions of the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Interior are listed here as those of the institutions in charge of the records. The example of Minister Matic himself speaks of the fact that Vukovar defenders were formally in a brigade formed only after the end of the war. On the other hand, aggression began long before Croatia even had the right to form the Ministry of Defence. The Croatian Parliament brought it, I think it's the 15th, but I'm not sure March as the day of national protection. There's no such thing as a form or an institution here at all. It's a clear thing, yes, but why. Because it can't be generalized. Because one people's protection had a defensive function to a far greater extent to some Sunya or I don't know, but where there were no military operations. Therefore, this law, the preparation of this law, has simply not been carried out, has not been well done. You don't have the right ones, you don't do everything that should be covered by this Defense Register. And in my opinion, you're going to have a big problem, because after all that's been done, you're going to hear from more people who, by all standards, can get into this defense register and you don't have the legal opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23462	Thank you. And this replica matches a colleague named Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23463	Thank you very much. Well, Professor, as far as I understand from your replica, we've agreed on this thing, and it's practically a real misunderstanding how to treat that population that is definitely, I agree with them not defenders. But the defense itself wouldn't have worked, Sonja wouldn't have survived without people like that. On the other hand, we have, they don't ask for people or I don't ask for them or anyone to mention any special confession or I don't know what. But on the other hand, people rightly think wait, if someone in Pula who was doing his job was honest and honest, but frankly, brother didn't see a "r" or in Varazdin, so that I didn't turn out to be targeting anyone. How do you treat these different things? They'll be in the defense register. Ha, my God, there you sit, doing your job. What Professor Fleischman says. Tudjman should sort of define that. Maybe he's even right, and that's why it's good for the law to go to another reading. These differences still have to be known, they have to exist, they have to be a little bit better prepared. The very division of the combat and non-combat sectors is definitely me claiming it's not good. These may be the participants of the Homeland War, but it cannot be a combat and non-combating sector. That's what article 2 ends up telling you exactly against. And he defines who the Croatian defender is, not the fighting and non-combat sector, but the one who got up in the defense of the Homeland with the weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23464	We will now hear the replica of counterpart Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's a colleague I'll just read one of the messages I got and say like this, please ask the unfortunates what's going to happen to us defenders who have to visit families in so-called. Republika Srpska? A Serb at the border reads a list of defenders, for example. BK – the fighting sector, whether we will have protection and protection, given that the Justice Minister signed an agreement with BiH a day or yesterday, in which extradition is all defined for crime, for all other matters and is excluded for war events, extradition or possibility of assistance between the two countries is excluded. What does this not say about the fact that the Minister of Justice himself has certain doubts that certain processes that have already been initiated by the Banja Luka Security Centre and which have been forwarded to 28 Croatian generals and defenders in two files could happen? And it's written by everyone else who's been involved in these operations. I just wanted to remind you again what might happen by publishing the Croatian Defence Register and what kind of security hazards are being threatened. I'm not really calling out for anyone's fear, but I'm worried, and I really don't care how the Croatian defenders go if possible and when I go across the border how I'm going to get through.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23466	Here's my colleague Mladen Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23467	Your colleague Djakic just said a sentence that caused a little laugh here when you're a colleague of Buric I won't say that you washed it but when you mentioned it, you know more than you did, etc. Do you underestimate any intelligence service? Do you underestimate, do you think that Serbia and Republika Srpska, I even claim that in some parts they may have a more complete list than our ministry has because I know us as we are quite superficial, sloppy and such and such, and I would not be surprised that this list there is far more extensive than it is with us. That's one thing. On the other hand, however we have seen all their informative and let's say mounted shows so have they watched Croatian television, not all but followed, and so I do not say all those who participated – we know about them, they know about us. You don't know much about the ultimate but he probably didn't do any evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23468	Now it will be replicated by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23469	Dear colleague Novak as you mentioned Sunja, as well as Professor Tudjman mentioned to Sunja that the people of Sunja deserve many other places. Sunya is just an example of status. If this is the status of a participant in the Homeland War, I know, for example, for Christmas 1991, several thousand grenades fell in the sun. I don't know what kind of status that skater has on Savi, the ones who came to Sunja know well when the skeleton turned out to be the most dangerous and when it crossed actually from the skeleton to Sunja that it was very dangerous. All these people certainly have far greater merit, if we can even speak of merits, to defend the Republic of Croatia from those who sat in offices. I completely agree with you. You were talking about the office of the ministry, the ministry should certainly deal with the defence fates above all. The ministry should address the specific problems of the defenders. First of all, the ministry should tear down all bureaucratic barriers. It cannot happen that the defender is waiting for something for 90 days without the services not responding and that the services are not in daily contact with those defenders. Every bomb that has been activated in this way, every defender who raises his hand is the failure of the Ministry of Defense and all of us as a society. So it's not just the Defense Department. First of all, the Ministry of Defence's task would be less published, I agree with the Defence Register, which I say I am personally, but I also respect those who have reason to say they are against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23470	And that's where we'll hear the answer from our colleague, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23471	Here's my colleague Vuksic, I have to admit that I'm only a little uncomfortable with your debate, and I thought about it, and I was in Sunja when the skeleton died right on the sunboard. Therefore, it is another addition to this story of the civilian population who lived there and who made his contribution that is truly immeasurable to all those who, let's say, belong to the non-combat sector and were far from any battlefield. I'm using this replica at the same time to ask you to really try to react isn't all within your ministry, but you as a ministry are in charge of this and of all these supplies, disabilityes and all this stuff that people have real problems because let's not bring this down to debate about false defenders, fake people with disabilities. The essence of this ministry is to help the rights, the real ones, those who unfortunately fail to solve their problem for these or those reasons. Unfortunately, it should be realistic, so there are people who have given up on themselves, not on themselves, but on themselves. But that's exactly why the ministry should react to such people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23472	And the last replicator, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what you just mentioned if I'm wrong about the Rubalo case, etc. So we are witnessing that in the 1990s and 2000s, I don't know what year God asked how many and how many people ended up in early and diverse forms of retirement categories. And today it's slowly coming to light. I personally wonder why nobody or I at least don't hear about it, so what it means is that mostly the media is pushing what's being read, what's being heard, what's being seen, how is there nowhere to go, how is it that millions of people who have been released in this way are going to end up being decoded that they're being stolen that people aren't interested in it? So we're going to do what again? Lists. Well, I think this is exactly what Croatia was created in a fight that I was just founded on having democracy that we have some rights and that anyone can say, let's say I did for this, not if it concerns me. I'm not on any list, I'm not on any lists, I'm not on the signatures of the marriage, I'm not on the KOS, I'm not on any partisan or anyone. If we think something's wrong, so let's start by reporting to our neighbor, our neighbor, our friend, my enemy, I don't know if Matic is in charge of it, but there are institutions, so let's report them already. Why are we silent about why we're hypocritical, why are we going to solve it in a way that we're going to throw it into a mass story like we say in Vukovar next door, so let's let what's going on cook something out of it. Well, they won't cook. Let us approach God’s command. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23474	To the last line, Mladen Novak's final response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Why is that, colleague Milas? Because people left in '91 and left their jobs in factories, they came back, and there's no more factories. Who was responsible for that? No one. People have lost faith in the institutions of this country. And that's why nobody wants me to report anything I'm going to end up with, so you have a case I don't know you see crime, report it, the police come and get your data, from either A or B. That's why you don't. But that's why there are institutions, so okay. Now we've got a new power, not an hour has passed a year. So show something that you're different from these before. Let these institutions determine how many Dr. Rubala and a similar Dr. The rubals that they gave these false pensions, or their findings, made possible. So I remember that in time there was a debate about it like this in the cafes informally giving the Hospital in Vrapč that it was a factory of fake wartime wartime disabled people. You want PTSD to go there. I can't claim it's true or it's my part to claim it or not to prove it or prove it, but there are institutions in this country. You know what's interesting? Irregular loans are given to us all by tram stations on trams, but legal institutions don't know about that. We all know of false military disabled people just real institutions don't know about it. A little weird with us are the most uninformed people looking exactly where they should react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23476	We are continuing to discuss the clubs now, so I invite my colleague, Peter Baranovic, to present the views of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. In the name of the HNS club, I will say some things and think about us from the HNS on the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and these changes and additions that we have ahead of us. The very fact that there is such a law in one country testifies that in all our differences and confrontations there is one consensus and this is a consensus on the need for people who have made more or less of their contribution to the creation of this free sovereign Croatian state to be cared for as a society. And that's something we should be proud of. I personally am because of that fact. I thank you on behalf of the CNS for all those people who worked in the systems and gave their best efforts and contributed to promoting programmes and giving birth to ideas about how and how and how to help and in some way depriving and supporting Croatian defenders and disabled people, family members of all those who deserve such access. Likewise, I thank all who have worked on the laws so far and who have understood the need for the law to follow life with all the needs that come from this all the changes that life brings. And so these changes and additions that we now have in front of us would absolutely welcome and apostrophe to see these changes as something positive. Similarly, I will comment for sure at least as citizens if I am not a parliamentary representative when in a few years, and in this I am certain life brings some new things and opens up some new questions about the status of Croatian defenders and about the needs of their families, widows, children. This law adopts some new measures prescribed for the defender's benefit is housing care which during the debate, which was completely legitimately challenged as a measure, so millions of kuna budgets were mentioned, everyone clearly has the right to his/her position. I don't think it's my idea to deny the right of parliamentary deputies to think differently from me. However, I consider myself a parliamentary representative and we at the HNS think it's finally time to look at life and draw a line and understand. Among the defenders who had never achieved HRVI status very certainly because they had no idea of such a thing, who had returned to the active working population after the war, there were people who had been granted a sequence of circumstances in life that in some of the most mature years we were now in the youngest generation, one of the youngest generations and personally, but there were many older than me, now they are old men, whose companies, due to various circumstances, would not use some terms to say that I am politicizing. They've come into a situation where they're houseless, that they might have some kind of savings, that they might have some chance, that they might have a chance to borrow anyway, to take care of themselves. Suspension or in some way attempt to discredit the initiative of Mr. Minister of the Ministry of People who want to help defenders that even defenders who spent two and three years in a certain percentage are being subsidized, I don't think it's at least smart. That's my personal opinion. Let me have a different view than some parliamentary representatives in this pay phone. Maintaining graves, discussing whether it will be done by local self-government or whether it will be done by state-levels, someone has to do so, and local self-government is obliged to take account of it, so at the time of the worst indifference, and we are not now in great times, I'm sure that no one will question it. An increase in widow's rights. Many of these women, including all these women, experienced a terrible tragedy. Some of my generation gave birth to the first child a month after their husband died on the Big Head, lived alone, based on the status of the widow of a fallen defender, raising children. Do we have the right to bury them alive in 45 or 50 years? Do we have a right to that? If they have the right to find some kind of new positive emotion, some purpose of life. Children grow up, leave, stay alone. Do they reach out to that right that emancipated people should they stay on the road? Who's gonna hire them at 50? Is that really scary some kind of benefit we give these women? For that reason, we at the HNS welcome this measure. Finally, the most important thing, the introduction of criminal sanctions for ignoring the rights that Croatian defenders and members of their families have in the context of employment or in other contexts. Absolutely necessary because of the absolutely realistic life situations in which many have ignored the advantage that Croatian defenders and members of their families, i.e. the children of fallen Croatian defenders, have in various situations, I mean employment primarily. The biggest debate in this hall today raised the issue of the Croatian Defence Register. In this hall I see several, at least a few of the well-known Croatian defenders and I am a personal Croatian defender, I consider myself an average Croatian defender, an officer from the Homeland War, and I will comment on some things spoken this morning. The issue of national security was raised, the question of hunting for Croatian defenders was raised because the list would be published. Ladies and gentlemen, in every monograph of every battle unit, I have five, as the mayor, I get a gift from my fellow fighters who served in other units. Each of the military units invites us to some kind of promotion, so when you come to that promotion, they give you that monograph, then you see the pictures, see if they were, what they were doing, you see the names, the lists, the platoon commanders. In this House, books were shared written by a well-known Croatian general, i.e. the collected works of the documentary character in which the orders were written, faxed written orders in the artillery sector, in the field of infantry intelligence services with seals and signatures of officers who commanded and brought certain orders. What we're talking about, what a danger it is for Croatian defenders because their name will be on the list. What is the matter of national security that Petar Baranovic served in the 113th and 204th brigade, of course not to Vukovar 204 because it was untraceable for a time but for that artillery, rocket, anti-aircraft defence. What national security is at stake, so do we really think that if some secret service of a country that does not tend to us and has them, do we really think and want to tell the Croatian public that these services that have such an order and have such motives in the background are required to search for information on Croatian defenders on Google, on the Croatian registry. In the end, the Croatian registry is also placed in the context of a pillar of shame. What a shame, so it is a register of national pride, it is a register of the pride of every man who participated in the defence of the Croatian homeland, either as a member of a combat or as a member of a non-combat sector that exists in reality but needs to be defined. Clearly, people who were doctors, firefighters, who in other public services and at times of military shelling our cities went out on the ground and clearly deserved at least the status of part of the non-combat sector. Some of them died. The Sibenik firefighters died on a mission to put out the fire. People were not members of the battle unit, but their families deserve that their fathers who were killed in this way have the status of Croatian defenders, but clear definitions of ladies and gentlemen. Well, we can't say that someone who's radioed at the shoe factory, that someone who worked at the factory who sewed our uniforms, we were sewn by the women from "Revia" here today, who pass through the fate of 12 years, that they are also the defender. No, they're dissuaded workers on whom the system, society doesn't take care of in an adequate way. But they're not defenders. How are we going to make the difference between that woman and the cookbook that was making excellent meals at the Hotel Jadran that we were grateful for. When we first got to '91. A meal I told my colleagues back then, people we'd win the war. They said how do you think it is? When we get in a position like this, when the gloves come after us, when we come screaming for sleep, when the whole people are behind us. We'll win the war. Should we be ashamed of our participation? No, I don't. But you should be ashamed of yourself, ladies and gentlemen, and don't tell me that 500 and some thousand names don't have at least a thousand who don't deserve to be on that list, at least a thousand. Only one name on that list is reason enough to publish it, so let it live with shame. It may never reveal itself, but it will live with shame. To put it in the category of those that I felt as a man the need to pass the protocol, without flashing the camera go alone, alone on Ovcar, there to question myself and my relationship to the Homeland War. I didn't want to mention any of the names in this debate. '91. I've been missed in one situation for years like that in decimeters. I didn't get into the shock that I did this morning after I realized that in discussing one such topic, a law that needs to be taken one step forward in the protection of the defence population could appear elements of mutually accusedness, attempt to discredit one another, that one such law and one such topic would take control and enter the sphere of the most ground-based political reckonings. After this debate, not as a parliamentary representative, but as a man, I once again have the need to go to the Sheepman alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23478	Three replicas have been reported. First, colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague of Baranovic's, you've made your views known, your opinion in front of your political party. I must say that the quest for widows is certainly a good but equal position for all widows of Croatian military disabled. Why not have all equal rights when we only give rights to the widows of the Croatian military disabled first and second groups 100 percent. Why not have all those whose husbands die as a result of the conduct of service, wound, or illness. Let them have everything. There's room in the budget. And for these things that were space there. If 140 million kunas have reduced the budget for the needs of Croatian defenders, then we have enough space to redeploy that money would certainly be enough. As far as security is concerned. The safety of individuals will certainly be questionable. Those who are in the Croatian Defence Register, who have worked in the interest of the Republic of Croatia as intelligence officers, as security guards, and may be residents of other states. As well as all those who will move as I said across the border and someone who intends to put them down I said 28 were on the charge plus writing everyone else who participated with them in these operations. And third, when you say that only one name is enough to make the register public and be the national pride of that register. Yeah, and only one wrong name is enough to make that register a national disgrace.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23480	Another replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wanted to actually support the tone and the way my colleague Baranovic debated in principle. I would like to thank you for the fact that you have commended your colleague Baranovic to all those who have worked in the system in any way throughout the years and who have helped us to arrange it. I can tell you who helped us sort it out and really turn to the future and ensure what's most important, which is that the defenders have their place in society, to be respected, to be respected, to be respected. Of course, when you mentioned the monographs and the names of many who were published in monographs exactly. And I have a whole series of monographs at home in my library. The difference between monographs and publication of names and data in monographs and registers of Croatian defenders who want to publish the Croatian state is that all those who are listed in these monographs voluntarily agreed to it. So they volunteered to have their names, last names, units, and all the other photos found in those books. And as for those who may not have the merits of recognition that the state has given them and all of us and all citizens, so that they have the status of Croatian defender and that through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence they can gain certain opportunities. I think if there are any who didn't deserve it, and they're on the defense list, and they'll be visible when that register is published, there'll be no shame. Unfortunately, if there are people who could draw certain rights from law law, the '96 law. to this day, and if they were silent and were sleeping peacefully I am sure my colleague Baranovic that they have no shame and that even by this act, if they are not revealed they will not be ashamed, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23482	This replica is matched by counterpart Petar Baranovic. ... I'm sorry, I thought you called. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Third replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23483	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I also noticed my colleague Baranovic your tone and I think that addressing Croatian defenders and towards them requires both respect and pride. And in that part, I agree. You asked one question we have no right to bury them. Well, of course we don't, and that's undeniable. So no one buried them in the past two governments, but he respected them, and with his works, he justified it. So that's it. But I would like to remind you that, if this budget of my colleague Baranovic, which you will raise your hand for, he does not guarantee it. That's one moment that's important to say. And when we remember and remember the past and the history of the past teaches us that they were not respected defenders, that they were belittled, you remember only those defenders of the first category when they didn't get vehicles for Croatian military disableds, when it was with prosthetics and everything, then there was no voice to hear. I meet with defenders and friends on a daily basis and most often fall in humiliation and humiliation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23484	However, this replica is matched by counterpart Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23485	My presentation to esteemed counterpart Milinkovic was intonated this way because of the fact that personally as a human, I believe these are topics that should be outside of party bickering, political competition and everything else. I did not get the impression that there is any decent man in Croatia regardless of political commitment and whether he is a believer or an atheist living in some system of norms and positive criteria, how many positive criteria, and that he questions Homeland War, Croatian defenders and all of what this society at certain stages of its development was able to provide for Croatian defenders. Once again, yes, here I have not replicated Mrs. Kosor, I thank all the people of those nurses who care about war veterans in spas and those politicians who find within themselves the strength to work positively and affirmably on this problem without pretending this issue. And I have to be honest and say this wasn't the case this morning. That this issue is not being converted into a basis for mutual bickering of the lowest political level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23486	We've finished discussing the clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate. The first registered representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23487	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers all morning. We've heard there are good ones, there are bad changes, I need something and I can say one way about this bill. Looking at the number, we have heard that additional rights amounting to 3.3 million kuna amounting to 0.2% of the entire budget of the Ministry of Defence. However, somehow it is silenced that in a rebalancing which has recently been voted, we have reduced the overall position of the Ministry of Defence from the then projected 2012 to a billion and 178 million to the final billion and 119th respectively. The entire 60 million kuna. So now we project for 2013 billion and 138, so that's less than this year for the next 40 million kuna. We often say that we have a lot of opportunities and that theory is really good in Croatian legislation. However, when we go into practice, that theory is experiencing a different act. We must, however, say that regardless of these increases we will in the next year and Croatian defenders will have less practical rights in the following year regardless of much more opportunities. We've heard we're introducing opportunities for tens of thousands of volunteers. The minister says some will be here right away, and some will be here in 10 years if they allow it. We can agree on that. I'm saying that living care might be nothing, because there's no money. Many today, perhaps the most important part of this debate, referred to this famous Croatian Defence Register. I approached him in my own way, I think as a defender I can talk about it, I must admit that I failed to find my interest in the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. I just couldn't find it, and I was thinking a lot of it. How after 17 years when you were already somewhere, maybe more, and 20, and 22, how do you remember all those who were around you or who you were part of? Can I remember them by name and last name? By some information that's going to come out? Maybe I remember two, three of them I stayed in touch with, I don't recognize everything else. Do we, on that criterion, separate what I have already asked, honorably from the wicked? I didn't like the criteria because it really is, and so can all those in the 500 grand confirm it. They don't remember everyone either. So I went wider, whether to include a time period. Some were in positions, at wartime for a year, some two, some a few months, some five whole years. How do I know who was before me, if I was a year old, who was after me? That criterion doesn't work either. I just can't know. So I tried to bring it down to the territorial structure. I come from a small place where I know a thousand people, but not all of them by name and last name, and I'm going to say hello to him, and I'm going to see him, but I don't know him by name and last name. Is that a criterion? Perhaps in a small town that is not in Zagreb for tens of thousands of defenders in Rijeka, Osijek, in large cities. How do you recognize them who are honorable and who are not honorable? That's not a criterion either. There's simply no sorting criteria, even though I'm saying I've worked very hard to figure it out. Then I thought maybe this government wasn't asking me to become what the rat people say. What would she do with me? For what? By publishing a register like this. Am I going to point my finger at the full consciousness of showing someone by respecting what I've said to these classification criteria and saying you didn't deserve to be there. Where are we gonna do this? At the bar, for coffee in the family homes in the church where it will be sorted out. Maybe after the announcement, maybe some people will start doing it, maybe it's an interest. I'm not ready for that, and I don't want to be. However, after hearing here today, we have already passed a confessional secret in some discussions after we heard yesterday in the debate, we have found that citizens who do not recognize the property of their neighbor and its origin, and it is great and not reporting to their neighbor may be punished for such activity for such inaction. I ask the question of what does the state want from us? Are we all going to control everything? Is that what this country's interest is? Possibly. It's possible we want to turn into a big brother to a big brother. Is that an interest? Maybe it is. He can also be legitimate and I still hope that's not our goal. I asked you ministers about the procedure of eradicating those who are wicked. They're gone. The law doesn't prescribe it, it doesn't prescribe it. She doesn't exist, does she? She doesn't exist. But there is how I understood you there is your position as a goal. We will publish the Croatian Defence Register without procedure. Well, that's what happens then. We've heard enough about the dangers. We can't pretend we don't see what's going on in our neighborhood. We can't pretend. And today we have one verdict liberating in the Hague court for another country for other people, and we have heard from that side of our area that when the Hague court has not already ruled that they expect them to go to solve this justice system in their own way. Can this document become part of their justice? I think he can do it this way. Why can't he? We also heard that some defense register was already published in the 4th month of 2010 and that nothing had happened in it. Why didn't it happen? It didn't happen because it was an informal, unofficial document. This document, this is government policy she gets the seal of this government this becomes official policy, we'll be able to use this all in our evidence and lawyers and prosecutors. There's a lot of doubt in there and one for me again. I know for myself the best of my truth, but my best friends don't know her. What if they want to tell me that I'm guilty or dishonest and I have the paperwork on this list? Who will solve these conflicts? Will the law of the street be worth it? Shall we go to justice? Shall we share the expenses? Are we going to do this because this is a pre-election promise that needs to be fulfilled all together end up where we don't want to? It's a disaster for me. You said yourself, listen to General Gotovina's words, "Let's turn to the future." Minister, why are you turning us around in the past? Is this a turn of the past? I think maybe he's wrong, but I think he is. We're reopening the past and we're not thinking about the future. And why aren't we thinking? Because otherwise in this country, you don't think until something happens. And this Defense Registry allows something to happen. It won't be in five days or in a month or two or three months, but it might be in a year. And then we'll react maybe, maybe we'll say, but then I don't think it's gonna matter who's going to jail instead. Maybe some of them will end up there. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23488	Thank you very much, fellow Boric. Now he wants to replicate his colleague, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague I agree entirely with your debate when you said that the publication of the defence registry is indeed proof that tomorrow anyone in that position is responding or that someone calls him out of the neighbouring country, above all from those people who attacked Croatia. All together, and we especially at HDZ claimed that the publication of the register was not good. And the question that you, and today Mr. Minister, have received from several MPs and especially from the HDZ ranks, what will happen when you are not a minister, then who will go to prison? And your colleague here today told you the former president that you can't even go to jail by law. So it's a demagogue where you simply deceive all the defenders and at the same time you're not even aware, you probably won't be responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23490	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We have a Rules of Procedure, and you've called in to replicate your colleagues. No, no, you're not replicating. Look... Look, I'll give you all the time you want right now, but give me why you're making fun of the Rules of Procedure that we brought ourselves. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23491	I'm not making fun of him. I'm saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23492	You're making fun of me. Keep working like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23493	But look, you can't fix me here right now. I have replicated and am based on the debate of my colleagues, Boris, but at the same time I have called on that the law you bring is not good and I am just talking about that the Croatian defenders are threatened by the publication of the register and you are constantly talking about something here today that is not true and you want to tell all of us together, and those defenders who are not for it to be published, to be published. Mr. Vice President, that's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23494	Here's my colleague Boric, you heard you say something that's not true. That's what your colleague told you. I hope your colleagues can explain to you what the Rules of Procedure looks like and how it applies. [[Intruder Lucic: I told you.]] It's time for the individual debate, colleague Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23495	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot being said in these discussions. I'm just going to try to point out another moment that may not have been so expressed here, so I'm going to talk about people's protection and people's protection. So it has been 21 years since the establishment of national protection with Dr Franjo Tuđman, the then Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, but also the man who became president of the Interparty Council of National Protection, was founded on 15 March 1991. That is what the Croatian Parliament, which declared the national protection mentioned on that day, confirmed. If that is the case, then it cannot exist in our view any internal guidance from the MORH which, as the day of participation in national protection, is determined by 31.7.'91. because it means that no one can achieve their status since it is prescribed that the Croatian defender is a member of the armed national protection squads is the one who spent at least 5 months in it until 24 December '91. A year. So this is notsens because you can't theoretically do it because it's just missing those six days. So it turns out we don't have any members of the national protection that would achieve this status. It is true that an initiative has also been launched according to our ministry to amend the law in that part. We felt that they had really matured or had conditions that could still be resolved, so that these people were granted the status of Croatian defenders because they were volunteers under arms and their own weapons, with weapons that they bought in such a way that they sold either a cow or a car or who had in a savings book, so they supplied their own money in various ways, ammunition, and with their clothes and food from the house volunteered to defend the homeland without a mobile call and certainly without pay. So all those guards, patrols, blockades, sieges and conquests of military members of the people's protection carried out in the best possible way. This was eventually acknowledged to them, and that only says that national protection was well organized, voluntary, people's army. There are a few reasons that have come to us or to me, however you will, a lot of reasons for not removing this I will say injustice and mentioning among other lack of money. We do not believe that this cannot be acceptable as an explanation because members of national protection are not now asking for any money or any special means for their status that they seek. I speak the well-deserved status which is different, however, so that someone would not be offended, from some secretary at the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Interior who is in the warm room and I will say theoretically spend one day, speaking theoretically and could achieve such a status. Another reason that's mentioned is that there's already too many defenders, so here's these few thousand real defenders, I repeat the real defenders, the defense community. I don't think that's working either. If someone was the defender he was and will be, and if someone wasn't, if someone was as false as it is mentioned, solve it in another way rather than the real defenders keep it out of that proud community. And that's what Mr. Minister needs to point out, I hope and respect, and that's why it went after the proposal to be referred to in paragraph 1. Article 2 of the Law simply deletes the unsustainable part, which is, I will quote: it has spent at least 5 months until December 24, 1991. For years, because no one can do that. I know from the Ministry's title there was a certain goodwill. But here's the People's Protection because they turned down the proposal that went that way or the direction he was heading. And I have to pass it on at the end, because the last one was extremely inappropriate, and if nothing else was said, they concluded. If nothing else, we'll be waiting for a better time. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23496	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23497	Mr. Vice President, here's more, in my replica, I'd like to show my agreement with a colleague who came forward before and just back up with the fact that people's protection in the city that I come from was founded on 15.8.91. And that, no, not the fifteenth was formed in the city itself. It's legal before, but I'm talking about the city itself and that it was more or less all people who had a job obligation and that during the night they were doing all the other things. I believe that the law that was in force was unfair, because one part of the members of the national protection that joined the Croatian Army troops was accepted, an internship was conducted in folk protection. And the members of the people's protection that stayed away in the people's protection didn't get any status. Here I fully agree with my colleague, Ronko, that people's protection is not asking for anything but the status that they have since they have both with weapons and with their time without any compensation they have defended and built this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23498	Now I have to tell you what I just told my colleague. This is no replica. So sign up for a hearing, and say whatever you want. But when you report for the replica, please choose to replicate, because this shows respect for the Rules of Procedure that we have brought ourselves. And by showing respect for the Rules of Procedure, you show respect for this House and for all its representatives. The answer to my colleague Ronko's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23499	Very briefly, dear colleague. There's two of us already.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23500	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear colleague Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23501	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, many times in this assembly, right here in this assembly, and especially in public, words have been heard, so here are some of the colleagues who have been repeated before. It's not time to politicize. At least we should be politicizing the defense attorney or on their behalf. I agree with that deeply. So there has never been time for any party in Croatia to adopt Croatian defenders. The defenders don't belong to any stranger, they belong to all of us, to the left or to the right, to the upper, to the lower. And that is why I join everyone who thinks that the principle that should guide us when we are discussing, including amendments and additions to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, should be that we do not sharpen our political teeth on defenders, on their status, on their past, but also on their future. Of course, I am not convinced that this will happen, of course it will still be so many times that in this assembly too many debate in a way that they do not serve the arguments, but that they are exclusively used by disqualifications. I also believe that to present the fact, to present the information, to tell the truth, even when we talk about the rights of Croatian defenders, to take care of them throughout the years that it is necessary, that it is necessary to do so and that it does not mean politicizing. So, if it is said that in some period of concern for Croatian defenders was weaker or if someone opposes the publication of the register of Croatian defenders with arguments, then I think it is not politicising, but that it is the fact that, of course, we who have had the opportunity to be in the executive power, so be in power, we must be in opposition, and I have often repeated it since I was back in Parliament, we have to represent the same principles. Well, since as Minister of Croatian Defence, I have been justified against publishing the register for quite specific reasons, if you will and as a lawyer, then that is, of course, the fundamental principle that I am running through and through this debate. Of course, with all other amendments and additions to this Act, the central place to be discussed in public will be the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. I find it unusual to say that in the article, therefore, I will now be quite concrete in article 109, which speaks of the Croatian Defence Register, says that the defence register is being established. So, the defense register is set up and he's not going to get in line by making these changes from the law. Because the register of Croatian defenders exists, it is drawn up. It can, of course, be complemented, it can be improved, but the register of Croatian defenders will not be established when these amendments and the amendments to the laws are passed. And secondly, there is an unusual explanation in this particular article. So, it is said that the register is being established, and then, of course, I continue to interpret it because the register will be published, so that it also refers to the publication of the register as it writes here to strengthen the dignity of Croatian defenders and promote the value of the Homeland War as well as strengthening honor and respect for Croatian defenders. I do not agree that it will grow and strengthen the honour and reputation of Croatian defenders if the register is published. Honor either you have or you don't have or you're honorable or you're not honorable, even if you're a Croatian defender. And in any way that would help preserve the dignity of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, I think that neither in the reasoning of the law, but neither in this debate is supported in any way. So I think we should actually rephrase this article and write simply that this article will be done and also this article afterwards because of political will. Of course, those who are in power always have the right to their political will, to implement their announcements through the amendment and addition of the law, and then some others come and then possibly change it in order. I think that we should really agree once that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences is one of those laws that we would try to create some kind of consensus because I also belong to those who think that when the register is published, when it is public it will cause unnecessary controversy and unnecessary humiliation to some, here are many of them mentioned, so that it is only one person, only one person, only one Croatian defender who will because some who did not know that his name in the register is now to find out that he is being accused, to humiliate him, that his family would suffer because it would be absolutely too much so that one day by judicial means prove that it is not so. I was Minister of Croatian Defence and often received anonymous letters, but of course also reports from different citizens and Croatian defenders about the fact that someone specifically acquired the status of a Croatian military disabled in an illegal manner. So either he gave bribes to the medical commissions or otherwise. All the way up to one, regardless of who it was, and sometimes the names that were known to me, of course I passed it on to the State's Attorney's Office, or USKOK, I received this letter, so I'm going to pass it on to you. I mean, even when the Croatian Defence Register is published, it certainly won't mean that the idea that we have here is being realized, and the minister is trying to interpret how it says it will separate the grain from the weeds. He won't. If there are those who are unworthy of the list and if the minister and his associates know of such and should of course have reacted long ago. So, by reporting to the competent institutions. This is how the rule of law for which Croatian defenders fought first and foremost for the rule of law is preserved. And the paradigm of patriotism from the time people went to the front lines and the naked almost barefoot changed, of course, to this day. Today being a patriot means not to steal, not to lie, not to cheat, not to do evil to others, to work, to do your job honestly and then to refer to us MPs in the Croatian Parliament. That's how patriotism is proved, of course. And these different bickerings at different levels, about the people's and the non-national government, about who I really think it is, cancels the swearing of many in that here's Gotovina's basic message that has been quoted many times today as "Let's turn to the future." So, and the debate that we are having today if it doesn't result in us really doing everything we can to make the rule of law work in the fullest sense of the word when we talk about those who have a right, and they've acquired it in an illegal way to really let the institutions do their job. What concerns me particularly about the possibility of happening through the media, but also through various political discussions and politicisation is this provision that says that the part of the register that is secret, which will not be published which speaks of the war route and of other information which, of course, every country in the interest of national security, will have to be kept in mind that this part of the war route will also be published if the defender allows it. I am afraid that a new debate will be opened where a number of people will report immediately to the public and the war route, publish all data on the units and everything that should be in the interest of national security should remain forever closed to the institutions that will start a competition and that those who will then not allow the publication and that part of the war route will be immediately marked. And they'll be like that. There will also be those who publish it for their own reasons and those who will not. So we will reopen a debate that will neither be fruitful nor on good defenders, but not on behalf of the whole of Croatia. So here's what I'm appealing to the hot heart, but the cold heads, we're also discussing these changes and the additions to the law. I commend that it goes in two readings and that we will be able to talk about it one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23502	Thank you. In an individual debate, we will now hear the thoughts of colleagues of Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the debate really long and I personally think that, and I expected it to go honestly in the direction it went, that in the amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families we will mainly deal with the publication of the register. So something about me is absolutely peripheral in all of this, which is written in law before that. So we have eight years of law that is in force, which is I will agree with everyone who has spoken really well before me, but time makes its own, new circumstances come, new moments, so I will be open and new knowledge and surely there are things that need to be done, that need to be fixed at the end and changed. And in this sense, I support what Mr. Djurović said and I am very pleased that the Croatian defender got to call it so the status of a historical significant historical person precisely for the reason that tomorrow will really be left alone on the ground without anyone, who has no idea on the burden. At least tomorrow someone has to worry about what's called an eternal resting place that unfortunately many of the Croatian defenders don't have today. First of all, I think these changes have a good intention so they're a good idea, I'm talking about widow status. And let's just say the widows of the Croatian wartime wartime disableds of the first and second groups, I really don't mind getting rid of it in an adequate way, but I think that's how we discriminate against all those widows who don't have that option. So I'm saying it just not because someone should get something and someone doesn't, I think we have to die everywhere, and I don't think we can separate death from death. What about a widow who has no one and who won't have, say, after her husband's death if she's not old enough, who's going to take care of her? That's why we have a supply solution, but I think that's discrimination. So one is supplies, the other is retirement. Let's try to solve it with some kind of system solution, so the same thing. Under the legal provisions, or under the conditions prescribed by the law. I think even considering here I'm going to mention the same thing, we saw that 60 million was saved in rebalancing. I don't know if the minister knows what the number is. I really don't know, I won't bid on this at all, but maybe that amount would be enough for families or widows or such categories that in some way and no one would definitely mind helping these families not to be social cases so that they don't fall on a beggar stick but to still have one life worth living. The more behind them, the more those who gave the most for Croatia were either behind them. I think further that one small article, perhaps I'm wrong about the supply that should stop the moment the Croatian defender has the right to supply if he is 50 years old, are mostly sick people unable to work, if he goes to prison I don't know why he can't pay for the purpose of his supply. What happens when he gets out of prison? Which they'll pay again tomorrow for some kind of electricity or something basic if that supply doesn't go. Why am I going to be now, can someone blame me, why the Croatian defender when he goes to prison is going to retire? We'll say he earned it, deserved it. I agree with that, but I think that supply payment if a man gets from the title of defenders, so I don't think he needs to be abolished, and I don't think it's a matter of how many jails they end up in, I don't think it's a big cost to the state and yet to discriminate and what's worse to put those people who are in such a difficult position in a position that is even more difficult for them. My colleagues were talking about people's protection, so we're all aware that the problem of national protection should be I agree with this systematically solved and the sincere definition of a war participant I think I've talked to the minister about before, I myself somehow that definition doesn't belong to me anywhere. I think the war participant is here and the minister's parents and my mother who was there I don't know cook us no defensive status, there's nothing, but she was a war participant. Now give them because they're people's protection so through the charter, I think you should think about it so with some other solution, the more that there really are documents there is a history there are orders from the minister so from the Supreme Commander if I'm not mistaken somewhere in the end of July of '91. National protection received a military facility with specific tasks and with everything else that goes with such orders. And maybe according to that, you should think about what it's all about. The minister said the law was at a public hearing and agreed. Right, the law was at a public hearing and I personally attended a meeting about the law that I have to say was pretty good, but I don't think it was in line. I think a task force was formed and so they told me here today they reminded me that she had never discussed this final bill for a moment. And I don't think compliance is in the way we've heard it. So thank God they have two readings and I think a lot can be fixed. And in the end, I'm going to like everyone else through the replicas. I've already said something again about that famous register. What about 500 grand, I have a document here, I don't have papers I'm not going to show but I'm just going to say, the minister knows about these documents, so it's '98, a list of defense attorneys according to the Ministry of Defense, a list of employees by the Ministry of Defense who had the right to so-called. benefits and what I know. On this list, by stamping the signatures of people who had four months, so not one day less than four months and more spent in the war, they were entitled to that privilege by 400 thousand on this list in '98. I don't know how many of those are up to four months? I know, but I'm not gonna do it with that. So it was already the number of 500 thousand people. I'm not going to say at all whether she's right or not I have my opinion on it but it's for some I dare say maybe some round tables of a professional type. So the list as it is when it's published, it's absolutely not going to bring anything. And he's a list of honors, pride and glory, so I don't think he needs a list for that. I don't think we need anyone to tell us who the hero of the Homeland War is in Croatia. Well, it was seen on exactly what's called a Hague verdict to our generals. No one should have told people here's the hero. People figured it out themselves. No one should say that the Treasure of Zadar is a hero, that Damir Tomljanović is and we agree with that. So we don't need to revise history in this way or show it the way it isn't. Let's leave a list. If we think about it, I won't really, I don't want to bid on it, if there are people who didn't deserve it, so let's really give that list to the DORH, so let's make a department in DORH, or I don't know where, let's find that money and pay those people, or let those institutions, once and for all. Let's not let it go, I'll repeat that Vukovar word, don't let it into the neighborhood. I'm left with, I'm going to end up with, a remarkable poll on who's to publish, who's not. An old lady, probably 70 years old, I can't wait to see it. And I mean that's nice, but I wonder why. For what? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23504	Three replicas have been reported for this exhibit. First, dear colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23505	Well, here you have touched the amendments to Article 7 that are foreseen here in the amendments to the law and how it just always opens up a new space to establish inequality and that's how it is. Once you've made some kind of socially incorrect move and you've kind of privileged one group, then, of course, the next one shows up and asks why you're neglecting us. So once you open up the retirement space for women up to 40 years of age, at the age of 40, widows of the 1st and 2nd disabled groups, and of course they will ask women of these groups of 3rd and 4th categories why they are discriminated against and thus opens the space itself for deepening, one initial wrong measure only further deepens and opens further dubiosis. And for example, for comparison, you can read, say, today in Slavonia voice in Vinkovci family of nine-members, grandmothers, husbands, women and 6 children live from a single salary of 2500 kuna and say we are hungry. They're not looking for food, they're looking for more work for someone. They're not asking for a pension or social aid, but they're asking for a job for another member of that 9-member family. So in this one social context that we are in today, it's very easy to take the wrong steps and not be just. And as for the publication of the register, here I will now say on the one hand, I think the publication of the Croatian Defence Register will be about the same as the publication of the list of taxpayers. That's what people are going to look at, here and there, and someone's going to fly in and out of 3 or 5 or 7 days after that publication, and nobody's going to look at it or study it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23506	The replica matches the esteemed Bell of Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djurovic, I can agree with what you said, but in order to be more precise, I must be honest. We were with the minister at a meeting of the Veterans Committee to discuss exactly the category of women who unfortunately remain truly in the situation, who have 40 and a half years of their lives doing the honor work of a housewife, so with 5 children with a husband who is a Croatian defender, who is disabled, who has been retired, died, retirement is not connected, or death has not occurred as a consequence of the Homeland War. She doesn't have years to inherit a pension, kids are either finished school so they're out of work or they're out of school, which is the same common case and she stays absolutely nowhere, literally on the street. So it's not easy for her to find, the company says we're gonna get her a job, so what kind of job we're gonna get her. She's been taking care of the family all her life, and we can't forget that. Let's think of these people who are a few years old and so on. spent on the battlefield. That was very important, very responsible at the time. If it hadn't been for her, who would have saved that family and how these families would have functioned any further. In that sense, I support the intention of helping them, or that if it happens, I just think that because of what you said that we must not allow the team to violate the rights of those others who will tell us where we are.... So let's try to solve it for them, but in the same way, on equal terms. Here's nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23508	Another replica will be Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Milas, I'm glad you talked about concrete things, very concrete, namely the difficulties that Croatian defenders face. You also talked about supplies and material difficulties that many have in various environments, and in rural areas in particular. Personally, I have witnessed such situations, and I have personally witnessed the most difficult when I intervened and saved in such situations. And then you were talking about supplies that come into question to be taken, right? Well, one who's been given a job incompetence or any circumstances, so who can guarantee that at an ever older age, it'll come back to him. That's not a speech. And secondly, I would like to say that the most important moment for Croatian defenders is to leave them active, and in this sense, defence cooperatives have produced extraordinary results, but I want to make it clear here in front of the minister and in front of all of us that, in this context, relations with agriculture are very difficult. And the other thing I'm saying is, a number of defenders who didn't want neither supplies nor in any other way started their O.P.G.s, got into a business with a desire to work, to be active, and what happened to them happened to be destroyed. It's a terrible thing, and tomorrow you'll support a budget that hits them extra hard and knocks them to the bottom. These are things to do, and one work to do speaks more than 100 words, so however we continue them in the cellophane. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23510	The replica matches the esteemed Bell of Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Milinkovic, I agree with you. Therefore, the definition of supplies itself stems from the fact that a person entitled to a supply other than having defence status is incompetent to work. So, a sick person who doesn't have, therefore, the status of a wartime military invalid doesn't have these other statuses stemming from the law on rights. And I really think that supply in the cases that are listed, let's say by law, in the bill of law, should not be touched. What you were saying about cooperatives, etc., so it's been kind of started for years. And I'm glad to see that the ministry is still on the trail that cooperatives still have that dimension and function that they need. And I think it's the right way. So, activate actively, means active defenders in terms of both resociation and usefulness in society, and hence the feelings of the one who is called truly to be a full and full member of the community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23512	The third line is the esteemed colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23513	Thank you. Dear colleague Milas, you mentioned at one point and writing history, and this is one of the key topics of which the Croatian Defence Ministry is about, I'm talking about it now, on purpose, is one of the most invited to take care of it. We have a big problem that the real truth about the Homeland War, about the role and importance of what Croatian defenders have done in the creation of the Croatian state is not written anywhere. Our children don't know the real truth except from our dedications. In college I still remember when I was a student I had to listen to general folk defense and social protection, not to say what we had to learn from history in both elementary and high school. And our children are neither in elementary school nor in high school, and let alone in college will not find in the history textbook the real truth about the Homeland War, but we have an equalization of guilt. So when we add to that what we see in the media, then I think that really our children must at least be very confused. The publication of the register of Croatian defenders is, in our opinion, one of the first steps in writing this history. We shouldn't be ashamed of that. And in the end, I will ask one question as to why I purposely told the Croatian Defence Minister. In everything we always refer to the Croatian defenders and the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and Fund, the Foundation for Croatian Defences. And why are you the Secretary of Defense? Why aren't you the Minister of Croatian Defence? Why didn't you? Why is our ministry called the Department of Defense? Why are the new Croatian Defence Department?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23514	Time. Tinker Millas is responding to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Buric, I agree with you that it is not little but too little, so in our educational institutions, a topic called the Homeland War. If I'm not mistaken, I think it's only four hours a year that talk about the Homeland War in high school. I'm not going back 70 years or 30 so I can talk about how much it's talked about in some other class. Let's let it go. We live today in the time in which we live. But I didn't, I didn't agree with your position that when that famous list is published, I'll call it from now on a famous list that then your child will be safe and my dad is a participant of the Homeland War. If your child doesn't know it without a list or if he needs some kind of list, maybe I do, I understand you and I know you don't think so. But I have to answer the line like this now. That's the same thing as when we said here's the verdict she said we weren't fighting a criminal war, etc. Of course we knew that, but why do we always need something third to prove to us what we ourselves know? So this isn't about... This is about something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You don't have to tell us, you can be proud now. We're proud if we're proud. If we're not, then I don't know if we'll be proud of the fact that the register has been published, regardless, I don't doubt good intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23516	We continue with an individual debate, the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. What to say, there's already a lot of things being said. I will only try to look back on what is important, and that is that this law is done mostly and almost only because of the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. And it's another historic mistake that happens, just like the one that was on the edge of Pandzic when he published the disability register, like the jukebox you could come and see there that's real disabled, who isn't. Not respecting Mr. Bestek who is a man without a leg who brought him a prosthetic. He stayed with his hand in his pocket and didn't even give him his hand. He was named a fake invalid, etc. which caused deep controversy. That's how I think this publication will register. About everything else I said except what you'd bring... The law on employment is going to be a dead letter on paper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this explanation of the bill, the proposer points out that there is a legitimate need for the majority of the public to publicly publish a list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. It is taught that one of the consequences of the adoption of the law is the public availability of a list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the Croatian Defence Register. With respect to the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, as well as the law governing classified information. The new articles 109, 109b, 109c, 109d regulate the issue of the defence registry and the publication of personal data by Croatian defenders. Article 109 defines the Registrar as an official record of all persons who, on the basis of the provision of Article 2 of this Act, have recognised the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. In addition, paragraph 2 of the same Article highlights the purpose of the establishment of the Register of Croatian Advocates, in Articles 109c and 109d, the purpose of the publication of the Defence Register is to highlight the purpose of the publication of the Register. In line with the above facts, the purpose of the establishment of the Defence Register is to strengthen the integrity of defenders from the Homeland War and promote values from the Homeland War, as well as to strengthen the honour and reputation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and to collect data on all Croatian defenders from the Homeland War to a unique record of the Ministry for a faster and more effective achievement of Croatian defenders' rights from the Homeland War. The same is the purpose of publishing the list of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War. But the promoter obviously does not want to say or consciously insinuate and conceals the intention of publishing data from Croatian defenders. In the introduction of this bill, it is already pointed out that there is a legitimate need and expectation for most of the public to carry out a list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. But there is no word in any word in which the public's interest is contained which would make personal data of Croatian defenders available to that or any other public. The right of publication of the register is covered by a flossula to strengthen the integrity, honor and reputation of the defender, and it is thus clear that Article 109d, which states that data from the Defence Register will also be used for the purposes of administrative procedures conducted by the Ministry and other purposes provided for by law. What are these other purposes? And why it is not explicitly stated if the Data Protection Act in Article 6(2) provides that personal data may be collected for the purpose of which the subject is informed in this case which is explicitly stated and in accordance with the law and may continue to be processed only for the purpose for which they are collected, or for a purpose which is consistent with the purpose of collection. The purpose of the publication of the register is neither faster nor more effective in achieving the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, as these rights have been largely achieved so far since the ministry has had data on Croatian defenders for many years. And the defense population will not exercise any rights because the public knows that a defender is already based on a status certificate as stated in Article 33 of these amendments and additions. Furthermore, the basic Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in 2004 sets out the obligation of the Minister to adopt rules for the implementation of this law in his Article 108. These rules are taxed, and among them is the Regulation on the establishment of a single register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders, members of the family of the imprisoned or missing Croatian defender, Croatian wartime wartime disableds from the Homeland War and members of the Homeland War family and issuing certificates of established status. That rule was passed, and the defenders had their IDs delivered. These cards have their serial number, and can only be used with the identification of their ID card. Again, the question arises why should any other information on any Croatian defender be made public by the proposing with such an identification instrument? The same question arises as to whether the ministry is at all capable of providing and controlling the protection of personal data, since we have already had the opportunity to face unofficial publication of the register? This fear is not without reason, since the defence minister announced the publication of the register by Christmas despite the fact that these amendments and amendments to the law of Article 32 provide for the adoption of a Regulation on how to collect, manage and order data in the Defence Register, in particular in the technical, security and organisational conditions for the publication and public search of the list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. And secondly important for the Defence Registry within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. Article 44, in particular, undermining the defence population and members of their families, I consider the provision of paragraph 2 of Article 35, Article 8 of the amendment and the amendment which states that the priority in employment referred to in paragraph 1 does not apply to cases of employment in jobs established by law or other legal regulations as management posts. Well, that's what's really fraternizing. In public administration bodies, leading jobs cannot be obtained by a Croatian defender under the same conditions as everyone else. So I'm thinking what are we talking about? In other words, the Croatian Defence Minister does not consider the appropriate staff for leading jobs despite the fact that the defence attorneys, volunteers of the Croatian military disabled, members of their families and children killed, imprisoned and missing if they meet all the conditions sought. What does this law provide in case the defender gets a job using his defensive status as an advantage and goes to work in a third country? Examples of our neighborhood or beyond the EU borders? How will the fundamental human rights of any defender in such a position be protected if the register is published and the third party according to the definition provided by the Data Protection Act requires an insight into the register and, on the basis of the data collected, initiate, for example, criminal proceedings against the defenders? The Act on the Protection of Personal Data provides for such an option in its Article 7. It allows for the collection and further processing of other tax purposes and for the purpose of the execution of contracts in which the subject is involved. the defendant of the parties, and Article 11. According to the Personal Data Protection Act, the Head of the Basic Data Collection, i.e. The Ministry of Defence shall be authorised to provide basic data for the use of other recipients on the basis of a written request from the consignee if necessary in order to carry out operations under the law of established activities of the recipients. It is evident from the above that strengthening the dignity of Croatian defenders, promoting the value of the Homeland War and strengthening the honour and reputation of Croatian defenders is an extremely questionable purpose of publishing the register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and that the applicant has deliberately and deliberately hidden the need to fulfill at least one pre-election promise, obviously unaware of the possible dangers in which the defence population leads. I would like to point out, Mr. Minister, that you are invoking yourself and boasting many times that you are a non-partisan minister. I don't know whose pre-election promises you're making. Coalition authorities you're not a member of? You're not a member of any party. In front of the defenders, in front of us when we're in meetings, you say I'm impartial, and that's how I will represent the interests of Croatian defenders. I think this time it is not so and that you have put yourself in office and side of those who also caused huge court proceedings in 2001, thousands of disreputed Croatian defenders of the families of the dead who, in later court proceedings of millions, received satisfaction in courts and years were suspended in their rights. I'm afraid this time too will end. I wouldn't want you to end up the same as Hansel Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23518	Two replicas have been reported. First honorary colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23519	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Djakic, you have listed a whole series of reasons why you object to the publication of the Croatian defenders' register. We've already talked about why we think we should publish. Okay. The reasons for our thinking are the same as yours. But I'm going to give you another reason why I think it should be published. So with the publication of the Croatian Defence Register, we will get an insight into who was the Croatian defender and the public and I personally care, and I know who was with me, but I am interested in who was not in it, who would not find his place in the Croatian Defence Register and should be. My colleague Grubisic said nicely that the constitutional obligation was to defend all Croatian states and I am in favour of publishing the Croatian defence register so that I should ask the question of those who are today leading Croatia's state whether they fulfilled their constitutional obligation at the time and defended Croatia's state from the Prime Minister, through the president of the country. As far as I know at that time, they were in full force. Maybe they're in the register, and it's a great honor for our minister of defense. He is a Croatian defender. But I'm also interested in seeing those people who run the Croatian state today have fulfilled their constitutional obligation 20 years ago. It will be very interesting to me when the Croatian Defence Register is published and I am the ones I don't see there believe me to ask the question whenever I have the opportunity to meet their constitutional obligation and why they're not in that register.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23520	Reply to the replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow Buric that I would agree with you if I could really personally know from my 186 men in the company that I led, and then 1600 at the end of the battle so that I knew every man, I would agree with you. I don't know them all, and I don't know 186 people by name and last name by apartment by unit, etc. I don't know. I'd like to ask the Commander for a dozen waters if he really was with us or not. And that's why, let alone the one who wasn't anywhere. Why would he call his neighbor who went, say, and he hasn't been for 2.3 years and was in the Second Guard Brigade in Petrinja or was what I know in the first with the Tigers somewhere on the Lika battlefield or in Dubrovnik. Why would someone have the right to doubt and not be in the Homeland War... and what you'd want to see who it wasn't. That we know everyone who wasn't, we know there's every one in his résumé of every line that was he boasted in his résumé he put that counsel. Those who weren't in their résumé don't have that. Constitutional obligations were met anyway. I'm sorry the rule of law didn't work enough and not all deserters were sanctioned. There are also journalists who escaped to Slovenia one day, who should have been in prison for a long time, not to call Croatian defenders and make a joke out of them, to insult them and disrespect them. There are also those in the Croatian Parliament who have abolized and also ask the question of where who has been and that the perpetrators of crime are among us. Well, that's where we can agree, though. Although we can agree that there's a lot of what we know and we haven't done, and we should have. And you and I know who's who in this country and who's what and who's not. [[Intruder: Time.]] However, [[/Intruder: Time, time, can't now. A colleague, Djakic.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23522	Comrade Djakic... you cannot speak when you are warned that your time is up. Time and rules apply to you as well as to everyone else or you take on some greater rights. ... Well, at least you apologized. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Another replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23523	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's nice to hear that you and your colleague Buric agree, and we agree when it comes to fundamental values in any case, but I agree with you. But one thing I noticed on several occasions you mentioned the expectations of the public. And you know what the public is expecting today in our homeland? Expects economic growth, expects a decline in unemployment. And do you know what the nurses who strike today are expecting from many Croatian defenders? They expect their fundamental rights and the issue of existence not to be abolished. Do you know what my defenders from rural areas expect, farmers of the OPG who fail every day... who started to create to be active who are the best model to stay both in health and in activity? They're asking for a change of attitude towards agriculture. These are issues that the public and citizens are interested in and Croatian defenders. And now to impose under these circumstances a difficult economic opportunity tomorrow is the budget and register, etc. I hold that it is now exactly what I think in these circumstances especially... that in some way lead to certain discussions etc. and cloud some things. And absolutely there she said her waist and legal profession and everything else, and I think in that part you spoke very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23524	Representative Josip Djakic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope I don't break time. My colleague Milinkovic, yes, this is again one I told the historical mistake that will happen and this is only food for those who want to eat it, who want to live on the back of Croatian defenders on calls, applications, disrespects and insults. And I said, and one that finds itself not real will be called his commander of water, dozens, captains, brigades. The biggest thing that bothers me and worries me about this one or every brigade that one of them is, imagine all the commanders of the war brigades are being excruciated and everyone will have to get a report for why he allowed them to enter the list. The procedure led to the authorities that the ministry hired, letters sent to be established by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior made clear the breakdowns and established all who had strayed into the list of Croatian defenders and should not be put in place. I said and I will repeat, the list of Croatian defenders is not a place on the board because it is a special group of people who require due respect for Croatian citizens, not to be the subject of public talks, public discussions and public insults.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23526	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23527	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's after 6.5 hours of discussion lately, every debate has been going on for a long time, this one is particularly interesting and particularly important and sensitive. Any amendment and addition of the Law on Croatian defenders that will improve their status should be supported. And before I comment on some of the good proposals of this law for me to refer to that part of these amendments to the law that caused the most debate, it is the publication of the Croatian Defence Register. I see the purpose of publishing this register only in the fact that we know the truth about the Homeland War. The truth is very important in human lives. We have also discussed not only the public but also in this House many times lately the truth in World War II, the crimes committed in this war and after that war. The truth is important, it is important to establish that this chapter is concluded once. So I believe that the truth about the Homeland War must be brought to an end once because if we talk about 500 000 Croatian defenders and we often hear one say there were no 500 000 of us, others say there were 500 000 of us. I think it's because of us that it's in our interest to once put the point on and, and say, either there were so many of us or there weren't so many of us. And why it's important, important, because of the manipulations that have been said here today. Someone here today said from a colleague, I hope those who have no idea about the Homeland War decide who he was, who he wasn't. And precisely because of those who don't know about the Homeland War, because of our children tomorrow we have to determine that truth, we have to subscribe the data to who it was, and who it wasn't because everything else leads to manipulations and confusion, and especially then it reflects, and that's what you mentioned here in the discussion that we in the textbooks actually don't have complete truth. I, of course, have no illusions that the publication of the register will establish the truth but will at least interrupt this public debate as many people have participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. As for the dangers of registering, I just don't know if you're going to jail because you were a Croatian defender or because you possibly committed a crime in the Homeland War. And in that sense, then the danger at this level that's being said I don't see as real. It was said here in the debate and I think that my colleague Ivić said, he used the word embarrassingly that only in 2005 was the register actually established and in that sense I really see the cause of the situation in which we found ourselves today. These things were supposed to be resolved before but since they weren't solved now they came as hot potatoes for discussion. And what are the other reasons why this register should be published? Someone mentioned here and I had a chance to talk to the defenders and indeed, defenders when you ask them they don't mind having a register published. I'd also mention our dead friends I believe also if they didn't mind having this register published. It is stated here in the objectives that the law seeks to achieve that the public availability of the list of Croatian defenders is, with respect to the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Law which regulates the confidentiality of classified data and, if these provisions are respected, then I see no reason for panic and for all the dangers listed. Now I will look only at two, three things that seem important to me in the law, and from the previous debate, I would disagree that such provisions should not be incorporated into this law. Let's say it's an advantage in employment. Of course, every opportunity for a job is very important, especially for defense attorneys who, by the way, failed to exercise any other rights and other benefits related to participation in the Homeland War. The only part I don't like about the law, and maybe I should think about it, is that provision that reduces that advantage if the defendant with the previous employer has concluded an agreement on the termination of the contract. If you only think of public services here then that's okay, but if you think of the private sector then that provision is not good. The second thing, related to the implemented fighting sector, two, three years of those defenders who didn't provide housing, is, of course, good, and I don't think that if there's no money now that such provisions should not be introduced into laws. We are witnesses, take just an example of the Association of Parents of the Dead Defendants, of course following the passage of the time of old people, that does not mean that this association should be put out when there are no more members of that association. That's what I consider legal provisions, and now they need to be introduced, so when there's a chance, I guess one day that right will come true. I would even extend these rights here in terms of all those defenders who participated in the Homeland War, who remained, who later returned to their businesses, lost their jobs, who built houses from their work, to enable them to be regularly. You can tell by Slavonia a lot of cases because people have failed to finish those houses. They have no facades, no heating, and even allow those people to either subsidize interest, or in any other way help to resolve their housing issue to the end. As far as I'm concerned, I see that an important solution to abolishing or declaring the nullity of those provisions on permanent monetary rights of persons who were not members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, as this requires considerable resources, is simply not good. And of course we should welcome the appointment of defenders to historically significant persons and, of course, that the units of local self-government don't require much funding, they can take care of the marking of such graves. Of course, all other rights related to widows and other members should be welcomed. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23528	Here's your exposure caused three replicas. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, I can agree with what you said in the part of the amendments and the addition of the law, so which will support simply saying better lives of defenders and members of their families. But in my opinion, you presented a dangerous thesis when you said that the person who has the prefix of the Croatian defender simply has nothing to fear. Are you saying I'm going to go back to what some said, that Purda had nothing to be afraid of either because he was guilty or if what nobody wants to happen happens, put handcuffs on a border crossing or somewhere else because he's enrolled by neither me knowing who, by whatever or how to check it out a day, two, five or three months. It doesn't matter, or we're gonna put him on handcuffs right now if they call him a criminal. What? I'm thinking about what's going on. You have to explain it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23530	The reply to the replica please choose the Honorable Representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23531	My dear colleague, I'll try to explain it this way. So, in the debate, I said I don't see danger, and that doesn't mean that that danger doesn't exist. I personally don't see it now and I'm not convinced by colleagues who used to say that such a danger exists, but that doesn't mean that it doesn't exist. I'm the only one who says I don't see her like that. If these arrests were and without the publication of this register we can't do it, we can only hypothetically discuss it. But anyway, I'm saying in that part, I'm just logically bringing out thesis. If someone was a member, actually the Croatian defender that he was not therefore responsible for it. So, he is a member of the Croatian Army, and if someone is responsible, without publication or publication of the register. That's all I wanted logically.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23532	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23533	Dear colleague, in your debate, you have particularly touched the importance of the truth, and that is unusually important. The truth about the Homeland War is the task of all of us. But when we talk about the truth and the danger that the Croatian defenders' register could possibly be presented as Croatian defenders. We're not running away from reality. It is not the publication of the Croatian defenders' register of dangers for Croatian defenders against Serbian indictments, but because we have not defined ourselves within Croatia according to the Croatian defender's right to bear the honorary name of the Croatian defender. So I'll remind you. At the Serbian prosecution's findings and in the case of Mr. Purda and Mr. Veljko Maric when they said the grounds for bringing charges were not committed, but the destruction of the constitutional and legal order of the SFRY. And that is why we point to the cowardice of the Croatian judiciary's findings in the rulings to Croatian generals who wrote that aggression on the Republic of Croatia began only on 8 October 1991. It is written in the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. And he doesn't need anything else from the Serbian prosecutor's office to say, but he took that verdict and said, "All those who put on a uniform before October 7th are the destroyers of the constitutional and legal order of the SFRY and that's the basis for their persecution." So we need to clear it first inside our home in Croatia, agree everything when the Homeland War started. And aggression is, the balvana revolution began on August 17th. The first Croatian director on August 5th yes, but then there is no way it started until October 8th. It is a danger to Croatian defenders. If we are not within Croatia, then we will lose the court against Serbia and therefore point to danger and such findings. This is clearly about General Glavas' verdict.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23534	Thank you very much. There's no answer. Next we have a replica of that Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Žagar, was talking about the priority of hiring Croatian defenders who are somewhere around 30,000 on the employment desk and that's the thing that doesn't cost, and it's good, which can even contribute... the budget of all those who do not respect the legal provisions on the employment of Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only one has grounds and legal power, and it will certainly be carried out. This other one is just as good as a suggestion. I am not against that good, but the law must only be passed on the basis of what is budgetaryly defined. The necessary financial resources must be known otherwise it cannot be valid. We can't tell the eye or how it's going to be, so we'll see in the race how much we're going to get, how much the Minister's budget is going to be filled out. That doesn't make any sense to me that in the race we're going to be dealing with the problems of living care of our volunteers. We haven't solved these either. Let's go solve these 13,000 and then find a model for these. But good. You put the law in if you pass, most people will probably bring it. I would just like to say one more thing, yes, and the proposal of this register I am sure will be apart from what Mr. Buric has led to the collapse of the constitutional-legal order, it is one possibility if there are no others, and other options are those you can write – yes, he participated in that and that, he was there and there, he committed a crime against that and the team. And at the border of Central Security, Banja Luka, report the lists of those chosen ones and how you get those chats. And now you prove it, prove it, and you're not among the state acts trying to get rid of certain things, but it all died after the election of a new government in Serbia. And I also think that in BiH, given that the minister of justice did not give the authority to extradite and launch criminal persecution for war crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23536	Thank you very much. Your line will be answered by a distinguished representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23537	Here's my colleague Djakic. I just needed to confirm this. You said you didn't agree with the part where the legal provisions include that part of the budget that doesn't actually have confirmation yet. But I still think it's good because that right won't go away. If we now introduce the rights that people have she will because it can happen now if we don't introduce it, the next assembly of the Parliament doesn't have to introduce it, and at that moment there can be money. You understand? Time goes by, the Homeland War is already far behind us, unfortunately, it's actually a good thing that there are still people who care about the dignity of the Homeland War, about the status of all the participants of the Homeland War, and this debate has shown that there is also an interest here in the assembly, and there is a huge public interest. In that sense, I said that any such intervention is welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23538	Thank you very much. Now it is time for the debate to be held by a respected representative, Zeljko Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Let me get involved in this debate as part of the '91 Homeland War. Until '95, and like the one who worked on those exact lists in his unit. I know how responsible the job is and how this population of Croatian defenders reacts to it, and that is why I say in the introduction that I support this bill. On the basis of the implementation of your Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, it can be estimated that the law is good because it is a full contribution to building a quality system of rights for Croatian defenders and members of their families. However, several legal gaps have been observed. During the implementation of the law so far, certain groups of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families were not recognised in terms of recognition of certain rights. So, for example. So far, Croatian defenders from the Homeland War have not been able to identify the regulations that, after many years of participation in the Homeland War, have dealt with their families' housing needs with their own by their own means without a single kuna of state incentives. Also, they were not recognized by widows of Croatian wartime wartime invalids who had lost any income for life because at the time of their marriage, they had not completed 50 years of life, and they could not find employment in the labour market because of the unfavourable conditions we have faced for a long time. According to the provisions of the applicable law, it is possible to obtain the right to a widow or parent's family pension after the death of persons with disabilities from the Croatian Ombudsman from the Homeland War who has until death been recognised by the Croatian military disabled first group with the right to compensation for the assistance and care of another person if that status is recognised because of the consequences of the wound or injury. However, widows or parents of Croatian wartime disabled persons from the Homeland War who were recognised to be the status of the first group of Croatian wartime disabled and whose death was caused by the disease resulting from damage to the organism due to a wound or injury on the basis of which the disability of the Homeland War One was recognised after the death of a Croatian wartime invalid does not have the right to pension insurance under the Family Pensions Act. Furthermore, according to the current Article 24 of the Law, only members of the family of the death-suffering Croatian defender from the Homeland War whose death is caused by the wound, injury, disease, disease, or the outbreak of the disease acquired in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia have the right to retire under this law. However, widows of Croatian military disabled people from the Homeland War 1st and 2nd groups with a recognised right of compensation for assistance and care based on which death occurs for some reason beyond the circumstances of defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, for example. The consequences of the car accident or other accidents following his death cannot be entitled to a family pension under the law, as they are considered to be members of the family of the death-sufficient Croatian defender referred to in Article 3 and not according to the general rule if they do not have at least 50 years of life at the time of death, or at least 45 years of life, which is most often the case. Therefore, these widows often do not have an age to exercise the right to a family pension under the general rule, and they are no longer able to return to the labour market in view of age as equal participants. Also, the widow of the Croatian defenders loses the rights under this law by entering into marriage or the extramarital union, which are foreseen by the status of members of the family of the death-sufficient Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the deceased Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War from the first to the fourth group. Namely, the Declaration of the Homeland War, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 13 October 2000, determined that the Republic of Croatia would provide all Croatian defenders, families of the dead and victims of the Homeland War with full protection, dignity and care. Since the Republic of Croatia was unable to settle once and the damages to all members of the family of the deadly Croatian defender from the Homeland War have been determined for rent payment in the form of a monthly family disability. Under the provisions of the applicable law, married or out-of-marriage friends lose the right to continue to pay the monthly disability, the damages and thus get damaged as they have not received one-off compensation from the Republic of Croatia after which they would normally be able to conclude a new marriage or set up an extramarital community. The loss of the right acquired by law in the event of the conclusion of a new marriage or extramarital union is considered not to be in line with the reached sense of civilization progress. Furthermore, there is a need to take far greater care of those groups of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who have so far not been subject to regulations that provide for the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. This also refers to children who were killed by prisoners and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who were left without parental care. There is a need to protect the dignity of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who have died in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia or have been imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, who have been exhumed and identified in a situation where no one is paid for their grave places in which they are buried, and the prescribed compensation for maintaining a grave site because they do not have living family members. There is also a legitimate need and the expectation of a majority of the public to publicly publish a list of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. After all, there are many cases where employers do not implement Article 35. A law that provides for an advantage in the employment of certain groups of members of the family of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders, as well as Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and Croatian wartime wartime wartime peoples from the Homeland War. Therefore, the need to further strengthen this obligation for employers and to extend criminal sanctions in the event of non-compliance with it is highlighted. The proposed changes and consequences that should be caused, as the first favourable conditions for a family pension as regards the years of age of widows of the deceased Croatian wartime invalid from the Homeland War, the first and second groups to whom an allowance for the assistance and care of another person has been granted to death. Accordingly, it is proposed that widows of the dead Croatian wartime invalids from the Homeland War 1st and other groups with 100% damage to the organisms who were granted the right to pay for the care and assistance of another person... of this law and who died because of sickness or injury arising outside the circumstances of the defence sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia have the right to a family pension provided that at the time of their death they were 40 years old, the height of the family pension is determined in accordance with the Pension Insurance Act. In this regard, these most difficult disabled persons with the dead Croatian defenders contributed most to the creation of a new Croatian state. Therefore, it is proposed to protect the widows of the dead Croatian military disabled in the first and second groups where death occurred due to diseases or injuries that did not arise in connection with participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in such a way as to ensure that they have a more favourable age condition for obtaining the right to a family pension. In this way, the widows of the dead Croatian military disabled first and second groups are assured of existential security. Then strengthening the right of advantage in hiring and introducing new criminal sanctions for non-compliance with this right which I have already said something about. The recognition of the right to housing care of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who participated in the Homeland War for a long time. So the volunteers from the Homeland War are members of the combat sector who have not achieved the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalid who have participated in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia for at least two years, who have been entitled to resident care for the award of financial support in the purchase of the first real estate on the market, in which the regulations are foreseen from the Homeland War with 20% damage to the organism, and the volunteers from the Homeland War are members of the fighting sector who do not have reached the status of Croatian wartime invalid and who have participated in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia for at least three years and are more eligible for housing care to grant financial support. The status of Croatian Homeland War defenders will also be able to achieve a person who, in the appropriate procedure, has established a voluntary abandonment or abandonment of a unit without the permission of the competent commander for the period of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia which is not covered by a judicial verdict. The rights of Croatian defenders and their families are also lifted and reduced... I must, given that my time is running out Yeah, well, let me do it just in the end. [[Intruder: It's already expired.]] I don't think this population that I belong to really means I didn't tell you I was a member of the 138th Goran brigade with which I have more or less of a year of daily contacts, and I don't think there's any reason why the Croatian Defence Register wouldn't be published, though. I think it would be good for taxpayers to really know what from their tax obligations is finally paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23540	Thank you very much. The following debate was followed by distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic, I don't see her here, losing her right to debate. And then there's the next debate between the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23541	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing this for a long time, so let's just short telegraph a few thesis that I think we should say. The first question is whether or not this law will answer the question of who was the Croatian defender. The law, at least for those who have the privilege of saying or having the right of the ministry, will, within one year of the adoption of the law, provide a solution that does not all have the right to that status. However, I sincerely doubt that within a year not these MPs on this side will agree, but the SDP representatives will agree on who is the defender because Mr Vidovic said there is no division in any state in the fighting and non-combating sector. Mr. Ronko has advocated that people's protection should go in as well. Mr. Mirkovic stood for another category. I'm just talking about that there are no defined criteria for who should be covered by the definition of Croatian defenders and on the other hand that it went negatively, that even 150 000 were said to have those who later remembered that they were defenders, and that they were not predicted to include those who were so far not committed to the criteria or criteria which determine that they should be defenders. Another criterion and another question being raised has been rejected with the wrong argument that this puts national interests at risk and then begins with our courts or our views and relations with the defenders. The threat of national interests by definition comes from outside, and we have one situation so that, for example, I illustrate it with the example of Veljko Marić, that the Croatian citizen was tried for crimes against other Croatian citizens made on Croatian territory in a third country, and that Croatia has no authority or that such practice cannot be prevented or that there is no sovereignty to take charge of its own citizens, whether they are guilty or not. On the other hand, the fact is that the policies, left or right in Serbia, were from President Tadic's previous to President Nikolic's view that the storm was the biggest ethnic cleansing since World War II, that it was the biggest crime, that it should be tried. Given the legal situation it is in Serbia, it is not unrealistic to expect that there will be a number of these attempts to start judging, and then this registry will serve as any official document on troops and on people who participated in such crimes. On the third hand, it is legal practice not to our own, but to use the legal instruments or evidence of former JNA military prosecutors for examples if I am not mistaken, that our citizens, as already said, are being accused of destroying the SFRY, or used extortions instead of such and priorities documents or evidence being rejected. Unfortunately, our judiciary has no jurisdiction whatsoever. Therefore, such a publication endangers such procedures that can be initiated. For an additional reason, you know that for many years, some countries, in order for Croatian citizens to receive a visa, have to give statements in which units they were or were not. Part of these not only for visas, perhaps someone has exercised some other rights, if the data that was given at that time with data from the register is not matched, and these citizens will be damaged or threatened. I already said today in the discussion, you have one test that there is no way that Croatia can publish the names of UNPROFOR members, UNCRO observers, etc. Why, for the same reason, because it is about international organisations or if it is about members of individual armies simply protecting their members from any possible institutional processing, whether they are looking for justice that will then begin to consider themselves to be a member of international troops or Croatian troops to have done some kind of injustice to them. So that's the problem. In short, Article 36 shows: In order to overcome and mitigate the consequences of the Homeland War, the Ministry shall implement the following programmes, etc. Well, you should probably put here not the consequences of the Homeland War but the consequences of aggression on the Republic of Croatia. Well, we don't resolve the consequences of the Homeland War that we've been leading in defense, but the consequences of the aggression that has been carried out. Furthermore, if you think seriously about this register, for these reasons that I have stated I think it can lead to damage, that it will not lead to agreement on the criteria of who is all the Croatian defender, but if you are serious about this register why then the defenders, why does this register not serve as evidence of those who approve or seek employment but must be removed from the register in order to bring it somewhere, in order to get priority in employment or what is foreseen. It would be normal if that register was an official document that anyone could then specify I did, please check where it is. Therefore, there are a number of reasons, a series of problems that are being opened here, and they are not being solved, and it would be smarter and better if this law were to be done thoroughly if it were already to go, because this will only lead to a lot of major traumas and bumps than it will do good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23542	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused four replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23543	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Your Honor, Mr. Tudjman, we're obviously leaving with two different concepts. This side here is for the register to be published and I will say again as I believe the vast majority of the Croatian public. On the other hand, you're not up for it. And now we find a hundred reasons why, you hundred reasons why not. But what remains at the end of the ballad is '96. years as quoted by the late President Dr. Franjo Tudjman presented the information he provided. I truly believe that he was as commander-in-chief, as the man who waged the war, who was at the head of the Croatian force that he was indeed well informed. Our intensity isn't that on the basis of a register of anyone being persecuted, disgraced, or God forbid any of it. In fact, it's exactly the opposite. Our intensity is to point out those who are truly real defenders. As for the combat and non-combat sectors, Mr. Vice President also commented at one point. I was on the line, I was working, etc. The doctors in Sibenik did the same. You're not any non-combat defender in that case, but you're a fact-finding defender like I am, just like anyone else. Either you are or you're not. If you were here, if you worked here, then you're a defense attorney. And I think that's what's only interested in true Croatian defenders who he was and who he wasn't. And that's the basic story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23544	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23545	Thank you very much. First you read yourself there that President Tudjman said 300,000 mobilized, and you need to know that someone would be mobilized to be on the front line he should have both arms and ammunition and supplies and all together. Therefore, all countries recognise not only the fighting system, but also the non-combating system. Please don't tell me if we need to talk about the basic facts, then we'll bring them here if you want military envoys and let them tell you about it. So that's the ratio I said at least 1:4, and it goes to 1:8, and it comes from the character of the war being fought. And Croatia fought a defensive war. Therefore, the problem is that it is difficult to tell who is and who is not. I mean, my colleague here was talking about Sunja where there was an almost movie example of how there was a war and how everyone was head in the same pot. Therefore, to claim that only one who was on the front line was waging a defensive war is simply the wrong setting because it leads to a false conclusion about the character of the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23546	Thank you very much. And Reverend Djakic has something to say about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's Mr. Tudjman, you've talked about this, the security aspects of the publication of the register of Croatian defenders and the consequences that are certain. They are certainly coming and therefore those who worked in the Intelligence Community, today's SOA, as well as the former SOA who were in the enemy ranks and troops how you think these people will live tomorrow when you publish the register and when they recognize them that they were and worked in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. If you want to talk specifically, then these are really obstacles to a part of the people who have gained the status of Croatian defender who have worked in the interest of Croatia and are members of Serbian nationality. They were among their ranks. What do you mean to protect you if it's not a state secret and you don't classify it as a state secret? Let's be specific. You put people who have done good to the Croatian state in an uninvited position and will surely have consequences. Whether there's a prosecution or not we'll see. Because our judicial authorities at the level of state prosecutors, including the ministries, signed certain agreements before the change of government in Serbia that speak of respect, encouragement, exchange of data and everything else, including raising red warrants that allow both the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the prosecution of those who would possibly be accused by Serbia of any activity that was against their country, and especially the Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which was formed in Serbia to prosecute Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23548	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Tudjman's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The fact is that we had our sources on the other side, that they held, had their head in a bag far greater than anyone was on the front line. And that I don't know honestly because I didn't go to make sure that they were or aren't in the current list, the defense register, but in any case, they do belong there. And so all those who worked here in the reporting service also wore their heads in the bag when they went to those meetings, meetings, and did so. On the other hand, I don't know how it was solved because I wasn't looking at it, I wasn't interested. But you had, when we went back to the question of the combat, non-combat sector, or whether it was involved, about the establishment of the Ministry of Defence and the Military Police and the SIS and the IPD were in the Ministry of Defence, and they were deployed by troops of the fighting forces. And now by what standard are you going to classify them? Like a combat or a non-combat sector? So there's a series of misunderstandings and things aren't black as white as they want to be shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23550	Thank you very much. The next is that respected representative, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23551	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Professor. Tudjman said at some point, if I've registered correctly, how by definition the threat of national security comes from outside. I cannot fully agree with you, although I know that you are the very expert in this area because, by definition, the sources of national security threats can be external and internal. They can also be armed aggression, so an attack by another state, but they can also be an internal armed rebellion, they can be terrorist activities, they can be spying, they can be a diversion. These are all sources of threat to national security. And one of them is politically motivated violence. And when you said we were moving to some sort of verdict, so on and so forth. Listen, I'll tell you, remind all of us that we're all talking, we've brought the Declaration of the Homeland War, in which we have decededly stated that the Homeland War is the basis of the creation of an independent and independent Republic. If the Croatian judiciary, regardless of who it is and whose verdict it is written, if the Croatian judiciary finds and gives such qualifications on the Homeland War, which did not begin on October 8, 1991. In the year, then the Croatian judiciary and those judges who wrote this are jeopardizing the constitutional and legal foundations of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not a lawyer, I speak like a layman, but I say that people understand me. You deny me, if it's not a violation of the constitutional and legal foundation of the formation of the Republic of Croatia, then I don't know what we're talking about. Therefore, the threat of national security may well come from within.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23552	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, as far as the definition of independence and this is concerned, there are better lawyers who will probably confirm the country becomes independent when it declares itself independent, not when others accept it. This is by definition by the UN, or by international standards. As far as this is concerned, I did say yes, but I said in principle it comes or by definition comes from the outside, and I'm not excluding a threat to national security from within. But it's usually divided into national security and public security. Then this would be a matter of public security, or an internal problem. But the clear thing is that endangering one society, one state, one system can be on the inside, and we don't have to rule out that we're not ourselves enough to cause such threats.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23554	Thank you very much. The last replica is that of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23555	Thank you. Well, here you are, Mr. Tudjman, very consistently in the first 5.6 minutes of your presentation, you have also presented the outlines of that Serbian policy that has one constant claim in various forms, and it attacks in some way in the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. And I would agree entirely with the way you presented it and how you defined it. Of course, this question is whether, and then you linked it to the context of the publication of this Croatian Defence Register which did not seem too convincing to me to be truthfully speaking. I don't think it has much to do with the Croatian Defence Register. It certainly has to do with the work of the state bodies, the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, it has to do with it before, it has to do with it now, and it will have to do with it in the future. To a good extent, for example, with the work of the State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia and the State's Attorney's Office, which could certainly and had to take a whole series of measures that had not been taken and continued. However, however, the fact is that the state policy of the Republic of Serbia has always been different than the state policy of today, and it will remain different because the people are still different. However, these historical circumstances are different and despite certain aggression and policy that is always present according to the Republic of Croatia results and that final balance I think is definitely both on the side of Croatia and on the side of those results which the Republic of Croatia has achieved over the past 22 years of its independence. And here's to the end today's statement by Sava Strbc: "The circle is closed, the Serbs remain the bad guys, the aggressors, the criminals and all the other victims of the wicked Serbs." Unfortunately, I agree with Sava Strbec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23556	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23557	Well, Mr. Vice President, this is about, so like you said yourself about policies that not only, I forgot to mention, and you and the Republika Srpska are not just Serbia that will be run and implemented on one side. On the other hand, I said there is the inability of the Croatian judiciary to react in such cases when precedents are created to prosecute Croatian citizens for real or fictitious crimes on Croatian territory and committed against Croatian citizens. There is no such example or at least I do not know that it is common practice. On the other hand, you have examples of not speaking here whether someone is guilty or not the Americans are not allowing anyone to judge their citizens. Therefore, it is simply a matter of how to protect Croatian citizens, especially when I believe that most of this case will be politically provoked to some on the international stage, rather than to have someone sanctioned. The problem with publishing a register unlike what was said by publishing a monograph where names are mentioned, publishing a register is an official document he no longer has to prove, he serves as an argument that it is so. If you have a monograph, then you have to have more witnesses to confirm that a unit's name is an automatic pathway, or I don't know what's said there. And let's not be naive that this register will not be used for that purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23558	Thank you very much. The last debate on this subject is the distinguished representative of Zeljko Kolara.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23559	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian defence ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Mrs. Kosor and Mr. Milas calmed down the debate and began to talk argumentably about amendments and additions to the law. The defenders were upstairs at the gallery and left very quickly. When it was a club debate, it was a shame that Mrs. Kosor didn't pick up earlier and she said the heart was carrying us but... with her head and calm down and start talking about the law because it's the first reading. And a much more quality debate was when we came to an individual debate when it began to speak slowly and while it was in the name of clubs as if it were a competition to how much more we would lift up the plates for replicas and answer to those others to prove that we were right. There are some colleagues who haven't reported for a debate on the bill's proposal, and they've raised a replica plate at least 20 times what is their right, but if they've had 20 times something to say in the replica, then they've probably had and that's why they're calling in the debate and saying something about the law. I think their contribution would have been much greater if they had come forward for the debate and expressed their opinion than that they had replicated 20 times to those colleagues who probably read the law well, probably who knew the law very well, some who had the opportunity and applied it and thus contributed to this debate. What's new now after all these hours is that we're rereading what we're doing with this law that we're breaking the widows, whether we're going to have money for these new categories that we've put in order to possibly get an apartment or not. It's completely unnecessary. But we were talking about the truth about the Homeland War. In 2000, the Parliament passed the Declaration of Homeland War. But he gave us someone else to blame for not talking enough about home war all these years in the education system, so are we going to put that guilt on someone else or is it our fault and can we still correct it? Can we still say in the education system there must be more talk about the Homeland War? We know what our war was, that it was defensive that he was just that we had the right to defend ourselves and that we had the right to have action Storm and return those areas to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. That's what we knew. With this verdict, the generals and the international community have now given us the right. Now, will the publication of the Defense Register close that story? He won't. That's for sure. There will always be certain individual things that will happen, only the question of how long after that will we publicly try to use it for a daily political purpose? That's the question, is it going to be a responsibility? Was there 350,000 defenders 367 or 500 grand? Are we going to know that by publishing the register? Hardly. If we're going to talk again about what the fighting sector is, which is the non-combat sector, so if it goes 1:4 so if we were 500 thousand, then if it goes 1:4, that means that 2 million people were involved. Well, at the very least, if we're going to talk about this, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were somehow involved in the Homeland War. The qualitative basis of this debate is that we can and the minister is here all the time and he listened carefully to every MP and every club that could say that in the second reading we will come to a further improvement of this law. He said well I don't know someone you can always find 10 reasons to defend something and 10 reasons to attack something but the fact is that none of us, regardless of whether he spent three years, five years, was he an officer, an officer, or was he an "ordinary defender" none of us speak right on behalf of all the defenders. And as I said in one replica, opinions are not clear. And I also spoke in Vukovar when I was with the defenders... for the generals in Zabok when we had a conversation with the defenders, today on the way to the Parliament I spoke with the defenders. There are those who are for publication, and there are those who oppose it. And we'll never reconcile that situation. But the fact is if anything else is going to be published and he wasn't going to have the shame of himself, it's of itself the greatest shame and the greatest thing that can happen to him. And the truth about the Homeland War and why it's not in the education system is that we have to ask ourselves. It is no one else's fault, and a different association of defenders from Krapina-Zagorje County has made a film one study about the Homeland War and asked the Ministry of Education correspondent, she received and visited all the Zagorje schools and defenders to lecture children about the Homeland War. Who's stopping us from doing this? No one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23560	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first is the respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, I'll just refer to this last one that we've all been for that Homeland War is pure, fair, liberating and there was no hatred. I wouldn't agree with you. I was present in the past of the 2011 Storm. The then Prime Minister hailed General Gotovina and Markac's stage, the stadium clapped, there were those who did not rise up. I remember them well, I remember them. Not everyone thought so a year before the acquittal. Not everyone thought so in '91. the year on the need for sovereignty, freedom and independence of Croatia. Not everyone rose up in support of the generals when it was publicly spoken from a pay phone at the storm celebration in.... It's a shame that these same ones are now talking about how the Homeland War is clean, no stains, and how generals are the ones they've always stood behind. They did not always stand, nor were they all for the freedom of the Croatian homeland. As far as registers and numbers are concerned, the ministry's data is clearly speaking and they are a fact that is unimpeached. An army without logistics never wins, an army without support never wins, an army without structure is not an army.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23562	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23563	I don't think about the war strategy here with you, because we've been fighting in our area, and then you should probably know something about it, so logistics is something else when you're fighting at home and when you're fighting outside. That's two different things. If we want to politicize, we'll talk about who did what in '91. In '95, 2000, 2005 we'll go back to where we started and we'll talk again about who didn't let anyone talk to, who delivered who, who did. Let's stop it, don't keep calling it, General Gotovina said the war is over so try and swallow it too. Try to swallow it and figure it out. Calling each other over and over again is no use at all. I think the minister said the years are going, the uniform was 24, now it's 45. We're not young, we're getting old. Therefore, and unfortunately with time, it will need less and less money in the state budget for defenders, not more and more. However, if you have followed the budget and when it has been discussed, it is envisaged that the budget for defenders will grow minimally in 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23564	Thank you very much. The next replica is those respected representatives of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23565	Thank you very much. Comrade Kolar, you said nicely that you were traveling to the Parliament today talking to the defenders and otherwise and always and I believe every day actually and that there are those who are to publish the register and there are those who are against, who are fiercely opposed and, of course, it is logical that here in the assembly since the proposed publication of the register there are also those who are in favour, but there are also those who are against. I don't think it's politicizing, that if, of course, the one who says that it's against the publication of the register, it's valid to argue, therefore, with its arguments. My arguments are the Constitution, the laws, of course the name and last name as personal data and, of course, with little more experience in the work, care for Croatian defenders and members of their families from what is called daily life. You do well as sometimes or very often one wrong word, one wrong move among people who are rightly frustrated because defenders think that Croatia is not who they fought for. And when we talk about the rule of law and when they see a number of affairs, when they see trials for corruption and crime, and then often there may be only one drop missing that sheds a glass to actually make the flood of frustration, anger. And that's why I was saying that when something is promised through the law, when a new right is announced, a new right for housing is announced here, which is certainly from this superficial assessment of us working at the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, means additional non-significant material resources and budget, an increase in budget. Why does it matter to know? The defenders often react rightly if one of the rights of their country, guaranteed by the Croatian Parliament, cannot be realised and therefore I have warned here about those funds that we should then and for 2013, as well as projections for the next two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23566	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Your Honor, Agent Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23567	Dear colleague Kosor, when I was talking about politicizing here, I didn't think about you, and right at first I said that your debate and debate from Mr. Milos had led the debate in the direction in which it should go. However, we have often been called upon to trust the institutions. I trust my minister. Here says the public availability of a list of Croatian defenders from the National War Register of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War with respect to the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the laws governing the secrecy and classification of data and that this is such a publication of the data that it is in accordance with the law. If the Croatian Defence Minister proposes such a law, he represents the institutions of the Croatian state and I trust him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23568	Thank you very much. The last replica is the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Kolar, you've been evaluating the entire debate today in your debate. That's how I experienced it. In some ways you have also referred certain criticisms to the participants in the debate, you have touched even the Rules of Procedure. I believe that the Rules of Procedure certainly allow, and that on such a problem, we really have a lot to say and that it is argued and correct. And in that part, I agree that in the second reading that you said there would be improvement. And he has to come, and there's got to be a colleague of Kolar getting better anyway. But there's another thing I want to say. What I'm saying is that he has to take care of the status of the defender, and you see this budget doesn't give us that, it doesn't guarantee us. He doesn't guarantee that budget. And secondly, you've touched the education system, and I agree with you that in any case, the education system should in some way be strengthened in that sense in which you spoke. But you touched the educational system very well today when the educators strike, when the nurses strike dear colleagues, and many of them were Croatian defenders and fight for basic existence. I appeal to you to advocate because you are a member of the ruling coalition to advocate and for these, therefore, our employees. We all advocate the knowledge society, for good health care, and of course you will also help Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23570	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed representative, Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23571	Dear colleague Vinkovic, we differ in some policy matters. We could go with a smaller, cut state budget deficit, we could secure wages lose credit rating. Our government decided otherwise. We deal with these consequences that will bring today's strike. I understand your need to mention agriculture every time, but you know the defenders were and I was, geodetics and nurses and tokar workers and everyone. Let's not, what you just did that Mrs. Kosor didn't do, and that's what you did now, it's purely politicizing. And once someone comes to the conclusion that there's life on the moon, you'll probably put our farm in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23572	Thank you very much. That's what we'd like to conclude. And does he want the Honorable Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23573	Mr. Vice President, I want to thank all of you at the end of this day, but for me, it's over. I don't know if you're staying yet. I thank everyone for the constructive, even those other discussions we had during the day. I apologize to anyone I've ever done in any way if I've offended or hurt someone, it wasn't my intention. Excuse me. But those who know me and who don't even know me know that these dozens of changes, the amendments to the laws that we've put in place to amend the Law on the rights of the defenders, that I'm going to defend them fiercely, and that I'm going to take a terrible, terrible stand for them, and that we didn't propose them, that we don't have all the parameters for these provisions to be implemented. This part around the register I know that mostly HDZ representatives don't like that provision. I don't have anyone, I don't even have some too much explanation why, but I can understand that they're against it. Dear friend Jopa, therefore, the Defence Registry will not be published on the tarab, and not everyone will enjoy and oversee it. Please and call anyone who can when there is a public presentation of the register you will see that it will be published in a controlled approach with identification. Whether it means something or not, so I'm not gonna go surfing like that. He will introduce himself to his OIB, JMBG, who wants to surf the browser. And here we leave until the second reading if anything is acceptable we will accept. I'm saying, on the matter of national protection, unfortunately, we don't know that number. We all know, here's the former minister, the minister trying to get rid of that status. But they themselves don't know if it's 5, 15, 55. We have information from the MORH that there are as many as 120,000 people. That would be the number of defenders, regardless of what this story has been all about here, combative, non-combating, and we stress that we are not interested in combat non-combating at all, but whether you were a defender or not, which Professor Tudjman has repeatedly emphasized. To me personally, and I know that to other defenders, it's important whether or not you were. Everyone contributed to that segment of theirs where there was a gunman, and a doctor with his bag. Finally, here's just someone else mentioned here and put me in the context of some government measures that haven't been implemented in terms of health, agriculture, economy, education. I don't want to comment on it, and I don't want to, because I'm the Secretary of Defense. And what we talked about today is from the vault, from the jurisdiction that belongs to me. I prepared it along with my co-workers at the ministry. I'm defending, defending, and I think it's a good, excellent amendment to the law. And maybe another sentence. I can't resist this for housing. So the housing will be carried out with as much resources as we have is being extended right, that list will be entered by people who get it right. We all agree, and you don't have to do this officially or unofficially now to have defenders who spent five years in the war and in any case their contribution, and yet not wanting to reduce anyone else's more than 20 percent disabled. We all know that. And finally here is Mr. Buric said many others, I hope that in the next occasion, we will certainly and finally get a consensus in this House, on the topic of learning in the Homeland War, the Ministry of Defence is planning, and the former ministry has been launching this initiative until the next year, to establish a public institution in Vukovar Memorial centre where 8th grade primary schools, and 2400 of them, will come to a 2-day visit to Vukovar as the starting point of a new modern Croatian state where they will one day learn about Vukovar and the second day learn about all the rest of the Homeland War. And the third part of the program would be for each child to visit the nearest part, the nearest battlefield to its place of residence. We believe that according to the times of the 21st century, it would be quite enough to learn about the Homeland War that we do not do what the predecessors did when there was a lot to know, when children were forced to know something from World War II, and when they were forced to do it on purpose, they did not want to learn. We will declare it, this is if God declares it 3.05 by the day of Vukovar, and with 1.01.2014 that institution will start working actively. I thank you all once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23574	Thank you very much. But we also have two replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23575	I'm glad to hear this, of course, but they won't either, so let's not just stand for it to be a first step. Because it won't be enough just to come and visit once or twice the Vukovar Memorial Center, it should be a commitment for everyone. A parent should guide his child and not be guided by the school. But I'm warning you of a dangerous fact, almost incredible, that's what my colleague was talking about, so it's our own fault that we have a situation in our schools four hours a year through history classes about the Homeland War. Four hours all year! So you remember what it was like in that old system? You had those, not that you only learned in history about the NOB, but you also had the Tito Revolution quizs and everything that wasn't there. Why don't we make a show about the Homeland War among the children and they'll get a holiday award, etc., at the level of the entire state to make it. Since primary school, those district schools, through all primary and secondary schools, may they participate in it. He'll have materials, he'll have something to learn from, it'll be a message to them. And the role of schools for truth about the Homeland War, but the role of the Ministry of Culture. Why aren't there any movies about the Homeland War? Why aren't funds to finance the production of such films being allocated? The role is public television, the show, why isn't there a series about the Homeland War? So we have many, many ways and many opportunities to fix this catastrophic, dangerous situation that our children do not learn the truth about the Homeland War. But this is a commendable initiative anyway, but let's just take the first step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23576	Thank you very much. And distinguished representative Josip Djakic answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I didn't think, but here's something else I have to say about this unfortunate register that's the subject of today's dispute and today's dissension. I am afraid, I say once again, really no matter how much protection this will be used and will be used against Croatian defenders, contrary to the interests of Croatian citizens as defenders. And trust me when in some future time we'll meet and talk maybe it'll be a reason not to be good anymore or not to be friends and comrades because of what happened to that register, some regret, some prison, some indictment, some inconvenience or someone who knows something else. I would also like to say that the commendable initiatives are through these 10 segments that you listed that you could get rid of and say that those 140 million kunas remain in your budget so that you could deploy them for all these needs. I'd say hello, and I'd say that's what I'm up for. After all, I said in one debate that these are the initiatives that we at HVIDRA have proposed and that I support them that they are commendable, but they must also have financial support, without financial indicators, there is no law to be implemented either.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23578	Thank you very much. I would then conclude today's debate on this agenda point. We will vote on it when conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23579	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. No. 208. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1)A proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is hereby adopted 2)All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the Proposer in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's to conclude? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 94 votes in favour and 24 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23580	And now we'd move on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Proposal for a Law on the right to access information, first reading, P.Z. No. 198 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on European Integration. You received reports from the board at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go, dr. Zoran Piculjan Deputy Minister of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the right to access information is the democratic value of a modern society, and in the Republic of Croatia it is also a constitutional category, constitutional law. And that is why the law, which has been in force since 2003, had to be updated in 2010. The main reasons for the change, i.e. the motion for a move towards a new law on the right to access information, are primarily constitutional and legal. To develop that constitutional norm constitutional law is not simple and it does so in substance, it tries to do so, and it seems to us that this proposal also does well. The other reasons for international legal nature are, in fact, more precisely, the coordination with the acquis of the EU and the implementation of the EU Parliament and Council Directive. The third type or group of reasons can be classified on an international level and is linked to the government's action plan for an open power partnership. What the Proposer also had in mind and what he was working on in the proposal for this law is also the development of European standards of access to information that has naturally been significantly increased in relation to the situation governed by the 2003 law, as well as the systematiced experience in implementation but not partly implemented by this 2003 law. In short, when we sum up the changes and say what important changes are, important improvements, important newspapers in this bill could be located again in several areas. First of all, a list of information that public authorities are obliged to publish and which citizens are practically entitled to know a significantly extended list. In fact, the bill is based on the proactive role of the public authority body, not on a pre-defined catalogue of information that these bodies are obliged to publish. About a little change but a completely different approach. What is also important and what is one of the foundations of this law is strengthened the role and function of an independent body that is in a certain way watchful over the quality of the implementation of this law. Thus, the body receives strong second-degree powers in resolving complaints concerning access to information, obtains a strong advisory authority, a authority which is rarely used by the second-degree body in the Republic of Croatia but which is important for education for public assistance in order to exercise its right. It receives a supervisory function or a strong supervisory function, receives certain inspection powers and also has its powers of power and its instrumentation related to the infringement sphere. This third group of issues which are being discussed by this law are the suspension of the right to access information listed and well-determined when it is possible to restrict the right to access is precisely defined and, of course, what seems to be equally important to the current solution, which is that any restriction can be done not by any type of regulation, not by a general act but only by law. 4. is related to compliance with the European Directive, the EU Parliament and Council Directive, and it is related to the introduction of the Institute of Re-use of Information by natural and legal persons for commercial or non-commercial purposes, in fact, of its own product, so-called the owner of the information comes out of his portfolio and has to be regulated in a way that can be reused. The 5th type and 5th part of the improvement is related to a better and more precise definition of the public authority since the strengthening of the consultation institutes with the interested public and a series of legal technical improvements which, of course, are not fully implemented in this text, which will, until the end, be held for public debate and debate on parliamentary committees until the second reading. What remains in the alternative solutions is the solution whether to identify itself as an independent body for the current solution of the Personal Data Protection Agency or the Commissioner for the Protection of Personal Data and the right to access information as one of the more modern in Europe-recognizable institutes and institutes by which the debate itself shows and somehow directs us to this guarantee both higher levels and expertise and independence. The second reading leaves the choice of an alternative but an alternative to the present and all discussions go in the direction of Commissioners and Commissioners who united both functions, which is some European trend and standard of both functions would have the same body and data protection and the right to access information. It is done and it is not irrelevant, a broad debate with the interested public has been held. The law is exposed to the public from all sides and it seems to us that this strong, strong interest has actually resulted in the opening of improvements to the institutes that have been regulated so far. Discussions with SIGMA have also been held with a specialised and professional international institution that has accepted and made its observations but has also adopted its recommendations and has adopted this Croatian solution and the law is in line with all our European obligations made or in cooperation with the EU Commission. What is most important, and this is that this bill and the applicant finds it truly stronger responsibility for the public authority to access information not to limit but rather to allow access to information to citizens. It is his greatest strength, and it seems to us that we are certain that this bill is an important shift in relation to the solution so far and that thanks to this Parliament's debate and the public debate so far, until the next reading, we will have an effective insurance mechanism and this right that citizens will have under the foundation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23582	Thank you very much to the Deputy Minister of Administration. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we'd move on to a club debate. The first is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the distinguished representative Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23583	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Piculjan has pointed out for a reason that it is not about one routine and irrelevant law, but that it is about a law that should change and the logic of the operation of the entire apparatus of public and state administration. What is the potential of this law will not be visible from the very text, but from the use of all the possibilities that this legal framework provides. To emphasize what the potentials of this law are, I would mention three things. The first concerns the very logic of legal thinking on the availability of information, the second is a review of the reasons and the historical development of such legislation, and the third is revenge concrete and solutions that exist. In terms of the law itself, it should be said that this law must strike the necessary balance between the principle of the protection of personal data of our privacy, on the other hand, the protection of public interest through the secrecy of the procedures of certain state bodies and institutions. But in that environment, there is a legal obligation and an opportunity to open public authority to citizens for its greater efficiency. This law is not simply giving subjective rights to citizens, even less it concerns only media or journalists who are seeking information. The main objective of this law is to impose an obligation on the authorities of the state or local self-government, all those who care about the public interest to do so openly. They must make their decisions available, they must explain the reasons why these decisions have been made. Registers should be made public, available to everyone. We need to take advantage of the opportunities that new media and communication provide. These are major challenges, and these are all measures that actually prevent what is called closing or bureaucratizing public authorities in our public. Secondly, it is unimaginable to achieve elementary standards of democracy if there is no availability of information. What is it for us to have an attitude if we can't back it up with those data, the fact that the bodies of the public authorities are in possession of it. So we can decide freely if we don't know what this is about. It's not just about expertise, it's about us having to know what they know and those who make important decisions. And this isn't about something that's just our job. If anywhere in one area of law today there's a huge expansion that's exactly this area. If you want to look at a map on the Internet, a map of the world on which the countries that have adopted such legislation are shown. Almost incredible, that map looked very bright for 50 years, today it's dark, and the dark-marked countries that have this legislation. In Europe and Asia, the only Belarus does not have such legislation, it does not have Gulf countries, some Arab countries, some African countries, but here this morning the Philippines adopted changes to the laws concerning the availability of information, the other day Brazil. It is therefore an unconstitutional process driven by international high standards, particularly expressed in the UN Convention on the Prevention of Corruption, in Europe and in some of the recommendations and directives of the European authorities. Let me do the other one, then. This legislation is not the result of just one specific moment or... As early as the 18th century, Sweden passed one such law, and at that moment in Sweden, Finland was also the one that later amended the legislation. And these countries have developed long-term practice and consider it one of their greatest comparative advantages in relation to other countries and other political and administrative systems. The main incentive, however, comes in 1966 by the adoption of the law on the availability of information, Freedom of information act in the United States. This law has triggered an entire avalanche of change, demand and raising standards of expectations on what is forbidden and inaccessible to citizens, and what is the obligation of public authorities to share with citizens and facilitate the availability and access of such information. This was a great incentive for media and journalists to completely change their way of reporting on political and other decisions because they had to be made available and to allow them to know more than it would be to listen to a debate, for example. But when I am, yes, and the law or at all this legislation has imposed one great obligation not to decide in a closed secret way but to make the accessibility of the debate better not only for the media but also for all those who do not interfere with the freedom of debate. However, the main incentive came not because of such good experience and good practice, it came about in 2000 by having one great... countries in those 10 years passed legislation slightly different than this is ours, simpler and more primitive, which did not trigger the entire avalanche of amendments to the regulations. This is primarily about European countries, the United Kingdom, the Scandinavian countries. Some will say but not Germany. Even in Germany, but not at federal level, but at country level. It was also an incentive to make a recommendation, an act Mr. Piculjan called on. It is the Puma Sigma institution that has brought its famous principles of good government, of which the openness of government has been a key point. The professionalism that we discussed here a lot, progress, openness, independence. These were all the conditions that Puma sigma keeps key. But the idea of an open authority has been particularly accepted and considered in the last two years because our government has also joined this open power partnership initiative, trying to equalise high-level standards of openness and availability of information for many countries. Of course, there are recommendations from the Council of Europe, including some conventions that, with a little bit of free interpretation, apply to this area. Let's say Article 10. The European Convention on Human Rights and which provides protection before courts. There is one more thing to say here when we talk about history, which is that in the case of Croatia, a major role in the creation of this Law has actually been played by civil society, association. Not because they had particularly significant professional help, they had contact and cooperation with external institutions and experts, but also because they could never be expected to put such a question on the agenda and such bodies as the Croatian Parliament. Because it always seems to whoever has power, and yet we do, it always seems to be a little obstructive law that only imposes difficulties and does not give the safety of the government. But I'm going to stop there with the historical period and the guidance of international experiences because the principle I want to make out of this is quite clear. An idea of the availability of information, an idea that is the main means of preventing and combating red tape and the closure of government. To make key decisions is a means to improve these decisions. Let me just mention in the second one some things that will have direct consideration and consequences for the legal solution offered here. Expansion of the catalogues of information, including minor changes in the definition of information, is a major improvement in this Act. Although this is about first reading and I hope the ministry will consider some of the initiatives that exist in the enlargement. I must add that it was one of the weak points of our practice so far. I will also commend the coalition government in 2003 when the law was first passed and later all changes were made because it was very difficult to overcome the resistances of that philosophy of the detention of the government. If you act in authority and no one can ask the facts you have or how you decide... provides certain security, apparent security because that authority is only closed but not responsible and not effective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is once again reflected in the text itself is the question of the choice of an institution that will take care of the implementation of this Law. I'll say, I'm the author, one of the co-authors of the first text of this Law in 2002, and there are two things that we weren't satisfied with because the government didn't adopt them then, and that was a question first of all a body that would take care of law enforcement. ... is a very popular person in our neighborhoods and in our thinking, about how we get ourselves out of trouble by retreating as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But trusting one such important thing as law enforcement is only in routine bodies that, for example, in the Public Administration Office or the Ministry of Administration is not a good solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just, of course, suggesting differently, the independent body has great advantages. At first, he prevailed in many countries that such powers were entrusted to either the parliamentary committee or one of such a mixed body composed of many, and more recently, more and more has been taken into account in transition countries that it was not so much a matter of discussion as the efficiency and insistence of law enforcement. That is why I will welcome this initiative to establish the Commissioner for Information. It's just practical and better. There are also votes against and it should be taken into account. Of course, he'll wonder if we need another body when we already have an existing body. But an existing solution in which care about such an important law that violates or alters the whole logic of the functioning of the system is not good to trust the other body with the same important task – the Personal Data Protection Agency. Commissioner, he should also worry about ensuring democratic participation in decision-making, and I also commend you for ensuring that this law is passed. But in all other issues, democratic participation means one very active proactive action, not a decision or judgment on a specific case. It is necessary and it is an important thing to implement and ensure the measures and programmes of education at three levels. I think, and don't take me for harm that we in principle know relatively little about this issue especially when new people come to appropriate or high places in public administration or political bodies, so we can't expect them to know all about it, but they need to be taught. And then there's the advantage and task of one of those bodies. However, the decision must be such as to guarantee the protection of the different rights contained in the balance. And protection of privacy and interest, the public has a right to know. But then there's the possibility of actually protecting at a higher level, at a higher level, even judicial protection. We have so far relied too much on judicial protection in the application of this law which has not proved particularly effective. Because as long as you get your right in court proceedings, it's in most cases quite in a political and real sense irrelevant thing. I'm going to have to finish very quickly, so I'm going to just mention the last question that's very important, and it's about a test of public interest, or what's called in English... the test. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We in this law have an indication of a possible recognition of such a principle, and that is the principle that in the event of doubt, public interest has an advantage. Important and commendable. I thank you for your patience, and I will beg that this matter be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23584	Next club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go. Excuse me. Excuse me, Your Honor, a replica of the esteemed representative, Davor Ivo Stier, has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23585	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's a very short professor you mentioned all the reasons why this law is very important for the development of actually democratic society from those even historical examples to our experiences in the Republic of Croatia. I'd just add one foreign policy dimension, strengthen this. That is one of the laws to be passed and within these 10 points listed by the Commission in the Monitoring Report of October 10th. You've mentioned so much that you're asking the government to consider some other solutions. We will again on the side of the Croatian Democratic Community club also warn of some points that require consideration and hope that... until the second reading, but I think we need to keep in mind and let's say from a tactical point of view that as soon as possible we fill all these points. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This will also strengthen our positions in the process of ratifying our accession contract in those Member States that have not yet done so. That's, of course, another aspect now, I'm not saying it's the main aspect. We must pass this law because it is important for the development of our democracy, but I think it is worth mentioning that foreign policy dimension of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23586	Thank you, too. And the answer to the line, the esteemed representative Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23587	Thank you, Mr. Stier. I fully accept your line. The release of this element did not occur because I did not take care of it but because of the time limit. Yes, it is very important that this law be passed as soon as possible. But also to respect, above all, the advice and criteria offered by the professional public in this sense because that will only satisfy our requirements in fulfilling the obligations we have accepted. The speed and respect of European standards is something I think is the main emphasis in this debate. In the debate, of course, I want to avoid the political tones that were so present earlier because this is about common interest and meeting such an important obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23588	Thank you very much. We can continue to discuss the club representations. It is now indeed the honorable representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23589	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me say that Croatian Labourers – The Work Party will support this proposal. It's said who has information is ruling the world. But also who's keeping information secret to the public is certainly easier to government and manipulate, but it does it in a non-democracy way and we've seen often examples that each such power ends badly. The law on the right to access information has actually increased one. This law is under increased public authority. What he said before, Professor. Cregar and what Mr. Stier was saying is an important speed, it is important to pass this law as soon as possible because it is in the interest of all of us and in the Parliament, especially the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This Law on the right to access information is, in fact, a fundamental law that allows for the supervision of public authorities, which is very important. And from who? From citizens, or from citizens, which is very important. The basic law is to curb corruption. I would even say that this is an anti-corruption law because when citizens control the government this way and that's why this is a good law like it was in 2003 as a good start to the law and I agree with Professor. With the cregar and all the changes that have arisen to this law and this law that is in force. But why does this law change? It is changed because it is inconsistencies with the Constitution because some constitutional rights are now denied by the current law. And that is why it is necessary to pass this law as soon as possible and if possible to fix it. Freedom of information and then the availability of information or the availability of information, which is particularly important to those who have public authorities, whether local, regional or national, is a fundamental human right, a fundamental civil law. In this proposal of the Law on the right to access information, I will speak with two aspects. The first is to restrict the right of access to official documents which must be clearly prescribed. The second Commissioner is, for the time being, an independent body which is, in this case, the Personal Data Protection Agency. The first aspect speaks of the classification of documents, in fact what should be prescribed by this law or by law governing the protection of personal data. We were just talking a little while ago about actually all day being talking about the register. This law has previously been discussed equally with colleagues regarding that law, in fact it concerns whether it will be made available to the public or not. What about those who don't want his personal data in that register? That is why I ask once again not to take the shortcut of the decision but to respect the arguments of both. So this law also concerns the list of defenders who are entering the area of protection of personal data, so that it doesn't end up being brought counter-constitutionally. In Article 1(4), point (b) is replaced by the following: It is said "The provisions of this law do not apply to information for which there is a obligation to keep secrets under the law governing the security intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia". A very important answer to the question is whether classified data and data marked by a certain degree of secrecy will go to a public interest test under an independent body? That's what professor is. Craig said it was his last third point. That's one of the most important questions. What is the public's interest, and when can certain information be denied to the public? Or we'll allow it if there's no classification if there's no way to question whether there's something secret or not then we'll let state bodies or local self-government bodies or powers in local self-government or red tape stamps with a sign secretly. And what documents? All those documents that could compromise or reveal what the public doesn't need to know, and it's not really a secret. The word is what I said this is also anti-corruption law. In addition, the institution may appeal and, in the Administrative Court, dispute the removal of secrecy from the document or further inaccessibility of the document to the public. And for that there are certain procedures prescribed in law here. Article 63, which I called an alternative article, says "The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data will carry out the tasks of an independent body until the appointment of the Commissioner for Information and Protection of Personal Data". The Croatian Labour Labour Party is pushing for the establishment of an institution of commissioners. We also talked about this on the Committee on Information, Information and Media, with colleagues from HDZ on board proposing that the commissioner be elected by the two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament. I am giving an examination of such a proposal, and we Croatian Labourists agree with this proposal to representatives from the Ministry who will hopefully respect the remarks of the most important and put them in the final draft of the law. So there's no concern that there's going to be a secret information that's not for everyone's ear and for everyone's eyes in the opinion of a powerful man or some of the institutions. In fact, the biggest problems remain with the right to information, the first lack of political will, we also saw it from the Agency's reports when, in the spring, we seem to have discussed it, the will of politicians and the will of red tape. And secondly, what is very important and most important is what the ministry and other bodies need to hear about, and should hear from those who work in public media, and this is the lack of information of citizens about what rights they have and what they can gain from their knowledge and what information can be used to make their daily life easier, better all that they can achieve with the help of information that is often denied from their ignorance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23590	Thank you, Your Honor. We have one reported replica. Dear Representative Joseph Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23591	Affirmative. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I'm glad we agree on most of the things you said. I think that this section on reasons for and restrictions on the right to the availability of information has been made in accordance with international documents and there will be no major repair. But what you might say even more precisely is the process of determining, in fact, the priority in the test of public interest. The priority in that test is always right to know what it's about, only if it's not applied, so it's called... Only if there is no greater damage to the team and here the formulation indicates it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And forgive me, the two-thirds majority seem to me to be a bit inappropriate for such elections, because we still live in the world and also in Parliament of party and other divisions, and most of the total number of MPs themselves is one important factor of pressure on coordination and compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23592	And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23593	Dear Mr. Kregar, you know that always the opposition struggles to be a two-thirds majority so that it can participate in decisions, and most of them struggle to make their own decisions, which is legitimate. I agree with you, it is a very important classification, but it must be known that information that is not for the ears and eyes of the public that can always be sought what is prescribed by this law, the opinions of the Office of the National Security Council in accordance with the law governing the confidentiality of data, so that institutions that are afraid to go to the public are protected by this law and these regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23594	Thank you, too. We're continuing to discuss clubs. Now it's HSU's turn, and respected representative Ljiljana Cvetovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23595	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has guaranteed access to information owned by public authorities. Therefore, respect for human rights, including the right to access information, is also a respect for the rule of law of each civilised state. The right to access information is a right regulated by both the Constitution and the law. The adoption of a new Law on the right to access information is made necessary in order to adapt today's times and newspapers introduced in this area by European legislation. The proposal for a new law certainly improves procedures relating to access to information in the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, care should be taken about the enforceability of the law and the clarity of provisions which do not leave the possibility of multiple interpretations. The draft law incorporated Directive 2003/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The European Parliament and the Council of 17 November 2003 on the reuse of public sector information, which is an important paper in relation to the applicable law. The 2010 Act amending and supplementing the Law on the right to access information requires that the supervision of the implementation of this law from 2 January 2011 be carried out by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as an independent body for the protection of the right to access to information, instead of until then by the competent Ministry of Administration. This proposal for a law as an independent body for the protection of the right to access information has been set up by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, with an alternative for the tasks of an independent body to be carried out by the Commissioner for Information and Protection of Personal Data. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data was established to monitor the processing of personal data by the Data Protection Act. The powers and responsibilities of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in the application of the Personal Data Protection Act shall be laid down in detail, which shall indicate the complexity of the matter and the importance given by the legislator in the area of the protection of personal data and privacy. The end of the powers and responsibilities of the Agency is certainly not capable of fulfilling the purpose and purpose for which the Law on the right to access information has been adopted. Although the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as a body designated by the applicable law for the performance of independent bodies’ activities has already gained some experience in this regard, it has become public-recognizable and has been trained to carry out these tasks, so it would, as soon as possible and at least, adapt to the needs of the new law, and the European trend has just been the unification of the protection of personal data and the right to access information to one body, we are more inclined to support the alternative proposal that the tasks of an independent body are carried out by the Commissioner for Information and Protection of Personal Data. We are aware that this represents additional costs for establishing the Commissioner's office, requires the time needed to establish, select and educate staff, but we believe that this would contribute to the quality of work. On the legal side, the question of legality, the regulation of new powers of the Agency established by the Data Protection Act, is it at all legal to prescribe powers by other law of the same rank, the Law on the right to access information? In any event, it is important to ensure the independence and impartiality of that body. The principle of the proposal for a law aimed at the insufficient possibility of achieving a new economic and financial value which could result in the availability of public information and, in particular, the reuse of public authorities' information. The new indicators of the European Commission make it clear that information is a value that lays the basis for the development of an innovation-based economy. The Club of Representatives of HSU will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23596	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is now up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23597	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of the debate, I would point out that the laws so far that we have had the right to access information were not so bad, but this law that is ahead of us follows the moment in which we live and the needs where some new systems on access to information should be upgraded according to our European obligations. The law that the Constitutional Court abolished was not in itself a bad law, but the law when voting in the Croatian Parliament did not need most votes, as it had passed, so it was abolished. What is ahead of us, the right to access information, freedom of information, i.e. the legal availability of information is one of the fundamental constitutional rights. The opinion of our club is that this is one of the laws where all the club representatives should actually agree where he is of paramount importance, above all for our citizens and for all those to whom this law should and to whom this law applies. The bodies of public authorities, their work, their activities, their actions, everything that concerns our citizens, should be available to our citizens at all times, so there should be as little information as possible that is secret and that our citizens should not know except the basics that really threaten national security and which are such a threat to the Republic of Croatia. We advocate that this catalogue of information proposed in this bill should be considered, and that some information and those which may not be put into place in this first reading of the law are not put and extended and that this catalogue of public information that public authorities should do in the law is allowed, therefore, by the hand of our citizens. It is good that, in this Law, there are clearer definitions that have not been defined so far by the proposals of the law and by the laws so far. It is good to define the concept of what it is to be a body of public authority and to extend the body of public authority. It is good to professionally define the concept of information, which it really is and what it does in its form as such. An independent body, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, is, for example, it would be good to have the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and Personal Data, and that this alternative to the appointment of the Commissioner for Information is really considered, and that these two bodies for the Protection of Personal Data that already have experience with personal data and in working with personal data should be associated with that Commissioner for Information, because we consider this to be the first solution in order for the Commissioner for Information and Data Protection to be in line with our European obligations and with EU directives, but one body that would already come up on the basis of the experiences of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, so that, with less efforts, the Commissioner for Information and this Commissioner would be the Commissioner, it would be as an alternative, as well as we would support it. If we already have an agency, the agency has experience, there are already people, what it is, perhaps, additionally needs to be done, is that they are further educated, informed those who are working in the current Agency, but we certainly think that would be one of the good alternatives to this solution. It shall also give powers to a second-degree independent body to act in accordance with the procedures for the protection of the right to information. It's also good, we think it should be supported. What needs to be assessed is this test of public interest, I said at first that this public interest should certainly be put into advantage because there is no point in the law itself if in some quantities we limit it, then we really limit our builders. So, if we are to assess the public interest test, we should certainly be ahead of some other interests unless it is really a matter of national security. We also see that throughout history and throughout the history of European countries, that the right to access information is one of the fundamental constitutional rights, and we are also at the threshold that this right is indeed constitutional law, and I have said that our legislation has already had good solutions, this is now just one of the solutions that is therefore in line with the European directives and the HDZ Club in this first reading of the law, and we believe that some other solutions that will come into the debate and these alternatives that we are offered, which we will discuss here in the Assembly and on committees of assistance that we have one good law on which all the clubs of MPs should agree that we really bring one fundamental, solid good law, and above all the law that will serve the interests of our citizens who have chosen us in this High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23598	Thank you, too. Next up is the HDZ Club and a respected representative of Suncana Glavak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23599	Thank you very much, Mr. President. President-in-Office of the Proposer, fellow Members and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on the right to access information will undoubtedly be agreed by us at the HDZ Club, without a doubt that public authorities would be open to the public in whose interest they ultimately need and act. However, the new concept of the law brings a lot of ambiguity, bureaucratic obstacles and new costs. So far, the law has defined the law enforcement body, the Personal Data Protection Agency, and it is indeed not well articulated which is the real reason for the proposal of the Commissioner for Information and by offering an alternative, the promoter is obviously not quite sure what he would actually change. As soon as the motioner said in the text that the implementation of this law does not require additional resources, however, most committees, i.e. during the debate on committees, were seen, which I think will be confirmed today, that new funding is actually needed because new education, spatial conditions, additional professional staff are required to introduce inspectors, informing citizens, and in any case this means new employment, ultimately new costs, and we could say not exactly rational use of budgetary resources. As for public authorities, or their obligations, it would be good for someone to explain the formulation in the article. 10 which says public authorities are obliged to publish on websites in an easily searchable way laws and so on. Indeed, we should determine what this easy search means, I don't think this formulation should remain in the law. In addition, unexplained non-official rules should also be published for the replacement of texts. So I ask who, for God's sake, publishes on the official pages of off-the-book texts, so I ask you to look at this article, and that's the article 10th, so I think it's against all the norms. Furthermore, the public authorities will establish their general acts a way of seeing the public in their work, which I find unnecessary red tape and production of new acts, but in some ways the law defines. The way of exercising access to information had opportunities to be perfected, completed, and this seems to me, in fact, to become complicated and unspeakable. So it is completely unclear, for example, how the official will determine the identity of the person who, by telephone, declares the request or if, as was the case with you, for example, Google 26 named as Ivica Ivić asks you, for example. how many representatives and representatives were present yesterday at 16:30 in the Croatian Parliament, and this is a perfectly legal way of expressing the questions and the public authority's body to this inquiry should answer him. If someone asks for copies, for example 120 pages of a document, the public authority has the right to receive compensation for actual material costs. This is also what we think should be done, not defined. We'll have a price list that will prescribe an independent body, so I guess it'll be some document on hundreds of pages, because it'll write if it's one page, if it's both pages, if it's in color, if it's cards. So we really need to define more clearly what that means. And besides, my question is how will the information provider issue an account? For example, in which way the Office of the Prime Minister will issue an account for some information required under the law, issued on 500 pages, copied both ways, whether or not, in color or not, so I ask the Proposer to continue to do so. The paper is also the right to reuse information in the article. 29 It states that it is necessary to determine whether the information has been used for commercial or non-commercial purposes. What is and by what criteria commercially and what is not? The full article is actually quite vaguely written, and in paragraph 2 for the purpose of re-use of information, the public authority will make its information available in electronic form whenever possible and appropriate. The public authority has no obligation to ensure the conversion of information from one form to another or to ensure that part of the information is used if it involves more effort than simple action. I'm asking you nicely, what kind of effort are we talking about? I didn't see anywhere that there was a graduation effort from the easiest effort to the hardest effort. Who will determine this effort, so please try without too much effort to take this article out or arrange it properly until another reading. Creativity comes in expression and in the control of law enforcement, there is also something new designed, for example, so that inspectors should act within an independent body if this independent body were to be a commissioner, then he would have his own inspection. I'm asking for the same explanation, that's how we understood it. For inspectors, if you want to be an inspector, you can compete with all colleges. However, if you want to be a commissioner, it does not say whether you have to have any professional training, whether you have to have a college, you don't have to have a college, you don't have a choice method, a mandate is said to be strengthened by legal powers. As far as the Commissioner for Information is concerned, there are actually no arguments why he would better enforce the law than the current Personal Data Protection Agency. The information officer, we've had so far, so the information officer will have a very wide circle of the public authority's body, so he'll have to have a qualified expert who'll have to assess the text of proportionality of public interest. It will also need to be able to assess whether they are national security or not. All this requires, of course, additional education, and without any intention of offending anyone, for example, one municipal enterprise or any body of public authority that has already been proposed by law, each such body will have to have a commissioner and it will indeed have to be trained to give or judge such information. The law on the right to access information is a tool that should make information available to everyone. However, regardless of its longevity, we can already say how long it has been on this democratic scene in Croatia since its first adoption, more than 50% of the citizens do not actually know that it exists. Especially don't citizens know that at those lower levels, so you'll see that when we have reports of access to information that actually in some cities or municipalities, I'm not talking, there's no one to ask at all. So we need to work on that, and that is why we will certainly need additional resources. This is what we consider to be feasible in the HDZ Club until the second reading, and we are aware of the fact that this law is one of the ten points that the European Commission has also warned and should be strengthened, and that is why I am making all these inconsistencies that we have seen until the next report, i.e. as regards the law on its second reading. Of course, a law like this is necessary in every orderly democratic system, and I don't think there's any struggle, but for now we're going to express our restraint as far as he's concerned. Someone has said that it is important to make lawmaking an important speed, but it is even more important to make the law enforceable, to improve it, to correct the shortcomings detected until the second reading, and to enable the public authorities to really be in the service of citizens, to compose in it everything that the NGOs have spoken or from all segments of the society of the objections that have come and therefore we ask that this be understood well-meaningly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23600	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Next is the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23601	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Minister. The HNS supports the adoption of this Act and, of course, it is quite clear that one of the ten points of blame or the perception of problems that might be encountered in monitoring, passing between the other and this law, and of course the time is a certain factor to be taken into account in the adoption of this law, but I would agree with my colleague that there should be no major problems until the second reading, in order for certain technical details to be taken into account. In fact, operational details regarding this law offices. However, I would prefer to say on behalf of the HNS Club on the importance of this law, and we are in a bit of a sad party. It has been so many years in which we have struggled to allow our citizens the right to access information in this way as we propose in this law. These are the standards, the highest standards of human rights, these are the standards of the most developed democratic countries, these are the standards of one community that we will enter 1.7 next year. The old saying "Information is power", already someone here in the debate said that, but what information is power. Information that is difficult to access, that information is power. The information that everyone knows of course is not usually so important that it could give power to someone, and this law is on the verge that this society is being democratisationd, on the basis of the fact that as much corruption as possible in our society. It is not long, unfortunately behind us a time when information from public institutions, from public administration bodies, self-government, from state authorities, that public information was almost inaccessible, or impossible, not only to our citizens means ordinary citizens, but even to the means of public information that are usually very successful in researching information that is inaccessible. And it's fortunate that if we didn't have this law, we had open media, an open public who, if anything else, managed to warn us about certain information that unfortunately happened and we witnessed it in this time, later turned out to be information that was extremely important, and that was brought to closed government sessions, the chieftains that we don't now list them here, because I think most of us know what we're talking about. In addition to what is important, in the control of key positions, or key institutions such as the Government, such as the Honorable House, the Honorable House, such as individual ministries, and some major self-government. They are simply important for citizens, for their daily lives, it is simply amazing how much time our citizens have to spend to get the most ordinary information, or the most practical information for their daily lives, starting with how some basic documents, personal documents start, and how to open an enterprise, have insight into the same place in the law that regulates it, but of course all regulations and any regulations that are or sublegal acts that regulate some procedure that should be available to citizens and not only available but should be updated. Because unfortunately, it is common that some of these data are available at this time, however, are not updated. What cannot be obtained in this way and so far our citizens have addressed the bodies of public administration, public institutions, but very often without success and the data that have shown some research back several years, and let's say last year, astoundingly the fact that, say 350 such requests, there was absolutely no answer, and it was quite practical and I would say so to the ordinary human needs and information for personal use, so that is absolutely unacceptable. By passing this law, we in HNS believe that, apart from opening up to the public in an important part and creating a transparent relationship between the public and the body of public institutions, we will still manage to involve our citizens and bring their bodies closer to them in one, I hope a more quality way, although it will take some time because we, by the basis of this law, will have very many opportunities for which we should, of course, create certain preconditions. We still don't have the preconditions in certain local self-governments in our country to do it effectively. What we want to point out, which is the advantage of this law, is actually one small public administration reform, perhaps large because some bodies that are going to be exposed to the public in this way and available in some way to our citizens at the same time will actually be the control mechanism of the effectiveness of the work of these bodies. This is something that HNS has been pushing backwards for 10, 15 years and we have repeatedly said that this two-way communication between citizens and public administration and its efficiency and availability is something that is a prerequisite for this country to move forward. And that is why we believe that this law will also have very, very significant economic effects, because you know that one of the biggest objections to our country, precisely in this monitoring, is that we are not creating a favourable investment environment, and part of that story about the investment environment is also available, the lack of information in some real time, or time in which some information can be used in this economic segment. So if we stick to these frameworks, if we stick to these deadlines that are set by law, if we fix some technical details within the law that I think is already and only the ministry has noticed them. I think that in the next period and application of this law we will make important, important steps to improve our image and those who are watching us outside, but also our citizens and the attitude of our citizens towards public administration and public authorities in Croatia. Here is why HNS will support this first reading, this law in the first reading, hoping that all that were here constructive proposals will be respected until the next reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23602	Thank you, too. So we've exhausted a list of clubs that have been reported for discussion on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for ten minutes. The first one is a respected representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23603	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that, of course, I will support this law in my first reading, and that is why, as both predecessors and predecessors have said, which, by this law, raises the democracy and the civil value of the society in which we live. And my view is that the problem with the right to access information and so far has not been a bad law that has still been valid, although there have been certain and there are certain irregularities in this law, but they can be called upon by someone who is rather malicious and manipulative in terms of not implementing this law but is a key problem with the right to access information precisely bad or even non-implementation of this law. I am afraid that this danger will not be avoided either with the adoption of this law and in the first place because the sanctions for those bodies of public authorities which are obliged to implement this law in my opinion, and they are embodied in financial penalties that go from one thousand to 100 thousand kuna, and because of this, I do not think it would be bad for leaders or bodies of public authorities who do not implement this law to try to sanction and perhaps with certain political sanctions, because, as it has been said several times during this debate, this law is really crucial in terms of fighting corruption, but also raising democracy and civil values in society. It is crucial for the implementation of this law in any case of political will and I am extremely glad to see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has a really political will to raise standards in terms of the exercise of the right to access information. However, the question arises whether the political will from the government of the Republic of Croatia will be transferred and translated to other public authorities and today also by companies that are bonds to provide information under this law. I'm so glad it's in the article. 5 More precisely, these bodies are listed by public authorities who are obliged to provide information than is currently the case. And since we have this importance of the law as one fundamental democratic right of every citizen I really ask you to consider whether or not it is possible to strengthen these sanctions against public authorities, I say that they go from one thousand to 100 thousand kuna, regardless of what perhaps 100 thousand kuna at this point seems a very large sum, given that this amount is being punished by the bodies of public authorities, that it will not be the money that people will give out of their own pocket. The question is how effective it's going to be. In my opinion, the law does not specify the difference between the owner of the information and the public authority which is required to provide some information. Although. The 20th century speaks of cases of business secret or professional secret, the law is not precise enough for other circumstances or so on. gray zones. In cases where business or professional secrets are involved, public authorities that have some information that is not theirs should inform the user of the right to information and then probably because it is understood that the body of the public authority that owns the information itself will decide whether to give or not to provide that information. That's what I'd say, for example. one case, e.g. a ministry in its daily work comes into possession and has information which, for example, is available in inspection control, in possession of information owned by a county or a court of law. And now, in his address to the Ministry, the user of the right to information requires that information from the ministry. Such information shall not necessarily be considered a business or professional secret. In most cases, this is probably not the case, the law in this case does not define whether the public authority is obliged to give that information to the user of the right to information, or, in that case, will direct it to the institution that owns the information. It is positive that the law sets out in fact which all documents or information or information by the public authorities should be published on the websites. I think that this will greatly reduce the number of requests that citizens make to public authorities and it is good that every body of public authorities knows exactly what its obligation is to place on its websites in this regard. Article 18 refers to the submission of a request but does not define whether the beneficiary of the right to apply for the right to access information or whether any request will be considered as a request for information for access to information, as the case may be, so it might not be bad to define it in the law. In practice, at least this is my experience from the ministry being entered as requests only those which call for the law on access to information, especially if they are submitted by phone, and what is apparent from this law is that an official note should be made about it and, of course, in reports from the public authorities in that case, the number of requests for access to information would increase to a large extent rather than that. For example, while I was the Minister of Environmental Protection, citizens wrote a lot to me on e-mail, and in any case when I answered and provided information that was related to the work of the ministry, I also forwarded it to the information officers, i.e. the Commissioners for Information that she also enlisted, and I asked other employees in the ministry, but I am not sure that it is done in all public authorities in this way. My objection to the law is in this introductory section where you say there will be no need for additional funding in the Republic of Croatia's budget because I believe that the implementation of this law will still cost something, given that, at least I am thus experiencing it, the law also mentions a certain inspection from that independent body. As far as I know, that inspection doesn't exist right now. The number of employees in this Agency is relatively small, as in the second-degree body, so I suppose there will still be a need to provide for certain appropriations in the budget for that purpose. When we talk about the options of the Agency or the variants of Commissioners, I am much more prone to the variants of Commissioners, and here I would remind that the SDP's Club of Representatives and Representatives in the past term, even in the procedure, I think it is a good thing that this extremely important, important factor in the democracy of society, civil values, the fight against corruption is strengthened with a special body of Commissioners, so here it is, in any case, I hope you will until the second reading resolve these doubts about it and my wish is, and my hope is that it is still going towards Commissioners for the right to access information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23604	Thank you, too. We have a report of a replica. Honorable representative Anna Lovrin and her replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23605	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Holly, you have rightly troubled something, that problem I see, and that's the difference between having information and having the right to have that information. So you rightly asked the question what if one public authority has information that is actually the authority of another public authority. I have also warned the Committee of this stimulation of Article 1 which states that this law regulates the right to access information and reuses it has, which it has or which are supervised by public authorities, so in this article. That should be precise. I remember there was a case at the Justice Department that came to the Administrative Court because we were asked for data from the database that we physically owned, so we had servers in the Ministry, but it was a court register. A copy of the court register is authorised under the law to grant only a court. Of course, but the user or citizen kept asking us this information, and I thought at the time that we shouldn't give it, because the fact that we physically own it on the server doesn't empower us to have it and to have it and so I think we should specify that ownership and the right to have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23606	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate with the MPs. Now it's time for the esteemed representative, Zlatko Komadinina, to be gone in the hall, to lose the right to debate on this subject. Then he's a respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23607	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy. For centuries, each government has acted on the principle that open power is not at all power. The rule was that the government was working behind closed doors, on some secret meetings without any possibility of the public knowing at all, let alone affect what was happening, what was done, and what decisions were made. If, for example, discussions on new laws or new taxes were held, they would be held behind the scenes and, according to the public, it would be as if nothing were going on. Moreover, any public debate on the work and actions of the authorities was seen almost as high treason because it was inconceivable that the government was generally embodied in some large authoritarian and untouchable leader to analyse, question or criticise. Fortunately, such times have been betrayed. This constitutional solution is fully in line with the position in which a society in order to truly call it free and democratic, must be fully open to the public. Everyone, but just about all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know what they are doing and how they are doing the power they have chosen. In order for such a thesis not to remain a dead letter on paper, which has been too often the case before us today, there is a proposal for a Law on the right to access information that is systemically, modern, I would dare say in some parts and radical ways, governing what public information is, in which way they can be accessed, or under what condition and when accessing or disabling access to certain information can be made. In short lines, this law, and so often the problem has been defined by certain concepts, such as public authorities or information. So far, practice has shown that those who are indeed public authorities spend more time in doing so by trying to fight to remove from themselves the obligation to apply such a law than to give citizens the information they should give citizens. Now we've been given the opportunity to hear that someone thinks that if there's any information in his possession, that information should not be given to the citizens. I believe that, if it is public information, if it is publicly available information. It doesn't matter where it came from, whether it was delivered by another body, another ministry, local self-government or so on. If any information is legally held by a particular public authority, if that information is not limited, then the public authority is obliged to allow the citizen to receive such information on request. Furthermore, what I am particularly pleased with, and particularly important, this law sets out in detail what information public authorities are obliged to publish on their websites. Until now, it has been avoided, published on websites, either minimal information or what has been published virtually seems to be inaccessible. There was no search option, and people had to spend hours and hours before they could find the information they needed. Furthermore, a clear legal obligation of the public authority to draw up drafts and laws of sublegislative acts is introduced, to publish the draft rules on the websites for public consultation with the public concerned, to inform the public about the consultation and the results of the consultation, and in particular to publish a plan for such consultations in advance. The public must not only know what the government is doing, but must be aware of such work in time to be familiar and willing to intervene if it considers something inappropriate. Furthermore, this was particularly important, said colleague Holly, there is a question of an independent body. This law, whether we stay with the Agency or join the creation of a new body in the form of Commissioners, strengthens that body’s authority, especially when it decides as a secondary body to resolve complaints in the exercise of the right to information. However, I believe that, certainly, the issue of access to information or an independent body that will worry about the fact that this information is indeed being delivered, that it is to be handled properly, should be regulated through an independent commissioner as a kind of counsel for access to information. I will remind you, a few years ago, the SDP's Club of Representatives sent this House a bill on the Commissioner for Information where he prepared and developed a way for the Commissioner to function. Since the alternative is proposed by this law, precisely on the trail of the 2010 SDP Representatives Club's proposal, I believe that this law should also choose this very alternative. The Commissioner for Access to Information as a personalised service, as a service that has access to the media, access to the public far greater than anyone, let's call it such a faceless agency, has a much greater opportunity for both public work, not only as public authorities bodies, but as one model to warn of everything our citizens can know, of all the information our citizens can get. On paper already and now, as my colleague Holly pointed out, our system is good, but unfortunately when it needs to be implemented in practice, it does not work like that, and that is why I believe that forming a body as the Commissioner has contributed to the possibility that it exists would be even closer to the citizens. Because it is not the purpose of us to pass a law like this that tomorrow we boast in front of the EU that we have done something, that we are modern, that we are advanced. The point of this law is to really enable citizens to get information about what the government is doing, to enable citizens to get the information they need in a brief and quick manner. That is why I support this law in that form which provides for the introduction of the Commissioner for Access to Information, but I believe that just passing this law will not be enough, because if we pass the law and don't implement it and leave it as a dead letter on paper, then we haven't done anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23608	Thank you, too. Your Honor, we have a single replica signed up for your presentation, honorary representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23609	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Grbin, I would not quite agree in your broad approach, and I see that the representatives of the ministry were nodding their heads, which means that their urgency is that the obligation to provide information has every body which, in any case, is in a position to possess some information. Why is it so, since one particular seriousness should be maintained mainly in the case of a test of public interest when there will be obstacles in accordance with Article 15 on the provision of information, and when that body of public authorities will have to assess the public interest, that is, the reasons for denying the provision of information, of course according to this law will prevail public interest if it is not, it is not difficult to take this difficult reason on the side of data protection. Of course, it will certainly be much better to measure and assess the body whose original information is and I see no reason why it would not be referred to that body whose information it is, because otherwise this body of public authorities who may have a lot of such information and not be able to make a quality commitment to that assessment will actually be, in fact, burdened.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23610	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23611	So if you were watching a famous cartoon or comic book of Atherix's 12 assignments, then you must have noticed that the most difficult task that Asterix and Obelix faced was to extract form 15 A. They were supposed to come into one administrative body and draw a pattern out of it, and what was going on? On every counter, they were sent to another, because they called in that they weren't in charge, whether they had a pattern or it didn't matter, but it was a pain in the ass, move on to another. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provides for restrictions on the right to access information must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case and necessary in a free and democratic society and prescribed by law. It is this constitutional provision that obliges everyone, anyone who has specific information that is publicly, publicly available and is not secretive to give it to an interested, or to any citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23612	Thank you, Your Honor. Next up for debate is the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23613	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems to me today that the debate on this law is actually a debate on form and content. From the inspired discussions of some colleagues, I got the impression that we do not have the right to access information, so that for the first time we are regulating this area to general satisfaction, especially to the satisfaction of the European Commission and all that we need and in this approach, the end of accession negotiations and commitments in the last ten points set before the Croatian Government. Of course that's not true, then some other colleagues who spoke correctly talked about the 2003 law and again in 2010 and we're talking about a single space or activity that's quite well regulated so far by our regulations. Why do I say that the discussion is about form and content? Because even now we prescribe a form to satisfy some of the conditions that are being set before us, but the question is whether we will achieve those goals that this law should achieve and whether it is content enough to ensure that the rights that are being apostrophe in some way are being apostropheeded here. When we talk about the discussion of form or content, I will say that this law has also been consulted with the interested public. This is what we often declare as something necessary for the adoption of this law and we know that a round table was held and a few discussions about this law, but it is interesting that it was set up on the Internet consultation of the Ministry of Administration during the period from 19 July to 20 August 2012, just at a time when everyone interested in sitting with their computers and on the Internet is searching for any news and access to information that is available to them during this period of summer droughts to get better acquainted with the texts of the laws given by individual ministries. I suggest that if we hurry up with another reading to definitely be on the Internet about Christmas because then most people will look at their computers again texting about the second reading of this law. I would say that this law, the need to pass this law and, in fact, that idea that existed before in the adoption of the law in 2010, which is a fundamental challenge whether it is an independent body that will deal with the law and the protection of the right to access the information of the agencies that have been formed and which now performs that function, or whether it is the Commissioner for Information as proposed and now in the alternative to this law. Because we're probably not the safest thing to do. So I'll, I'll ask us all a question. The Agency shall carry out this work in 2010. The arguments are quite inconclusive. The Commissioner for Access to Information would better respond to the needs of this job, but no one told me why it would be better. Secondly, in a financial situation where our country is thinking about forming new bodies of public authorities, doing new services, and even those that are breaking some other laws, and I'm going to say something, I think that ha is not a very well thought-out solution. But if so, if we're all convinced that the Commissioner for Information is a body that better secures access to information, then I ask what's wrong with the agency that's been doing these jobs so far. This agency also deals with the protection of personal data. And if she's not an independent body, then the question is how she can do personal data protection, and she can't do jobs to protect the right to access information. If we've decided on a Commissioner for Access to Information, then perhaps we need a Commissioner for Personal Data Protection. But then you should see what that agency hasn't done so far that part of her business is now being transferred to someone else. In any case, neither the Agency nor the Commissioner, given the system of state administration, are bodies that can at all have their own inspections, and you have prescribed special inspection supervision and the daiquiris service that will in itself, that commissioner in his office will have inspectors who will be independent in his work, etc. etc. I think that provision is contrary to the State Administration System Act. I also think that given the General Administrative Procedure Act in this law, there is no particular need to prescribe the procedure for how these bodies will act, because it is sufficient to refer then to the law which determines their activities. What I think is also already said in earlier appearances, said colleague Glavak in front of the HDZ Club, the obligation for state bodies, state administration bodies to publish draft laws as well. So, and other regulations. Therefore, what is not even the official text of the individual body can cause much more problems than it will cause or lead to what is important, and that is that all information concerning the activities of the public authority is available to citizens. And one thing that seems to me to me is that this law is a visible alignment with EU directives is not a mere copying of those directives, but what is written in the directives should be specified in our legislation. The European Commission has never resented that. In fact, that's what she's been telling us. If you read certain provisions in this law such as Article 10, for example, that public authorities are obliged to publish on websites in an easily searchable manner. I think this law should have prescribed which is an easily searched way, i.e. how easily web sites are searched. So also the obligation to ensure the conversion of information from one form to another should be prescribed what it means. This seems to me like some recycled information, but I'm not even sure how those bodies will understand the obligations imposed by this law. And final. What was usually a motive for the European Commission to object to this law is the fact that its obligation to access information was most frequently violated by local self-government bodies. That was the problem of why this law had to be completed. However, if the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act impose every municipal enterprise on a local unit, if they have to educate people to apply that law, then the key question is whether this mechanism for implementing this law is how feasible it is, and in particular, the question of how much such a mechanism will cost. You can imagine in our units of local self-government and regional administration over 500 of them when each and every municipal enterprise and every institution must educate an officer who must know the General Administrative Procedure Act in order to comply with the very complicated provisions of this law, so that this body can at all meet the purpose of providing information. Because otherwise it will be subject to here's colleague has asked for stronger sanctions, will be subject to the sanctions prescribed for violations of this law. And finally, we are talking about reducing and the efficiency of the state administration, including public administration. This law goes the other way. It will complicate the process, it will require an additional number of people because it will always turn out that they have the right number of people and for these jobs they will have to hire new ones, and only in Article 56 will you read reports that bodies will have to deliver to this independent one body no matter what it is called. So when you see that it's 23 different data about all the possible demands they've received, the conclusion is that this law will never come to life in its fullness, in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23614	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got one replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23615	Dear colleague Mlakar, I am so sorry that you made some remarks here, given the fact that you were the Minister of Administration and as such responsible for the implementation of this law, which is why I say I am sorry. I'm sorry that you've made some remarks here, given the fact that you've been Minister of Administration and as such responsible for the implementation of this law. What do I say I'm sorry? Because it seems to me that in some ways you do not understand what is the fundamental value of the right to access information, and here you would like to look specifically at some of your remarks that you have made. It clearly states in the law that not some new institution of the Commissioner would be established, but that the Commissioner for Information would take over the agency's affairs and employees who would then strengthen even with some additional likely people who would be needed to implement this law. What's the commissioner for, not the agency? The agency and agency employees are selected by the basis of a public tender, while the Commissioner, at least I think it was the intended choice by the Assembly and by the supranational majority, and I think that such an institution would then have a significantly greater legitimacy than when it was chosen through a public competition, and we know in which way it is unfortunately known to breed in some bad directions. It is also clear in the law that it is necessary to publish drafts of the law because it is a public debate obligation, so of course that people will at all discuss something if they cannot look for this document, see it, and not only publish finished documents, so it is fundamentally something that citizens must have information about in order to even engage in the process of adopting certain laws and to make observations. So we can do that if some document isn't posted at all on websites. And as for utility companies, I think they have to, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23616	Bring in the end, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23617	Because they use public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23618	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23619	Well, dear colleague Holly, I'm very sorry that you're sorry, too, but since it's still my profession, I think I understand very well what the law says. And not to rephrase everything you've said, my presentation was about the provisions that say that public authorities have to publish drafts of laws and other regulations, regulations are something much wider than the laws themselves, and when you ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection to publish a regulation on internal order, a rule on the preservation of an archival structure, which is in the draft, which may look quite different as a final regulation, then you'll have to daily answer 700 questions to the public concerned on the basis of a draft which is not the final formal text of each individual body of the state administration. I'm sorry if you didn't make that clear to yourself because you were a minister for a while, it would be good if you'd thought about it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23620	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. Now it's an honorary representative, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23621	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. So I might continue to this reply to the replica, not only will all these acts have to be published by the public authorities on their websites, let's do that, but those documents will have to be submitted to the central catalogue of official documents of the Republic of Croatia for their permanent availability and re-use of information, and that, and general acts affecting the interests of the users which are fine, but also drafts of all laws and other regulations and acts, and annual plans of the programmes the opinion of the report on the work, will all now, when you imagine, and the public authorities are the authorities of the local government, units of local self-government, all companies owned by the state of the unit of the local self-government, utility, etc., all of their instructions reports, etc. they will have to deliver to the central catalogue of official documents of the Republic of Croatia which is defined here in the terms that it is a publicly available tool that users through full text and/or organized set... Whatever that means, this will probably explain to us, allowing us to access the documents stored in the electronic database permanently. [[You don't understand.]] Here's just one detail. But then after that, it says that the implementation of this law in an explanation will not require any kuna and lip to be implemented. If that's what it says in the explanation, then I claim that this law and when it's passed will not be implemented, because it's simply impossible without further costs. But we return to that, to this law, therefore, in general this is certainly one of the main anti-corruption laws and the main anti-corruption tools, its adoption and repairs were ultimately the subject of all anti-corruption strategies and its changes after 2003 went in this direction, and its latest changes of course brought a series of improvements as well as the appointment of an independent body where, for the first time, the body outside the public authority, which was obliged to give information, was decided for the first time. What happened in the meantime? In the meantime, amendments to the Constitution have been passed, the right to information has been raised to the level of constitutional law, but what is important is therefore not only that, but the Constitution has established a restriction, restrictions on the right to access information, so that is, I would say the main amendment to this law that is expressed through a test of public interest. So the public authority can no longer say only that information is protected and we will not give it, either as a classified data, whether as a business or professional secret, whether as a tax secret, a secret protected, data protected by the Personal Data Protection Act, etc., but in any case it will be subject to a test of public interest before deciding on its giving or not to give. It's not like I'd say in our legal system a big newspaper. I don't know if anyone has thought of it and if anyone has read that we now have for classified data in the Data Securitisation Act the provision of Article 16 which states about classified data when there is an interest of the public data owner is obliged to assess the proportionality between the right to access information and the protection of values prescribed by some members of this law, and to decide on retaining the degree of secrecy, change in degrees, declassification or release from the confidentiality of data. So that's already known in our legal system, here's now this law on the right to access information has built it into its provisions. Therefore, whenever a body receives a request for information that would be protected, that is to say, whose right to access is prescribed in Article 15, the owner of the information or body of the public authority will question as much as possible whether public interest or data protection is in question. What is not quite clear from the text of this law in Article 16 and that is, when it comes to classified data, means the data referred to in Article 15(2) of point 1 where the public authority should request the opinion of the National Security Council Office, that I read somewhere in the explanation that this opinion of the Office will actually be, but it does not appear in the law, in fact to be an opinion on how much damage it would do to national security or any good that is protected from data protection, the text of this law does not show whether, whether it is the opinion of the Council is binding or the Council will say something about what it is thinking, and then the public authorities will decide on what is stronger, whether public interest or data protection. And in paragraph 2, I would suggest some other term instead of a term may, because the purpose of this law is to prescribe that it always has the advantage of having the greatest public interest, so to obtain information, however the text here says that the public authority is obliged to determine whether access to information can be limited, so it seems that it will first watch whether it can limit it, I would say whether it is necessary to limit it or whether it is allowed to limit it in accordance with the provisions of this law, so to see that the intensity is, if it is not necessary to limit it then. I told the denominator something, about this amount of data that's going to collapse and that's going to be delivered to that central catalogue of official data. And one more thing, he says here for their permanent availability and re-use of information. So reading this law to me is not clear then who will provide this information, whether the public authority that has the information or this central catalogue, and why to submit to the public authority the whole procedure for obtaining information and for its re-use, when they are in the central catalogue for re-use, it remains so rather unclear to me, as well as to make it unclear to me that they will indicate to the person who is requesting the information for re-use, that they will have to state whether it is for commercial and non-commercial purposes, who, as well as by what criteria they will assess or by what criteria they will say I need for non-commercial purposes, so it will be given to him as such, it is also not clear from this law. The issue of these inspection services and competencies should also be considered, and there should also be no conditions prescribed for the information officer, nor for the Commissioner, they should also be obliged to be persons who have passed the verification, since they will be made available secrets, or protected information, therefore they should be qualified for access to such information. Certainly in this article 10, where it is said that public authorities are obliged to publish on their websites, except for this easily searched, it is, it is already commented, but no matter what unofficially purified texts of the rules that have been made, so you know that the consolidated text that works in the Assembly is, therefore, the only official consolidated text, let's not confuse those who have to apply the law that each ministry or any body of public authority is doing its unofficially purified texts that must be officially published, so I don't think that there is absolutely no place to be. And the question of the draft. Another article reads that the draft law must be published on the web site at least 30 days before, it is okay that 30 days of this public debate takes place, but the question is who will check it out and how if you open up the public authorities' pages now, they are unscheduled, the Minister Linic attacked me the other day when I said he was talking about something that had not yet passed into any legal text, sent me to his ministry page, but there was something on the ministry's page.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23622	Bring an end to respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23623	Let me finish. What was called the presentation of the bill, first of all, public authorities have to learn what the draft law is, what the bill is, so these were the icons and the tables of something that couldn't have been a bill, because the bill becomes when it goes through the Croatian government, and that's why we've had a good idea of all this, but who's going to make them control, and especially without a June in the budget of the implementation of this law, I don't know, and I'd be pleased if it was fully implemented and if the citizens really had the right to access the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23624	You've exceeded 56 seconds. We have reported a single replica of your exposure, it's a respected representative of Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23625	Dear colleagues, Lovrin, therefore the proposal of this law raises the criteria for publication, but also for the availability of information. On several occasions, you referred to the citizens. I'm asking the question why don't you publish the information, and why should the citizens, say, at half a night or any day, get that information? On the other hand, I'll remind you of the GONG project, so-called The Lotus project, which was carried out on two occasions in 2008 and 2011, where it is, for example, from the perspective of my city in which I live, the city of Vinkovci has been rated as one of the most innovative cities in the Republic of Croatia. In 2008, therefore, the citizen could not obtain information about the official information that the city council, or representative body, brings because neither the information published in the printed edition of the official messenger was published. So please do not neglect the information, do not neglect the citizens' interest to get information at any time of the day and to have that information available. On the other hand, you have twice that the city of Rijeka has been assessed and rated by the NGO and independent research as one of the most transparent cities in the Republic of Croatia. So the goal is to make the information absolutely available to everyone, that each of us will use that information at what time of day and night to let the citizens decide for themselves when it is their best time to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23626	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the debate. Honorable representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23627	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Freedom of information, and thus the right to the availability of information available by the bodies of the public authorities, is one of the fundamental human rights, and everyone here knows that we have heard about it many times today. But the right to freedom of information, but also to other freedoms, is a right that does not in itself, but requires certain social processes in order to achieve it. That's what the esteemed Mr. Craiger was talking about at the beginning of this presentation. The law on the right to access information has unfortunately been born in Croatia for quite a long time, Croatia is the last of the transition countries to pass such a law only in 2003. So it's been almost 10 years since this law has been in force, but according to a 2011 GONG survey, our citizens are still not familiar with the advantages that the law provides, and even worse yet, those who need to provide or give information do not do so do not. The aim of the GONG survey was to verify the extent to which the level of quality was implemented by the Law on the right to access information. A sample of 63 public administration bodies has been made, mainly local self-government units and the results have shown that within 15 days, 49% of the applications submitted have been answered. A similar survey was carried out this year, and this research shows a certain improvement because it is responsible for 63% of the applications submitted, but it is still of course a catastrophic fact, and in order to check the level of openness of the public authority by consulting and cooperating with the interested public, GONG has followed the publication of draft laws on the websites of the authorities, particularly ministries. The results showed that the ministries rarely published draft laws that were in the adoption process, only 18% of all drafts of the law were published on the ministry's website, although a shift in the best compared to previous years was observed. Even the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the right to access information, the one from 2010 did not pass the procedure laid down in that same law, i.e. no defined procedure has been followed to allow citizens to be informed within the appropriate time limit of the proposal, i.e. the draft laws. In short, the results of GONG point to a frequent violation of the Law on the right to access information, suggest that the non-disclosure of information, in particular the statutes and budgets of municipalities and cities, the denial of information, and the collection of information through fees, and all agree that the best remedy for corruption is transparency, transparency and the public of work, and the availability of relevant data so that everyone can assess whether someone or something affects the functioning of an organisation, or any body that should be of general good. In the 21st century, the official website should be inevitable and even the primary communication channel of the public authority's body, so it is therefore incredible and inadmissible that in Croatia some municipalities have not yet made their website, their official website, and there is no democracy without insight into the work of the public authority without their transparency. And the quality of the Law on the right to access information is crucial to any country that would want to be considered democratic. This bill sets out a clearer procedure under which every citizen of this country can request information from the public authority and give it greater opportunities, actually greater tools, because the old law is still in force, for example. Article 12 provides that, on the basis of a request, it is mandatory for the public authority to allow the applicant to access the information no later than 15 days from the date of submission of the request and, in the event of an incomplete or incomprehensible request, the public authority will invite the applicant to correct it within 3 days and, if the applicant does not correct the request within that time limit, it will be rejected. In a new proposal for this law, right here in front of us, that deadline extends to 5 days from the day of the receipt of the call for correction, which still gives interested people more time, i.e. the chances of correcting the request and thus clearly obtaining the requested information. This is not crucial, of course, but it shows the spirit and intention of the law to go hand in hand to the citizens, but what is most needed after the adoption of this law, and some colleagues before me have already mentioned this, is the systematic education of the public authorities regarding their obligations to provide information to citizens, but also greater civic engagement, because democracy without informed and strengthened citizens remains only an illusion. The proposed law goes towards greater openness and public work of the public authority, and thus to a better, more accessible information for citizens and therefore I join those who are here to support this proposal of the Law on the right to access information.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23628	Thank you very much. The replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23629	Thank you very much. So that colleagues absolutely agree that official websites are the basic ones where the data should be published. That's why I spoke when I said it was a matter of monitoring the implementation of this law. This law has obliged public authorities to have on their websites, it has also prescribed sanctions which are good, but I argue that without swearing in the budget they will not be able to carry out that supervision. Why am I saying that? Disinformation or misinformation is worse than no information, so it's no better than bad. Pages from the public authorities' experience so far, not some local self-government or utility, but the ministries are unscheduled, and I didn't say that people can't get information and that they can't come to that information in half the night or whenever they want to, however, I just said that from this Article 10 paragraph 1 I should throw out the unofficial consolidated texts of the law because it will lead citizens astray, they'll use them, they'll call for false information, and I can suffer the damage from that, and I'm pushing for those websites, that every ministry, for example, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, or as it's called until a month ago, I don't know if it has its own website, so I'm warning about the control of what's prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23630	Finally on behalf of the Proposer, Deputy Minister Zoran Piculjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23631	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. To all MPs and MPs I thank for the fruitful and good debate, this alone, I think the whole debate actually shows two things, which is that this proposal submitted by the Proposer does not really represent any discount in the legal regulation of this matter, but rather the continuity of good and the upgrade of good that existed to this legal system. What has proved to be a danger, which is a question of the awesomeness of this law, will be taken into account by the Proposer when harmonising and introducing all these remarks and reacting to all these remarks that were made in the first reading. What is evident is that, and what we do not consider a weakness, this is what I said at the beginning of this proposal is that the alternative solution of the agency or the commissioner is not in fact a show of weakness but a demonstration of one, a demonstration of will and that of this House as well as the whole of the public and that all of those discussions that were given during the very fruitful, I repeat again, regardless of the awkward time that has been carried out by some MPs very broad, very wide and very effective public debates related to the proposal of this law. So in the next reading we have, there will be no alternatives, a provision that, if a provision is adopted on the Commissioner, where it will be brought together, the merger of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and as the Office of Commissioners and Commissioners, of course it will be necessary to add a new and a whole chapter on the Commissioner, because additional provisions defining both the way in which the choice and the powers and the preparation that the Commissioner is to have and all that needs to be done in such a way that the law in that part is to be implemented. Of course this dilemma of constitutional law from one real but also constitutional view whether to choose it two-thirds or to choose it in most ways is what, should be seen from the constitutional view but also from... The conductability of this institute is also new, the Commissioner's Institute. [[You don't understand.]] About the funds, the means to implement this law, the promoter finds an internal redistribution between, in public administration bodies, where the Commissioner's office will then be formed, or to strengthen the AZOP, education, funds that are very important and that are all mentioned, these are the means of education, will also be realised through one project that we are offering, and which we think we will implement through one European project. Whether or not additional funds will be required will, of course, be indicated and secured in order for this law to be implemented. Whether there are inaccuracies and inaccuracies in the law, there are certain things that can be defined more precisely, MPs have presented a number of terms that can be better defined, a series of institutes that can be completed, it is waiting between the two readings, whether it should be written that something can be found in an easily searchable way, that can be, that is, a technical term that can be thrown out of the law, and the law will neither win nor lose, but there seems to be no ambiguity in that term. Whether unofficial texts should be thrown out, it's current practice, whether it's good, probably not, we'll review but it helps the bodies, but it can help the citizens, we'll think about the solution to find a better solution here too. There seems to me that around the fee, there are a whole series of institutes that you mentioned here, which should be done, we think it is especially worth pointing out what is said and what affects other laws, this law in, the final proposal of this law will also be related to interventions in the State Administration System Act which will probably and slightly differently be called, which will modernise the Institute of Control, the inspection and administrative supervision appropriate to this time. It will intervene and will likely have to intervene in the Data Protection Act and the Data Protection Act so that this package of laws in its implementation would then be, in order for this law to be implemented, it will have to intervene in this whole series not excessively but intervene in those laws. In this way it seems to me that we could get one implementation, it seems to us, and I think that's how the whole system is set up that we're going to get one implementing instrument for insurance, ensuring the right to access information that it's not just a constitutional right and an empty letter on paper. I thank you all once again for your contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23632	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23633	Proposal for a Law on the right to access information, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 198. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1)A proposal for a Law on the right to access information 2) All objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 94 votes in favour and 24 votes are abstentions of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23634	We move to - - Final proposal of the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 201 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance, State Budget and Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Introductory on behalf of Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23635	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you a proposal for a Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions. Part of public institutions established by the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other founders, and particularly public institutions in health care, have, over the past few years, continued to operate with major deficits or are unable to meet monetary obligations in the legally established deadlines. The accumulation of public institutions’ deficits and the non-compliance of obligations within the legal deadlines set creates negative consequences for the functioning of the entire economy, while such financial unstable public institutions are also the brakes for the implementation of the necessary structural reforms. The adoption of this law will allow the resolution of public institutions which are non-profit organisations or budgetary users and whose founder is unable to cover the resulting deficits or fulfil the monetary obligations in the legally established deadlines. The procedure for the rehabilitation of a public institution will cover the founder, unit of local and regional (regional) self-government or other founder who calls on the government to implement the resolution. The decision shall contain a statement denying all founding rights during the implementation of the recovery, but also two years after the completion of the recovery, and its founding rights shall rest during that period. Within the deadline within which the founder calls on the Government to implement the resolution, no law has been laid down except for units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other founders of public health institutions. The founders of these institutions shall, within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, invite the Government by the end of January to implement the resolution that they may not cover the resulting losses of health institutions or fulfil monetary obligations within the time limits laid down. If the call for recovery is found justified, the government shall make a decision on the recovery of a public institution. The resolution will be implemented in a manner established by the programme of rehabilitation of public institutions taken within 3 months of the entry into force of the Government's decision to resuscitate a public institution. The resolution programme shall establish the measures of the organisation, the rationalisation of the business of a public institution, in order to ensure that the activities of a public institution and financial operations are carried out in accordance with the law and other regulations. The recovery programme shall be carried out by the Resuscitation Manager, the Resuscitation Council and the Competent Ministry within 12 months of the date of adoption of the Resuscitation Programme. The Sanitary Manager, the Sanitary Council, continues to manage public institutions two years after the decision on the completion of the resolution takes effect. In short, they would only look back if it were possible for amendments that had already come. It means amendments to the Legislative Committee. That is, Amendment 1 does not accept Amendment 1 to Article 4 in relation to paragraph 4 because it is a Government. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23636	The government's amendment has arrived during the debate. He, the government's amendments that have arrived during the debate, will become part of an integral part of the bill. Therefore, you can explain the amendments to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23637	But I can do it tomorrow. It's no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23638	The government's amendment before or during the debate on the bill is an integral part of the proposal and is not voted on. If they come after the debate on the bill has been concluded, then the debate will be whether the amendment of the Government will be discussed at all, i.e. the adoption is under discussion. This has arrived during the debate, i.e. before the debate, and you have the right to explain the amendments to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23639	Here is the meaning of the amendments of the Government, where the majority of these are related to the expropriation of Article 11, which is due to the specificity of the implementation of the recovery procedure in the student centres compared to the other public institutions of a non-profit, i.e. the budgetary character and remains in force of the Law on the Restitution of Student Centres, so it was the amendment of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23640	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. Club of Croatian Labourists and Party of Rada, colleague Nancy Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23641	I'd like to thank Madam Vice President, the esteemed deputy with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here after these four amendments to the Government that have come, we need to ask why this law is called the rehabilitation of public institutions, so maybe we should give it a name for the rehabilitation of public institutions in health care because it refers to these very institutions. And since we're talking about this, then we need to ask why there is no Health Minister Mr. Ostojic here today who I think should also answer to, and it would be good to answer some questions. The outcome of this new law is the Health Protection Act, which speaks of who can be the founder of the institution and the Law on Institutions, which says that the founder is responsible for the results of the business in this present case. What exactly is the founder of a health institution responsible for, and how? HZZO determines the annual, or monthly budget or limit for each hospital owned by the county for example. The health ministry is signing a collective contract, which means hospital expenditures are, on that basis, fixed and determined and not by hospital founders, but by the ministry. A health standard has also been established, so all insurance rights are determined that all hospitals must have from that part of human potential to equipment and all of those standards, counties and administrative councils of hospitals select 2 or 3 members of the Governing Council and therefore the county participates as founder in the appointment of hospital directors. The KBCs overlay their costs to general hospitals that receive patients, make their diagnosis, determine therapy and return them to general hospitals, and specialize all those general hospital doctors who specialize in general hospitals are paying for the general hospital, and the KBCs in this case receive free labour. This model of health funding has been implemented since July 1st, '96. For years, so for 12 years. No director under this model, however capable or incompetent, party-like or professional, can simply influence his hospital incomes under this scheme. It may in that additional part of the income where it can achieve something through supplementary health insurance or systematic examinations of those who would come to that hospital to conduct a systematic examination. However, it is the counties as well as the owners of these county hospitals of employees who are bonds of systematic examination that are sent to private medical work. We are also witnessing that you are citizens due to a low standard of supplementary health insurance are becoming less and less able to afford. The question remains, then, how will the director in one hospital be successful and all of which will be able to reduce the spending side of the hospital budget with maneuvers. He can and has several tools at his disposal. It can reduce heat in winter, reduce cooling in summer, water in taps in hospital baths, not running. More and more of us are witnessing that patients themselves must carry the most basic supplies of toilet paper, pajamas, and everything else, and unfortunately we are witnessing that doctors are increasingly in hospitals asking the family to bring for this patient and what he needs in his daily care. The result of all of this is that HZO prescribed and gave hospitals actually less resources than health standards as prescribed. And so, the logical question arises is whether these are the losses of the institutions that we are now resuscitating by this law or the losses of the system. In this bill, we read that the obligations of hospital health institutions on 31 July 2012 amounted to nearly 2 billion kuna, and in the 2013 budget, 1.1 billion kuna was secured in the position. In a proposal for this law, the Proposer stated that a total of 5 billion kuna is needed for the resolution, i.e. to implement this law. So we're short 3.9 billion kuna if we're looking rough. From the point of view of the county's interest as the founder and owner of a health institution, this indent of Article 3(4) is most significant where the initiation of the recovery procedure is related to the statement of the founder, which disproves all founding rights during the implementation of the recovery and 2 years thereafter. This would mean, in practice, that the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, without the consent of the County, can change the activities of the institution, the organisation of the institution and its structure. This should also be observed in the context of our current health minister, where he announces significant changes in the number of hospital institutions, types of hospital institutions and everything else that we witness in his testimony. Therefore, we believe it is inappropriate for the counties as founders of these hospitals to remain completely unfounded, i.e. we still believe that it is necessary to provide that during the Sanantia process itself cannot and must not alter the self-organization and structure of the activities of the institutions without the opinion and consent of the original founder. We will, of course, propose amendments on that matter. In this bill of law, reading it as we have it on our benches today opens several very, very serious questions to which we should certainly hear your answer today. The assessment of the cause of the lack of income or the definition of the objective and subjective causes is not provided, therefore, in the case of hospital operations, when the hospital operates with a deficit and where the lack or non-profitability of that healthcare entity is the result of objective circumstances which are not affected by the administration and the founder. Within what period after the entry into force of this law do those uncovered obligations of institutions that are over 60 days old in the final account waiting for the hospital for 2012? The very dynamics of the settlement of liabilities by the Ministry of Finance are questionable, given what we have previously stated to be a significant amount of commitments of 60 days and the funds for the recovery of these debts in the state budget. What are the founders' powers during the recovery process? Does this founder of the hospital have any right to say anything about this hospital, or does everything go directly to the newly placed is not a bankruptcy manager if it's almost as if it is? The basics for the production of the methodology of the Sanantia programme are unknown, and they determine in many ways what the recovery process will be. So, according to this law, we have no guarantee that this resuscitator will be able to succeed, or our sole aim is to pass this law in order to spend the money from the budget, but we don't need any analysis of how successful this recovery board has been in implementing the Sanantia programme itself. What is the fate of the commitments made in the year of implementation of the Sanantia programme? So what about those new obligations that will arise in the recovery time? How to finance the activity of the institution during the recovery procedure in relation to institutions outside the sanity procedure? So we have institutions that do well or we have relatively few that are not critical of carrying out a recovery procedure, so the ones that we understand by reading from this law still remain functioning under the old law and this law only concerns those who are unsuccessful. What are the criteria and criteria for the rejection of the recovery procedure by the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Therefore, whoever is in these recovery problems, the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are making a decision on the recovery. We have another problem. as a member of the EU, we are obliged to comply with that Directive on patients' rights in providing cross-border health services until 1 July 2013. The health ministry will create a new mandatory health care plan as part of the health system financing action plan, which will define what is actually included in the basic insurance basket. Thus, basic health insurance within which all citizens were entitled to absolutely every medical service in July of the following year goes into history, and given the 4 billion old debt, 550 million new debt and the health budget of 2013. Since our budget also reduces that expenditure on prescription drugs by about 274 million kuna, to reduce our costs for stationary treatment by several by 3 billion kuna, so our budget reduces all possible patient rights that we have to reduce by 1.7 to some other basics, so we only have two scenarios. We can either reduce the number of services to patients or do a new deficit. Since here we are in a series of months of witnesses to what we choose in this House and how we make decisions at the expense of who, and in behalf of whom, then very easily give and we know the answer that we will in no way decide on the deficit of the budget that we are defending again, but then we will opt for patient damage. Because of all this I have said it would be more than desirable if the Minister of Health were here because it really does not concern itself, you are now a technical ministry that will carry out a certain registration or payment of certain debts, however, it is not a recovery of public health institutions is a short-term problem of the budget, but acute long-term budgets because certainly it will not be enough once to carry out the resolution unless some deep reforms are implemented in health so that patients have what they belong to and to keep what little they now have.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23642	Thank you very much. Replica, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23643	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues, you talk all the time about the recovery of hospitals, and the law is called the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions. If this is just content, and why don't we change its name, why do you euphemisms in Croatian politics, to keep things in a nice cellophane. Let's just say, it's the Hospital Resuscitation Act. Okay, then it's the Hospital Resuscitation Act. And I'm curious about what's going on, and I understand what happens if the ministry accepts the motion for recovery, it's already being resolved in some way, probably by changing the hospital's categorization, so the county hospital becomes city and thus cheaper and so on. But what happens if the ministry doesn't accept the recovery of the hospital, which is lost, is there a bankruptcy, liquidation, sale of the hospital as a set or bed by bed? I understand what's the result of the fact that the ministry doesn't want to take care of a hospital, and that possibility seems to me to be on the inside. All that we are talking about tonight is the result of a decision from the start of the mandate to reduce health contributions from 15 to 12. It is all the result of such a decision, a decision that abolishes the right to health. It's not a policy of saving, it's a policy of poverty, poverty and disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23644	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23645	Thank you, colleague Vuljanić, for once again confirming everything I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23646	It's the HDZ Club and counterpart Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23647	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. And I'd say the distinguished representative Tyrelli hit the core. And I was expecting the Minister of Health here because this law can really be called the Health System Restitution Act, and it would have to be the one who's responsible and for whom this law is passed. We can talk to you here today about health problems, and we don't have all due respect, metric talker for this issue, and for which reason Minister Ostojic is not here, I don't know. But at first, I can say that the HDZ Club will not accept this law for several reasons. First of all, as you said, this law is in contradiction with both the Constitution and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. And that's one formal reason the HDZ won't, the HDZ Representatives Club won't support this law. And the second is, look, right now, that you have five billion kunas to resuscitate the health system and do it tomorrow, and you don't want to do it tomorrow, this law falls like a ticket tower in a month. Why are we and why won't we support this law? For the simple reason that the health minister has done nothing in the past year, but nothing at all, as far as financial and then any other stability of the health system. Even for me, he insulted government members when he said the first structural reform of this government was a united public procurement. So there is no united public procurement of any reform, let alone what is called structural reform of the health system. I will read to you only one part of this law, Article 3, where it says: “The founder of the decision invites the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement the resolution when a public institution is founded by a unit of local and regional self-government and other founders, who, as the founder, cannot cover the losses incurred.” So the founder, county or city must say why he seeks the rehabilitation of the health system of his county or hospital one. In the meantime, I'll read you what everyone will answer. The President of the Administrative Council of the Pulse Hospital, a member of the ruling coalition, says this: "In the government and the ministry, no one has ever done an analysis of why such debts have arisen, probably because of poorly established hospital budgets, and all the time raises their voice to the directors and mayors." That would be about like this, build a wall one and come in a year and the wall is torn down. You're re-containing it, so you come in a year and it's down again, and you can do it year after year, if you don't know that wall's collapsing because of the bad concrete. So here, ten years later, we have, after ten years, not only do we have new debts in a year increased by nearly two billion kuna, but unfortunately we have ten years of first strike of nurses. But what happens when the founder is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and she is the founder of clinical hospital centres, which happens when she is not a good employer. Now look, you mentioned the data so on July 31st, so for the first 6 months, listen well, so the employer, in this case it's not the county or the city, but the government, so the obligations of clinical hospitals, clinical hospital centres are 2.9 billion kuna, which means that by the end of this year, only those institutions that I spoke in the adoption of the budget last year, the absence of any, not structural reforms, which means an increase in the debt of 760 million kuna for the first 6 months, which means by the end of this year only those institutions that the founder government will generate a debt of EUR 1 billion 620 million. Who's going to call the resolution managers to those facilities if the county calls the government. Will the Government then call on whom, the European Union, the European Union, to appoint its Sanantia administrator because the Government has shown that it is not able to manage the health system of the one who founded it. On the other hand, he calls the county, calls the hospital directors, the mayors, not to be able to run the health system. So because of all the health system conditions, because of the 2 billion new debt in just a year, the extended waiting lists, the first strike after 10 years I think when I should have had Minister Rajko Ostojić to endure, come here today, explain what he promised in the past year or during the election campaign when I told him that I would support the budget if the health ministry budget stays at the same level as in 2011. He sleazy said in one show no, it'd be bigger. The budget of the Ministry of Health ran out of billions of kuna, lost 2% of the contributions, which is an additional 2.5 billion kuna. But I'll remind you when there's a recovery of health care facilities. Up until now, about 14, 15, if not more, 25.3 billion kuna were spent when there was no recovery. When we entered a truly broad, extensive reform of the healthcare system of recovery only since the beginning of the Republic of Croatia was not in 2009, 2010 and 2011. How? In 2009, the HZZO budget was 23.5 billion kuna. I asked then my colleagues in the government to accept this inert case of health care that it cost 23.5 billion kuna and thank their colleagues for accepting it. But I said that I would enter a major reform of the health system and that we would reduce and rationalise costs and then we rebalanced the budget by 2 billion kuna. Contributions and pensions 3%, that is 45 million kuna, special items or own incomes of HZZO that do not affect the state budget. So the pension contribution wasn't easy to introduce, 3% of the contribution to 45 million kuna pensions and 404 million kuna insurance. Income from auto responsibility 174 million kuna. You remember when we introduced participation in primary health care, drug participation, and through this we got income from 500 million kuna and additional insurance we increased from 50 to 100%, and there we got an additional billion kuna. So during the health system reform, HZZO came past the budget of 2 billion and 175 million kuna, and that's why we were able to relieve those years of the state budget, and we rebalanced the budget for a billion 765 million because it was the 2011 budget. HZZO was 21 billion and 700 million kuna. But we have entered a major strong reform of the health system and should have continued with it. There's no reform and no point. Reform is a long-term process. And after Milinovic came Ostojić, nothing was done in a year, but nothing but lost for the health system 3 billion kuna and the availability of health care services, of course. After me, I'm spoken of by the esteemed representative Drmic. Will he be able to say as one of the leaders or any of the leaders of Osijek-Baranja County here the government is not a good employer of the Osijek Clinical Hospital because it is the founder. It's not good. And who, I repeat once again, is going to set up resurgency managers in that sense? We hold in HDZ that it is an attempt, and I hope, I would not like the Ministry of Finance to take that burden of responsibility on its back to let Minister Ostojic take it because this law will collapse as a tower of cards and you know it safely from the financial side, and so do we. Here's one county, which means centralization or decentralisation. And this is, in our opinion, an attempt or the possibility of political staffing to be taken from the national level at local level because it is not possible now. One county pays through contributions to the state budget of 163 million kuna. Now listen, this is very important. Because the recovery you spent from 500 million kunas is the taxpayer's money throughout the country, and the recovery was only for state institutions. It's not correct, it's not fair and it's not even legal. So one county has paid 163 million kuna contributions for the past year. In that county, the hospital costs 38 million kuna per year, health homes 40 million kuna, emergency medical care 20 million kuna, Croatian Public Health Institute 2 million kunas. Thus, health care costs 100 million kuna in the county. Have you heard how much this county has paid in the budget on the basis of contributions? 163 million kuna. So 63 million kunas took the plant, took the state. If those 63 million kunas were left in that county, it wouldn't be long. Another health organization could even be established. Of course, it's about Lika-Senj County. And there's another piece of information. One county pays six billion kuna. Now look at what it is centralised and why small hospitals in certain environments have and health homes have such problems. One county has paid six billion kuna. Hospitals in the county cost 4.4 billion kuna, primary health care of 800 million kuna, emergency medical care of 500 million kuna and the Croatian Institute of Public Health 200 million kuna. So the total health care in that county costs 6 billion kuna, and the payments contributes to 6 billion kuna. Zero to zero. Now, out of contributions you pay and sick leave that's 500 million kunas and drugs 800 million kunas. So another billion and 200. So, that healthcare pays 6 billion, spends 7 billion and 200. You know what county this is? About the City of Zagreb, which lacks a billion and 200 million kuna to cover the entire cost of health care of the city of Zagreb. So I compared Licko-Senj County as a smaller one where often the minister said that the CT should be abolished, so here he is welcomed by nurses and technicians. Last weekend, only 40 magnets were made, only Saturday and Sunday. So they're working Saturdays and Sundays. Now look, through this, we'd like to centralize taxpayers' money from all of the county's centralization and most rehabilitate clinical hospitals. And remember, and I'll do it again. So in the first six months, clinical hospitals created 760 million kunas of new debt. Not to mention, I'll end up introducing VAT on drugs and orthopaedic aids. You mentioned prescription drugs last year were 3 billion and 129 million. Every year they go up 10%. So, when the budget was realistically judged, it was supposed to be 3 billion and 400. So there's already a shortfall of 260 million kuna. But also VAT to that 5%, that's an additional 172 million kuna. Well, only in that item and hospitals pay VAT on drugs is 862 million kuna missing. Only in this item, not to mention particularly expensive drugs, orthopaedic aids, medical insemination. So, somewhere over a billion kuna. The budget for next year's health ministry guarantees only one more, Here I am, the collapse of the health system and the debt of two to three billion kunas. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Please bring the end.]] Because of all this, because of the lack of structural reforms in the Ministry of Health, I think the time has matured to reflect on the minister's responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23648	Thank you very much. The replica has Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23649	Dear Mr. Milinovic, you have begun your debate with the fact that you are sorry that it is except that there is a Deputy Minister of Finance that is not the Minister of Health or as you said the minister responsible for this situation. So I have to say that the minister responsible for this situation is here in the assembly. You don't see him, I understand why. Because a man doesn't see himself mostly, sees others. You're the minister responsible for this situation. I'm reading a chart that you haven't disputed, and no one has challenged it so far, which is that from 31.12.2011, so at the end of last year, by the time you were the minister of the total 5 billion, I'm rounding almost 2 billion. And that's why the rescue isn't about something else that you've been talking about. Therefore, the minister responsible for this situation is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23650	The answer to Darko Milinovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23651	You often lack communication in the SDP not only with a coalition partner but also between you. You remember, and probably everyone remembers the health minister saying he'd made a debt in the health system of 5.7 billion kuna. I don't know where he ended up, it was five or seven. Signed Prime Minister. The debt reached on 31.12.2011 when I completed the mandate was 2 billion kuna. But you need to know, and the ministry knows that this debt at the Ministry of Health at the start of the reform was $4.4 billion, and we cut it by 2.4 billion. The health system should have continued to be reformed. And so, once again, I'm going to repeat that over the first six months, the debt of clinical hospitals has been increased by 760 million kuna. But what you have to do, because the paper won't lie. So check it out! When was the rescue gone? Nine, ten, eleven. Why wasn't she here? Because there was no need. Why wasn't there a need? There was no accumulation of new obligations. Why wasn't there a pile of new commitments? Because then the minister in my childhood sat down with all the directors, with all the representatives of the board of directors and calculated the real costs of the hospital system and based on that, here you are my witness, were formed limits. Today's health minister has not found time in a year to meet with hospital directors who spend most of their resources from the state budget. And not only that, we heard today that on the 20 letters of one union leader, he was not worthy to answer. So today, I said one accident for the health system and it proves to be true, we have a 10-year re-strike in hospitals, and 10 years the same at the time of the crisis in '08. And '09. He was gone because there was no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23652	Thank you very much. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23653	Thank you. Well, here you are, Mr. Milinovic, perhaps I should refer to, for example, the 31st of July, the debt of only KBC of Zagreb practically made a billion-and-a-half kuna commitment, and the debt of all 23 county general and city hospitals in Croatia 1.6 billion kuna. So this very clearly shows where the problem generator is, and KBC Zagreb is a state-owned institution and there is no more state-run. The health care system I think you'll agree that by reducing the contribution by 2%, this system is completely unsustainable. And it was actually a political thesis that could reduce the contribution, and that it could preserve that system because it's clear without that 2.3 billion that this system would just go into further dubiosis. When you were talking about that system, about the walls that are collapsing because they're built out of bad material, it seems to me that these walls are collapsing and because they're on a bad base. And the foundation is actually the overall structure and structure of today's system as it is formed. And that system, you certainly in your mandate, in my humble opinion, have drawn a whole series of really good and quality moves, but still that structural change you didn't dare to carry out, and that would still be a structural change in actually health insurance but in those basics. And the third thing, just the state of these county hospitals doesn't really make any sense, they need to be rehabilitated and discussed at 7:30 after a whole day's debate about something this important actually doesn't serve the honor of those who run these sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23654	Replication response, Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23655	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you're right, and you've been well-detecting how much obligation the health system has made in the City of Zagreb compared to all other counties. You're saying I didn't go into structural reform. We're different, I think I am. And now that we mention Zagreb in Zagreb there were 17 hospitals before the reform. You remember when I went into the merger of Zagreb hospitals and we made four hospitals out of 17 hospitals. We had 17 principals, we had 34 assistants, we had 56 deputies, we had no 100 and some board members. Who was the most opposed to that? Today's Minister of Health. And I assure you that in three to five years, the Croatian healthcare system in Zagreb will be managed from one place. That's the goal. Without it, there is no progress of the health system in the Republic of Croatia. At the time, the main opponent of the merger was SDP and today's health minister Rajko Ostojic. And then they asked why Zagreb? So because Zagreb spends more, almost half of the total resources for health care. But the minister wanted to cancel the missus hospital. It wouldn't have brought anything to the health system. You heard what I said 38 million kuna a year cost Miss Hospital. Well, let's get her out of here. Nothing's gonna happen. 38 million, nothing's gonna happen. And by connecting Zagreb hospitals, we also rationalized 156 million kunas. So, you should hit where there's a lot of trouble. I told you how much Ličko-Senj County is paying in the budget and how much is the City of Zagreb. And now let's see who can cover it out of contributions and who can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23656	And the last replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23657	My dear colleague, you spoke of two things that are very important in the health system. This government wants to centralise decisions and money and decentralize responsibility. And that's what's fundamental to fighting even though we've been promised to be decentralisation in all systems, everything will be decided at all levels, will be democratisationd. When budgeting was made and tax mini-reforms or reforms were called whatever they were calling doing when health contributions were reduced by 2%, Labourists warned that the health system would collapse. He's slowly collapsing. What Djurovic said before is impossible with so little money to keep this level or the level that was previously treated in hospitals. It turns out that soon, and for a very short time, only the rich who have money will be able to be treated and the poor will die.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23658	Replication response, Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23659	Thank you very much. You gave me two more minutes to tell you I haven't arrived from the pay phone yet. To resuscitate the health system, it takes 5 billion kuna, we don't see them in the budget. Now let's go back a little bit or let's look into the future, how are we going to impose or find those five billion kunas? By privatising Croatia's insurance, privatising Croatian highways and the only strong national bank of the Croatian Post Bank. Let's not vote for this because I'm going to remind you, is that in the difolt of this government? How did she resuscitate HZZO in 2002? And it's an interesting object the DORH didn't investigate. They sold the Pliva stock control package, watch this word and this figure for 750 million kuna, they rescheduled the health system. Pliva stock was worth a billion and 100 million kuna in two months, so 400 and how many 50 million kunas less than it could have been done in two months and 2000 seems to me the second year. As far as Croatia's insurance is now worth on the market, the Croatian Post Bank and the Croatian Highways, and how much will it be worth when we enter the EU when we finally get out of the crisis. I guess we won't or you won't make that mistake again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23660	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23661	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and fellow MPs. I think this is a very important topic that we are discussing today, especially because by adopting a law like this, we will allow the spending of as much as 5 billion kunas from the Croatian state budget. I think it's a little bit unserious here at this time of day or at this time of night to discuss it before this little is to say half-empty council. At times, I feel like we're doing something really bad, so we've been waiting for the night to fall so nobody can see or hear us. The fact is that despite the fact that the law itself is not called health care, that health care institutions are, the fact is that the main problem that we find in public institutions that need to be rehabilitated are just health institutions, there are clinical hospitals that mean the institution that is the founder of the Croatian state or general and smaller hospitals that are the founders of the unit of local administration. The fact is, there's a lot of things in the health department that aren't right. On the one hand, we have one relatively bad service for which patients with right of rebellion are large waiting lists, and on the other hand we can say that we spend a lot more in health than this state and the health system can endure. What's the reason for the debt of a health care institution? So far, they've been cca 5 billion kunas somewhere, so in the first nine months of this year. By this law, I don't think we're gonna put out a fire or put it under control. It's just throwing a little water into one big fire and you won't see any lasting results and very soon we'll meet again in this place with some new law that will predict some new recovery in one way or another. The fact is that people here in the report see 51 healthcare institutions, every single one of them is a loss. Someone smaller, someone already depending on how many patients they've received over the past period. I don't want to believe that all these 51 hospital directors are incompetent people who can't find a way for their institutions to do positive business. I believe most of you will agree with me. And that's one of the proofs that it's not the responsibility of the directors of the facility. There is even less responsibility on the founders of these institutions, which are the only ones provided for in this law to be punished. The law, however, excludes the punishment of the state because the minister, apart from continuing to manage through the Sanician Council and the Sanantia governor of the state hospitals, is once again centralizing the little decentralisation that was the so-called decentralisation. in its administration, it also takes those institutions which are the founders of the local administration unit. In the third month today, the minister reduced the limits. So we all know what the limit is, that's the amount of money a single institution can spend in the current year. He reduced them by 4% at 3 months. It was some kind of attempt to save money, today we see that it's impossible. How can a hospital director save money? Something small on some sort of supply of material resources is so small that in this report and these debts you probably wouldn't even notice. It can save by firing a part of the people and it is certainly not a good solution because we all know that we are deviating from the European average. You know how many healthcare professionals come in for as many patients. We are worse than the European average and such a single savings would not be fair to patients who visit these health institutions. The only way for directors to save some significant resources means that in the 8th or 9th month, it should be calculated precisely by locking hospitals, that they simply don't receive patients from that date. When someone sick comes to the hospital to say listen today it's 23.6 we've met our limit, we simply don't have the means to receive any new patients by the new year, we don't have money for drugs, we don't have any money for bed linen. We've left so much so that we can pay employees and minimum directorial expenses by the New Year's Eve. We all know that and that's impossible. People must have all the conditions and the possibility of receiving medical attention. So there's got to be some other way to solve this problem. It is not the solution of these 5 billion kunas that we will once speak to colleague Milinovic in which I do not know in which way we will obtain in the state budget and beat him up to cover the existing and current debts because as I said in a year these debts will probably be the same as they are today, only he will be fresher. What should we do to make a quality health reform, that with as much money as we have, we provide maximum care to our citizens seeking help for their health problems at the hospital? The question should be answered by Minister Ostojic, who is unfortunately not here with us. I also listened to his speeches in the pre-election campaign, I expected him to have one complete plan for revitalising the rehabilitation of Croatian health care. Today I see that it is not so, even those mistakes made by Minister Milinovic in his term, when together I and my colleagues and you colleagues from the SDP, including Minister Ostojic, who was together criticising Mr Milinovic, I expected, even spoke to me in Djakov where the birthplace was closed, wait for Milinovic to leave. Here comes Ostojic, he has promised to return the town of Djakov to the birthplace, and here it has been nine months, Mr. Ostojic is not responding to the calls of women and citizens of Djakov. The same thing was with emergency services where the same silly savings were from not insulting Minister Milinovic where he reduced the number of emergency teams, so it happened to us when someone from the house called us an ambulance, that the medical team who was on duty that night or day had to lock the door and go provide help to the man who asked for a home visit. At the same time, someone got sick, put him in a car, brought him to an ambulance, in front of an office where he kissed a locked door. So we had about a year of two deaths where people died at the emergency door, I remember, and then Minister Ostojic's statement was saying that immediately after the authorities took over and the problem was solved. The problem has not been solved either, some counties have abolished these emergency medical services or emergency services and are locking those doors when they are on the ground. People are still sick waiting. Thank God there were no deaths after those two that happened a year ago. In particular, my county repairs these losses that the ministry does not, although I do not know about the financial situation, the financial power, the county as much as it will be able to do. I would also point out that all these costs that I've listed are centralized, the director simply has one track as a moving train and only signs the Virmans. He must respect collective agreements signed by the ministry. It has absolutely no influence, it can't cut wages, it can't pay Christmas cards, it can't fail to pay off a regress, it can't pay off jubilee awards and a number of other things that the hospital took over as a commitment from a collective contract, the director didn't sign that contract, but he signed a former health minister, a new collective contract that appears will be signed by today's director. So I think it's really unfair for the headmaster and the hospital to either connect or call for the dues. I know 51 of them probably had more rational behavior, so let's make it 5, 10.7, but it's certainly not 51. I can say in the end on behalf of my club that we will not support this law. This resolution could, as so far as it did not have some quality reform done without the adoption of such a law, so the ministry could settle those debts through its funds from the state budget in order to reduce the current or temporary fire in the health care sector. The only way and reason to pass this law is to take founding rights to local administration units and thus punish them for these debts even though we are all aware that units of local administration can in no way be blamed for the debts incurred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23662	Thank you. Replica, Drazen Djurovic:
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23663	Thank you. Namely, Mr. Drmitch, the answer to your question about how to make the health system work positively. The question was not found by Barak Obama or Angela Merkle or by practically one European head of state, so they will not find a Croatian government, or almost no health care system in Europe, nor in the Western world is doing a positive job. Everyone's somewhere on the verge of some kind of public health system, everyone's somewhere on the verge of some negative balance or some negative zeroes. But that negative balance does not take over the state itself, but is taken over by health insurance companies that are not state-owned and state-owned. Of course, we have a completely different system where things stand the way they do. I would also not agree with you at all with the director's responsibility, certainly among the directors whether much and politically placed similar and incompetent and various, and indeed there is a more quality director and less quality, and their founders, their owners, were never aware of it, nor did they ever know or wanted to recognize those among them who were better quality or those who were less quality or, unfortunately, about the county, and the country was always necessarily the only policy dictated by the ownership structure and when the state of that county hospital, then the state policy would, instead of example, dictate who would be directors, and it would not be particularly led anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23664	Replication response, Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23665	I agree with Mr. Djurevic most of the time, and I can agree with him in his replica, but he's a doctor, so he's probably looking at the whole health situation from the other side of the line than I see it. The fact is that one health care problem is one of the major problems around the world. We're tracking a rich America where it's just breaking a spear because one Barack Obama is also trying to make one health reform in America to make that health care available to everyone. There was a cruel situation that anyone who had no money, still partly such, who had no money was destined to die somewhere on the street or at home simply the situation was such that he was unable to seek medical help and it was one of the solutions to our health care if we were looking at it on some financial side. Then maybe we'll have some money and stay in the fund. I don't think that's a good direction for the Croatian state, I think that the Croatian state should keep one such health care that is widely available to all their citizens, if it is necessary to tighten the belt on some other side. I know it's a crisis now and we've got enough money to patch up all the holes in the budget, but I think it's okay to maybe make some kind of programmed loss in the future, with a desire for health services to be available to all people. So every year we're going to separate a billion or two or three billion kunas, we're counting on that kind of health loss. It is easy to settle it, but I say once again, it must not allow patients and citizens of Croatia to feel this crisis and recession at their health and health service, i.e. loss in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23666	And the next replica Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23667	Of course, my colleague Drmić is not responsible for the principals. I'll only mention three hospitals, two state and one county. The Rijeka hospital had a budget of 58 million kuna, now 48, a month 10 million kuna less and with such a budget Professor Haller cannot be held accountable because he was simply brought into such a situation. Zadar, a million kunas less monthly, at an annual level of 12 million kuna. The clinic hospital center "Rebro" for 12 million kuna budgets a month less, so a year 144 million kuna. So only those three hospitals, only those three hospitals are missing in order to positively operate 177 million kunas. I said the health system is missing 250 million kuna a month. Where's the difference? When I somehow formed the budget I sat down once again with all the directors and all the directors agreed that it was a good budget and then I asked for their responsibility and for three years we didn't create a new debt. Now the directors get the mail here you get the limit, you don't need to agree and you don't need to say anything about that limit. There's still time at the health ministry's next year's what, a billion and 100 or a billion or 700 million kuna. So let's get that back to the health ministry of those billions and 700 million kunas, let it sit with the principals, 50, I don't know how many there are, let it sit with them, let them calculate the actual costs, and let them increase the limits and then we'll all raise our hand here for irresponsible directors who, at that opportunity, are incompetent. And you see how public sector collapses when employees from the prime minister's office go into the private sector. Remember what Rajko Ostojić said and SDP, we will cancel the contracts with privates. You know what the truth is, there were 40 contracts with private polyclinics, now they have two more. And you know what I'm going to say, I'm not going to say stop, I'm going to say it's a good, complementary system must be because without the private sector in healthcare there is no progress of health care in the health system. I'm not going to say it should be lifted as the minister of today's demagogy said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23668	Replication response, esteemed Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23669	My colleague Milinovic, in part, agrees with your presentation, but I have no opportunity to say from these 51 directors that none of them made any mistakes and that he did not increase in the important debt his hospital or institution has. But I can also be responsible and stand behind these statements of 51, 51 institutions, all 51 have made a loss. It's impossible for all 51 directors to be incapacitated. So I repeat again, there may be 5, 7 or 10 incompetents who have 10 or 15% of their incompetence more debt than they would have done all right, but the fact is that there are 20, 30 or 40 who did their best to make patients happy and that the debt that their institutions make is minimal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23670	We're continuing an individual debate. I'm sorry, on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23671	Dear Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is the Law on the Resuscitation of Institutions, the truth God is well-invited to its adoption because of the state of health, but if we look closely at the law he refers to other institutions, not only health institutions, and it is possible to launch a resolution in other institutions, and there are problems in other institutions, not only in health care, but later on. This is one of the laws we have to pass, which we had to pass. We wish we didn't have to, we wish there wasn't a law like this, but it's just a situation that requires the adoption of the Restitution Act. In fact, this law is the Law on the Rehabilitation of a Part of HDZ Government and we must make it clear and loud. The reason for this law is therefore a debt in healthcare which, from 31.12 last year at the end of the HDZ rule was 5 billion, totalling 2 billion, and we want to get rid of it. And this law is therefore the resolution of the poor rule of HDZ, that's just the way it is. Unfortunately, it's not just the case with this law, and it's not just the case here. This week, these days, we have had a budget ahead of us, and unfortunately in the good part there is nothing more than the resolution of the poor rule of previous years, the rule of the HDZ and its coalition partners. The budget deficit for the next year we discussed these days is cca 10 billion kuna. And all the 10 billion we don't have, which we have less in the budget, less in revenue than we're going to spend going to what? To resuscitate previous loans from return to interest, on loans previously taken by the HDZ government. So, it looks like we're only dealing with recovery, I just don't know how long we're gonna have to. That it's not and it's not all. We've got about 15 billion more somewhere, so the debt that's left to be recovered. So I said in health care about 5 billion, pension fund a billion and 700. Long shipbuilding needs to be rehabilitated about nine billion. About 15 billion is the dowry left to us by the HDZ government. That's what we need to get rid of. It's huge money. We could easily do so if we wanted to continue to be in debt, as the HDZ government did. Their responsibility every year for the past few years has been 15 billion kunas, and we're down to 10. Five billion less a year. And if we were to take 5 billion more in debt these four years, that's 20 billion, we could do without a problem to solve all of their indifferences that they had and continue to do as we please. But we don't want to. We do not want to continue to bring Croatia into debt slavery and continue to be in debt, but we will try to resuscitate with minimum duties what is left behind. Of course, I understand HDZ's behavior. They gave whoever they needed, they didn't want anyone to mind. Because my God, if you object to someone, they'll deny your voice, you'll lose the election. However, they lost the election again even though it's good, but the debts remain to all of us which is not good. So they lost the election, but the damage was done to Croatia, and now we have to take care of it. And now we have to wonder why in health care are these problems? Well, people in health care, administrations in healthcare acted simply according to the model that was set up in Croatia – they waste irresponsibly no matter how much you have. It was a policy that lasted for years in Croatia, which spent patiently and persistently every year in the HDZ. We want to end it. Of course not all the problems that are only objective, but there are many that are subjective. There are also a lot of costs that wouldn't have to be like that if our institutions were more responsible and asked them to behave more responsibly. Unfortunately, the model I'm saying was such that it was allowed to them, because it allowed itself to behave as debauchery as it was. And if it were dissuaded, irresponsible behavior, I don't think it should convince anyone else not only here, but no one in Croatia. If someone thinks it's not like that, I can start counting. Some things have their own court epilogue. They're happening right now. If you could say otherwise, I'd say on one of the examples I personally participated in. So in 2000, we found a pretty bad situation in some institutions. I also participated in the rehabilitation of the University of Zagreb Student Centre. We managed to reduce the expenditures per year by 12 million kuna in three years, which is about 6% of all expenditures, while no student had less, unroasted or unwashed bed linen and each still had its own meal. Just rational behavior, responsible and honest. We did it. For the prize when HDZ came back to power in 2004, we were removed because we needed to bring in theirs, similar to those who had re-expended and moaned without responsibility as the entire HDZ did. And now again, the Student Centre in Zagreb is in front of the recovery, because it has about 130 million, by the end of the year there will be around 130 million kunas of debt, outstanding liabilities. And that's what we have to break up with. We broke up at the state level, here in Parliament and the government brought in a more responsible administration, and we have to do it and still like it or not. I mean, someone's gonna say there's not enough money to get rid of. That's right. To resuscitate everything left for us would be too little and too little German budget, not just Croatian. The budget of the Federal Republic of Germany wouldn't be enough to resuscitate everything you've left us. And normally we don't have that money, and we won't be in debt on purpose, because we don't think it's responsible and it's not right for us and for those who come behind us. But in the next two, three years, we're going to take care of it all, try without any major borrowings. What I'm a little afraid of, and I'm afraid of, and that's next. We will re-recover the situation in the economy, in the institutions, in the administration, behave rationally. We're not hiring new people, we're not hiring our own people. We'll stabilize Croatia. And then the elections will come, people will forget what they've done before, so maybe they'll pick them again, and then once again when they've got clean papers, neatly move on again, spend irresponsiblely and again in a circle. And that would be, that fear of mine would remain if the citizens didn't have salt in their heads. But they have citizens of salt in their heads. They won't let me hope twice this time from the same snake hole bite them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23672	We have two replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23673	Thank you very much, Vice President. Who's to blame? It's an eternal question whenever there's a change of government. The Croatian Health Insurance Institute when we started reforming the health system has reached 2.1 billion kuna. When we lost the election, he had 300 million kunas. Now in this year 900 million kuna. And I guess we're not, if we're guilty of something earlier, we're not to blame for these years. So only the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has made a new debt of 600 million kuna. And that says, 600 million kuna. Well, we're not to blame for that, are we? Well, it's not our fault that this document clearly states that the new debt in the first six months of KBC is 760 million kuna. Now, don't charge us with the news that we heard this afternoon that one of the financial agencies changed the credit rating from positive to negative because of the deficit that rose from 3.5 to 3.8 next year. I am truly sorry that this will be repeated several more times until the end of this debate which is not here Health Minister Rajko Ostojic, he is guilty. I am sorry that there is only Deputy Minister Linic, I will say regardless of party discipline, Minister Linic you as deputy and you end the deputy have my sympathies. I kind of keep quiet that you're trying something and it's good, you're trying. Well, man is wrong in all these attempts. But the health minister isn't trying anything, he's watching P.R.ski respond to the nurses' strike today. The only answer he says will not be paid. Well, that's not the answer. And that's why I'm sorry he's not here, and I don't suppose I'm going to bear the sanctions of a party that I have sympathy for the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23674	It's late, yes, it's late, so they didn't hear you well. Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23675	You said your colleague Milinović, so you're not to blame for what's happening in hospitals now, etc.? Yes, it is! You're guilty of more than what I just said. I just don't have time to say everything you're guilty of. I'm supposed to name it all the time for what you're guilty of. And the propos hospital I see Mr. Reiner KBC Rebro, which is the largest health institution in Croatia, the new administration came in the 7th month, two months ago, three. So who's to blame for... in Rebr, the new management that arrived at the 7th month before the annual vacation? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you're talking long this year. Well, that's your fault and that debt again. The consequence is your rule. You're telling us about the Fitch agency, so we're not to blame, so who's to blame, but you? Well, it's your fault for leaving so much debt. We, the deficit, made out of 10 billion, 900 million,... Please don't interrupt me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 900 million more than last year. That's right. Why? To settle interest debts from your period. So everything we do, we take care of all the nonsense and nonsense that you left behind. Well, of course you're guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23676	Another replica, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelusic, don't be so confident when you say you're solving the debts that someone has made before this current government, the health problems have lasted since '96. For years, that's what we've said since the start of some new reform. And also your former Minister Andro Vlahusic left a debt in healthcare of 2.5 billion kuna when he left. Check that out. The easiest thing to do is to get involved in someone's guilt and someone in front of me did something, and that's why it's hard for me to do what I promised. I assume you knew very well when you promised what you were going to and that you weren't naive enough not to know how much something was and what someone left behind. So, it doesn't look serious when you're always saying you have to, that it's hard for you because you have to settle someone's debts before. I'd like to hear how much Croatia has owed since you've been in power. Why don't you talk about it? Well, that's the data the citizens would like to hear. So, new debts are being made, and new debts are being made. Don't say that now it's hard to get out of the budget and that we have to take everything down and take all the rights and raise taxes in order to pay the debts that someone's done before. Don't!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23678	And this replica corresponds to Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23679	Comrade Tyrelli, we are no longer in debt but as much as we must to resuscitate what happened. If that's not the case, I'll give you the information so you can see them. But we're in charge five times more than we're in debt and even more than HDZ is in debt if we all finance what you promise?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23680	We're continuing the club debate. HNS club and respected Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23681	Dear Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm really gonna be short. HNS is thinking of a way to start us from somewhere. So, the fact is that we have debts, the fact is that if we want to try to get the system in order that we have to take some bills to zero and that we have to be rational and that this move is going in that direction that we have some kind of clean start or that we have to give a chance for some clean start. I won't talk about the past, Mr. Milinović and I personally cooperated, I would say not even bad, we've worked very well together regardless of not being the same political option and I, say, come from a county where most hospitals except KBC Rijeka whose owner of the state does not have any particular financial problems and dubiosis and operate successfully. Why is that? And there's probably some other reason to find out. So, it's not just about the system, it's something in people who manage. Is everything in order here that writes out of all these county hospitals that have a major debt error system there should make one analysis. And that's why on behalf of the CNS, I'm going to say something that I think maybe we still think we should have done, and that's that maybe we should have offered a restructuring and reform plan first. All those directors Mr. Milinović spoke of and let them know what it is to do to make them offer themselves solutions to problems, and then to be in charge or only partially in charge. Because not everyone is in the same trouble in this whole system. And so, of course, it's an analysis that the Ministry of Finance couldn't do but it's one analysis that had to be done and I hope it's for the Ministry of Health because this resolution will only be successful if we get one quality reform plan, restructuring. I would not say reform with this reform we constantly waved, some of the systematic activities that should be undertaken in our healthcare system so that it would become at least optimal even though it would not be safe in some short time in the future what our citizens would like. You have a strange math in health care, I'm not a health care professional, but when I came to the county in time to run a health care system, then there's a man who's been here long in health care, you know, unfortunately in healthcare, you 1+1 are never 2 but 3. Namely, this system is thus driven backwards for 15, 20 years that 1+1 is=3 and we have brought ourselves into a situation where I need that one that we've been adding somewhere to level up and try to do everything possible for problems to create structural and systemic problems in that system to solve. Here I was trying to be brief. Hardly, here we could talk for a very long time about each institution, Mr. Milinović said the mention of KBC Rebro and compared it with the county of Lika-Senjska and the hospital in Gospić, but we all know that the gravity of patients is towards Zagreb from all over Croatia, that the gravity of patients from like one good part of KBC Rijeka, so we here have to deal with, it is not good that we are actually politically bickering over this topic because there could be a whole series of counterarguments found for what you said, but probably a lot of arguments that would not go in favor of the party that proposed this law. So I think quite rationally the HNS will support the adoption of this law, but I say that in the shortest possible time and as the minister promised us in time when we had a strategy that we would be familiar with quite concrete measures that this resolution would have results in a way that we would not have a new recovery in 5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23682	Thank you, too, for the rational consumption of time, yet one replica Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23683	Thank you very much. I am pleased that the distinguished representative Đuric confirmed good co-operation. I'll honestly say I was even more sensitive to those environments where HDZ wasn't in power. you can confirm that there is almost no proposal that we have not adopted from the level, almost no I said, almost no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But look, one more time about responsibility. The last recovery before this was a billion kunas in 2007. It didn't occur to us, and we distributed, and all the hospitals were rehabilitated, and it didn't occur to us to take management rights to cities and counties, it didn't occur to us. Why? That's why we had and fought within the Ministry of Health, the health care then for sufficient resources and told the director what the spending of 3 million kuna, 5 million kuna. Do you agree that your budget will be 5 million kunas? Yeah. Now you're responsible. I didn't find any directors that he was incapacitated. I am at the end of my term, but that's less important. So we didn't get rid of a billion kunas, but we didn't take management rights, and we didn't think it was centralization, not decentralisation of the health system. When I was talking about the recovery and the sale of Pliva for 750 million kuna, and in two months it was worth a billion and 100 million kuna, I forgot to say one important fact, it was all done by my colleague Jelusic when you and your SDP were in power without a decision of the Government and the Governing Council of HZZO, no one is asking the question that a little DORH is actually asking a question but someone obviously doesn't want to take a little bite at it, without a decision from the Government without a decision from the Governing Council of a billion-dollar control package of Pliva shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23684	A response to the replica of Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23685	Well, I won't replicate the content of what Mr. Milinović said, but I would say something or I would say something that he repeated several times while he was Minister and today in the debate, and I would like it to happen to Croatian and Croatian healthcare, if we had a consensus on all the political options on the topic of healthcare. He talked about it a lot while he was a minister and I would like it to happen if we had a former and current minister who would respect what they said while they were ministers, so probably all of this would be much, much simpler going forward and probably not in our health problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23686	We're moving on to an individual debate. First distinguished representative of Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23687	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. There's the law before us. I'm sorry. I can't believe you already have a replica on my behalf. All right. In front of us is the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions, so perhaps to begin by saying the word recovery means healing, of course, that from these discussions of the previous and the opposition and the ruling can be seen and made clear that this procedure itself will not mean healing unless it drags anything after itself. So just cover the current debts, and not do anything further would really mean that we didn't take a good step. However, I will say that this would be a scenario if it were to continue to do absolutely the same as it has been done so far. And some data, just Mr. Milinovic mentioned the Osijek-Baranja County, and I was already talking about it here, show that regular business, so with attention to where the money goes, how the debt and the hospital can be managed in a very good way by the Clinical and Hospital Centre Osijek, and I'm talking about it again here because I'm proud of it, that the debts are very restrained and that they are not spent as they were in the last term, and if the other hospitals are doing so, which is generally, what clinical hospitals or clinical hospitals will not be necessary for such recoverys. So we've heard today that the total obligations of health care institutions are 5.1 billion with 31.12. Compared to that, it's an amount that we could build as many as 5 to 6 completely new hospitals with a capacity of, say, 300 beds. Of these 5 billion 1.8 billion is the debt of general hospitals that are the founder of the county, 300 million debt of special hospitals that are the founder of the county, city or other legal entities. So we have a big and serious problem of indifference and deficits. I'll give you one piece of zoning information. In Vukovar-Srijem County, the budget is approximately 170 million kuna a year, a wine-loving hospital of 55 million, a Vukovar 39. So 94 million together. Zadar Hospital 140 million, and 172 is the budget, the Sibenik Hospital 228 million, almost double the county's annual budget. So according to the Law on Institutions, the founder is obliged to cover those debts. It's clear to all of us, and we've talked a lot about this on the Health and Social Care Committee, that the county obviously doesn't have any money for it. Of course the state is seeing that we have a really difficult acute problem decided to intervene. So we need to take this initial step, to break this indifference chain and move towards healing or rehabilitation of public institutions, in this case hospitals and student centres. So, there's been a lot of talk here that it's some kind of centralised indicator, that we want, that the minister wants to put his paws on the county general hospitals. But I'm going to say a few scenarios that can happen. One scenario is for hospitals to operate neatly, there is no debt whatsoever, under the authority of the county, the county names the administrative council, appoints the director. So that decentralisation is absolutely, it's a positive example and he wherever there is, is commendable and greeting worth it. The two scenarios would be that hospitals operate with a minus county according to the Law on Institutions cover the minus, so they respond, behave responsibly, and thus again we have a positive example. The scenario three would be that hospitals operate with a minus, the state covers the minus, and the county still has jurisdiction over the hospital. So I think it's clear to everyone that it doesn't make sense. Or the scenario four would be completely unacceptable and it would mean centralised completely unwarranted if hospitals were to operate positively, and the minister, or the ministry or government would want the hospital's authority, so to eliminate the possibility of the county's influence on business and to name management at the end of the line. So I'm an absolute advocate of decentralisation, but not in a way when it comes to the sweet responsibility to say so, to be called management, then mayor, the county has jurisdiction, and when it comes to debt, then we have no money. Apparently, some hospitals, here's a colleague in front of me, were talking about it, some hospitals don't have debts, so it's still showing that they can. In the media, I saw on several occasions the title of the new law will allow Ostojić to manage the county hospitals. I would say that the more accurate title would be, that the new law of the minister would force himself to take control of the county hospitals because it's not about anything anyone would like and that someone would be very comfortable taking responsibility. However, the responsible government must take certain steps if it sees a situation like this, as has occurred in both general hospitals and in KBCs, clearly as well as in student centres. This is a boredom of 13 recoverys and I, I'm sure she'll be happy even though they say 13 is an unfortunate number, and successful and that's why I will absolutely support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23688	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Borzan, and before you started expressing your opinion on the replica, Darko Milinovic, appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23689	Let's see if there's an answer before the replica. Well, you're still the president of my parent board, so I immediately picked up the plate so that someone wouldn't do it before me. They're congratulating you today, something's kissing you, maybe it's your birthday. Happy birthday to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23690	Answer. Very charming fellow Milinovic. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23691	I thank you, and I hope that's why you won't have a problem with the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23692	We're continuing an individual debate. Vice President of the House, esteemed Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. Let me congratulate my birthday first, too. I didn't know. First of all, I have to say, I'm very sad. I'm very sad that we're talking about this at 9:00 p.m. on a very, very important subject. We all always say that we care deeply about our health, to everything expensive, and then usually such topics, we can't get the impression that it's not an accident. When we talk about science, when we talk about education, when we talk about health care, we all swear on how important it is to us, it always sort of ends up like that at 8, 9, and here in the hall is 20 people out of 150 people, the transfer is, of course not, and we're talking about very important things, we're talking about huge money. We're talking about billions of kunas, and it seems that neither our colleagues nor the public nor anyone is very interested in it. But I also have to join in actually a few of my predecessors to say that I'm actually sorry that there's only the Assistant Minister of Finance who in some way is neither guilty nor obliged because we're actually talking about health care, and that there's no health minister and we're actually saying, I'm going to try very banally to say some things. So far it's been said, the whole spectrum has been mentioned, so we're talking about, some have given very precise and very precise analysis of the situation, some have gone more exclusively to political and even disqualifications. I'm not going to talk about the past at all because I think that in the end and this law, and we all need to look at the future together, what we're going to do, if we're going to solve something, if we don't solve what we want to solve, etc. Now let's look at what this law says, which I agree should be called the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions in Health because it applies exclusively to them. With this amendment, we've also thrown out student centres, and that's the only way we're talking about it. So we're talking about the recovery of actually a health institution although the law is directed exclusively I dare say towards county and city health institutions. The figures are quite simple, but in the state budget it is not very transparent and not explicitly written, but if it can be read a little, it is expected to be approximately a billion and 100 million kuna. Debts are about 5 billion kunas, or liabilities, let's call it that. Now, we've already got a big problem, so we're short 3.9 billion kuna, almost 4 billion kuna, and this is the law we're thinking about solving the problem. Therefore, it is certain that we will not solve this problem. It is certain what will happen, all of these county institutions and city institutions owned by counties, cities, etc., in 30 days should be of these owners calmed down. We know very well that none of the only ones will be because simply these counties, the cities, if they had that money, would have given it sooner and settled the debts. It will therefore be one state or centralisation of these health institutions. But there will be, there will now be a big problem for the minister, for the government, etc. What's gonna happen? Of course, the minister will appoint new bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy councils, I call it that name because that is, of course, it will be named by political criteria, we understand that it will be so. However, they will be in a very difficult position because I assure you that in a year they will not be able to significantly reduce debts. I assure you. The whole law has been timed strangely for three years. Is that for three years because by the next election, we're three years short, I can't get rid of that impression, so control will be three years, and after who lives, who dies. It's certainly not in a year, not in two years, not in three years, it won't be possible to reduce debts alone, and that's quite clear. The first thing that will happen, however, which I will remind you of all together, is the next. When a recovery occurs and all these new managers are named, they will be obliged to actually pay their obligations under the Financial Responsibility Act. You know what the Financial Liability Act says? If they are unable to pay their debts in 60 days, they will have to be removed and the minister will find himself in a position to replace those same people that he will put a few months earlier. Probably, I have no illusions, he won't replace them because they will be politically set up, so there will be some other excuse, there will be some new law, some new approach to avoid it, but that should happen next. Because quite certainly again, if instead of 5 million in a system that takes 5 billion to start eventually paying off your debts given a billion and 100 you can't cover your debts and these hospitals won't be able to pay their debts within 60 days and we all know that in advance. We can pretend now as much as we want not to know, and all those who took part in it here, too, but that's known in advance. They won't be able to pay their commitments within 60 days. Following the Financial Responsibility Act, they would have to settle it. What does it look like in real life? Well, it seems that unfortunately the money is gone, the HZZ has no money to settle everything that is actually promised to the citizens, which is actually available to the citizens, etc. And then you have situations like a county hospital, like a varazdin hospital owes 180 million kuna. It generates approximately 2 and a half million losses every month. But what is it? So they cover, they receive and process about 20 thousand residents of 20 thousand patients a year, and they actually have the means for 12300 a year. And you can't with the 12300 money you can't treat and supply 20,000. And it's simple math. We were just talking about a pulse hospital. The Pula hospital also owes 180 million kuna. Where's the county coming from? Of course he won't have it. Of course, some new manager who's going to put himself there is going to generate debts again. What's he gonna make up? What kind of a twist would be made up of a copernicus then to prevent the implementation of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, I don't know. But I guarantee you you'll have to think of something because these new managers will be in the same position. They won't be able to pay it without any extra money. So, if he really wanted to get rid of himself first, there should be 4 billion kunas we don't have. I know the budget's gone. Then it would bring everything together to zero, put it in front of the next one, etc. A commitment not to make new commitments, new debts. But they should therefore significantly increase their budgets for which there is no funding again. So we need to understand that this, I don't know the meaning of this procedure. But he certainly didn't also emerge from the document that was waning, discussing, promising. The health development strategy that I said at the time, and now I remind you all again that from 417 pages there are only 23 pages in the future in this printed edition, slightly dilated, expanded, etc., that it's actually an analysis of the situation and there's no vision of anything in it at all. And if the proof that she's adopted here, you're her, we all voted her there. I didn't, but you did mostly two months ago. So in that book of 417 pages, no letters, there's not a single letter of what we're discussing right now. Keep an eye on the key thing about health care funding. Two months ago, so if we have something that should be a strategy, which should be a view of the future, and it doesn't even say a letter inside about what's going on two months after that, and it's so important. So what are we talking about? And here's the key problem. I agree with people who have said from various HNS parties, Labourists, etc., who said the problem is that self-recovery, and this is not a resolution because if instead of 5 billion dollars given a billion, it's not a resolution, but the resolution itself is not enough if you don't take a whole series of other measures that should actually fix the situation one way or the other. Those measures are gone. We have some oral announcements, and these oral announcements are at least questionable, because, for example, the announcement that Osijek's surgery is going to be, in fact, undeveloped, and the Vukovar's is very developed, and then I don't know that it's being abolished at the Osijek Clinical Hospital Centre of Osijek Surgery, and leave it in Vukovar, so people will go there absolutely certainly you'll agree that there's not some solution and certainly it won't happen. So, what are the solutions? I don't know, but I don't see it from this law, nor do I see it from this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23694	Okay. We have two replicas. First respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so here's a fellow professor. Rainer, I agree with you when you say that two months ago when we talked about the strategy, there was no question about this in the strategy. But I can only tell you in these four amendments to the government that we received from before reading this law exactly how and when it went into the making of this law and that it couldn't have been in the strategy with which you were now waving. I'd like to pray, and I'd like to take the time to rephrase to you, to ask Mr. Deputy Minister about this article 4 as well, I don't understand. Founder required I'm hanging in there. [[/Intruder Stazic: Comrade Tyrelli, please stick to the Rules of Procedure. You've reached out to the replica.]] Comrade Reiner, when you talked about the problems that will arise, then one of the problems that arises in all this is how the founder, and in this case the government, or the same government, will submit to that same government a request for a resolution in that public institution. I hope we refuse to answer that tonight. And also one of the questions that I think you've been onto is this, this rehab manager who's going to be conducting a doctor, manager, economist. There's no word on that. Which guarantees us that this resolution manager will be successful in carrying out that recovery and that the money that we're taking out from that state budget right now, and maybe he could have been rerouted to some other position in quality and end up being spent in quality, but also with some result of all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23696	Thank you very much. Here you can see how a skilled representative and a representative like yourself can send a message to the Government in the framework of the Rules of Procedure if you want. Thank you very much for understanding. The replica will be answered by Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23697	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative. Of course the answer won't, it won't. It will not be easy because none of the key problems of Croatian health care has been solved. Therefore, that the resolution manager or manager will find himself in a situation that has a small part of the obligation to settle, a large part of the obligation will not be settled. Because absolutely nothing in the system changes, the system that says everyone has the right to everything, whenever they remember, to whatever extent they want, where they want to, etc. which, of course, is not in any country I am in the world, and in this way is promised and conceived. Then of course there will be new commitments and I say again. I have announced it, only then I am deeply concerned about what will happen, because either the fiscal responsibility law will have to be implemented or some new incredible turn will have to be invented to play that law, or to bypass that law, invent something new about that law so that it does not happen that these people who will be appointed then have to change after, say, three months. And it's gonna have to be absolutely all the way through that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23698	Now it will be replicated by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23699	Dear Mr. Reiner, I agree with you at the beginning you said and we actually repeat it from week to week that all important topics, such as science, education, health care, all those topics that concern all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of age and education, are likely to be placed in the afternoons, so that as few people as possible listen to what is said in the Parliament. And my little one also thinks that's not the case. That's how dots are arranged by chance. And secondly, you said you showed this book you held in your hand, and you objected to the current health minister that it wasn't a strategy because it was written on only four pages. Maybe you read it wrong, maybe it's a strategy, it's probably an analysis strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23700	I have to explain one thing because it's my duty, no matter what this argument may be, no one's even following. We started today with the final proposal of the Law, not with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. We had a plan planned. If we had put this dot and left the defenders at the end, then you would have objected to leaving the defenders in the afternoon. Therefore, it is impossible to do all the points while the transfer takes place. It's just impossible. And what we've been doing for this long, and look, it's our own fault because we're replicating to the infinite, so we're responding to these replicas. But I also refuse the thought that there is some evil intention at the President's table, with the President of the Parliament to put some points in this late hour. So I'm bound to say it. Well, you know what, and because of the integrity of this House and the dignity of the President of the Parliament, but also of all of us. We don't really do that. We'll hear another line. Dear Jasen Mesic called.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23701	Thank you, Vice President. I have a replica to Vice President Reiner. Well, you're fine, and I agree with you, Mr. Rainer, when you said it was weird that there was no mention of finance in the strategy, of money. And that now we have this law where in a certain way the centralization will still be carried out whether we want to admit it or not. But what is ultimately important and what would be important to those citizens if they had the opportunity to watch this transfer today would be an important quality of health care. I can testify that when I came to KBC's ambulance Rebro a while ago that I was extremely pleased with that service I got there. I had the chance to visit unfortunately and the ambulance in America, Italy, and I have to tell you that what I was a while ago on KBC Rebro, that there was nothing behind that service. That was almost two years ago. And with that in mind is what I am as a citizen and what many citizens of the Republic of Croatia are probably interested in, can we conclude from this procedure, a legal procedure to say so, whether health care services to citizens will be better or worse. Suma sumarum all health systems in both Europe and the world have problems with funding. What matters is whether for this amount of money the minister assured us which is less than what Minister Milinovic had, we will receive equal health care? It's just as impossible, Mr. Vice President, as impossible for all points to be held in the morning for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23702	The replica matches Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23703	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Mesic, of course the answer is very clear he won't. Health care will be weaker, especially hospital health care will collapse because it is very clear that with significantly less money you cannot achieve the same effects. I am very glad that you have commended Croatian health care, and I have a good opinion about it too, and I am particularly glad that you have commended the institution where I work, and that is correct. I think that Croatian health care for the resources that we allocate actually gives very much. People often don't even realize how much it is. However, it is very certain that by reducing, by drastically reducing the funds that are happening with this budget, so let's remember that the day before yesterday we discussed this 140 million is less, but when you look at particularly hospital health care, then 2.6 billion kuna is less for hospitals. For hospitals that are in big debt anyway, and we're going to give them 2.6 billion less for stationary protection next year. So who in their right mind can think everything's going to be the same and get the same favors? You won't get the same service, you'll just be looking for new culprits for it. And of course, we all know that's not going to be possible. Unfortunately, that is the truth that our citizens should be familiar with. What is the fact that it may be a little less until the collapse than the figures at first sight show exclusively at the expense of a drastic reduction in even low wages in health care professionals. This is why nurses strike because some, especially those, I talked about it the same day before yesterday, those who have 30, 35 years of work experience, and in some positions their wages will be reduced when the supplements are taken down, those famous supplements, will fight that everything will remain the same, the base will remain the same, the coefficient will remain the same, but by 2002 they did not increase the coefficient, but they tried to compensate for the fact that they so little for this difficult and serious job getting more adequate pay. Now they're gonna take it off, with 30.35-year-old nurses, the salary will be less than 30.40%. Of course it will be And after joining the EU, half of them will go out. [[Intruder Stazić: colleague Reiner.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23704	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister of Finance is about to come to us with a final address. Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23705	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for your expert debate. What do you say? Here's what I'm not going to say. I'm not going to say another law from the Ministry of Finance where we've been trying this whole year with the part where we stabilize public finances and stabilize other areas like the first reprogramme, and then the second reprogramme for the economy, so the Financial Business Act and Pre-bank settlement, and now here's the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions, which you said here should be called the Health Restitution Act. Well, here's what I could agree with, and I couldn't. Why? Okay. I agree with the prevailing, health debt prevails because as the system is the largest in that part compared to other institutions but we didn't exactly want to cover all these institutions that have financial problems. And this law is a continuous law so it's not the law to be passed by a one-time measure, but it's a continuous law and we wanted to enable some other institutions that are in trouble if they find themselves in trouble that they can appeal to this law. Here's what it was, not just health care. You've noticed well, but just as I said since the dominant role of health care is as public service to the public sector in that part, you've gained such an impression. Here I'll be just the same about your exposure as you said here by... and the Parliament to be put in this late hour, I'd like to make one actual discipline. This law allows financing, this law allows the state or the Ministry of Finance to start negotiations with banks, with those who have capital that we have a legal possibility that we can make that part possible if there are problems trying to solve these problems. So that's the law's main intensity. I agree with you absolutely agree, and I think all clubs here have also agreed with HDZ, HNS, Labourists and all those who have spoken and SDP who have said that necessary reforms are needed. And this law doesn't talk about this reform, is this not a health reform law? This is a law that allows the Ministry of Finance to enter into negotiations so that he can secure the means to talk about it, so he's not talking about health reform. And we at the Ministry of Finance agree that we can't and we'll strictly control that part where we're in charge of this reform being implemented and we won't trust me to throw the money in the well for the simple reason that we don't have it anymore. You've seen today that our credit rating agency FITCH has lowered I won't tell ratings has reduced his outlook from positive to negative. And I don't know if we all know what that means if it falls from the investment rating into the ratings below. This means that you can no longer be in debt on the financial market as we have all these years of the 22-year state that you could freely take and make... show in America and represent your country as a stable country and represent to investors to lend you money because they believe you believe that you have a stable country and that you have stable sources of income and that you will pay them back money. Whose money are the investors giving us? It's their pensioners' money, so the funds and the savings these funds have secured. If it's happening to us, and we're very close to it, I wouldn't want to have it if we had an evil, wicked prophet, but we're in a very difficult situation and the way we've been working so far, we've been doing business, and I think it's going to change drastically. You can see that it's changing everywhere, all over Europe is changing, and there are open issues and problems of the country's deficit. I told you yesterday was a bank problem, now the debt management problem of the states. That's why there's so much anxiety in the financial markets, and if we lose that credibility, we have to be honest, we're going to have a hard time getting financial resources to finance this year's deficit of 10 and 11 billion kuna, respectively. Not just that 10, 11 billion kuna shortfall, but these other sources if we get a drop in the economy. And why would I want to mention that? Because all these recoverys that you've been saying so far have been happening and they've always kind of shut down. We were all aware of each other. But the simple times in which we were then living have changed completely today, they have changed completely. The entire financial sector and countries that were in charge beyond those 60 per cent mastricular criteria were not seen before. Today, unfortunately, yes. Don't ask me why not before, today yes, it's just such a system that simply once closing these holes has been tolerated by let's say by these financial institutions themselves. Just one way to close these dubiosiss without certain reforms just piled up and we just always said ok. we'll take some credit and we'll close some debts etc., but nowadays times are certainly different. And trust me very often, and when I travel to the Council of Ministers meetings, it's no longer a very pleasant session, and honestly, I'm very scared to see how nervous they are. Now I return you to this part where we from the Ministry of Finance all the time say that we need reforms, not only in one sector, but in the whole sector, that we need reforms and what we have said reforms are necessary and in health care, and in this work that you have translated, we still need them and we need them because we no longer have money, we just don't have any. And we're trying to convince everyone that we have the credit ability to get it back. But all these years, we've been running a budget and our economy is falling. Who's filling that budget? The economy. And we're in this whole position right now, let's try to say, resuscitate the economy, focus on the economy. We went with a risky rate of health contributions down by 2 percentage points, and here it was actually heard, okay. 2% is down, we're going to put health care at risk. We in this year, only by introducing order, have charged a billion kuna more, as you have seen on budget rebalancing, not only in health, but in total on pension contributions, a billion kuna more, the introduction of order into finance. And we are aware that this is a risky move, but we said we want to put everything into the economy, because in the long term the only thing that can get us out is terrible and difficult decisions and risky decisions, but we're giving everything to the economy, because you can't have stable health care if you can't have a stable economy that fills it through health contributions and through pension contributions. You can't have it, and we've come to the point that we can't have it, that we can't have companies that can't pay no pension and health contributions. I can't, and these are now difficult changes, the difficult changes we've been making and the ones we've been pushing all year and where we're saying we can't tax our work anymore. I agree, we can no longer tax or spend. So when we look at them all the time we're doing structural reforms and we want to do them. And another means, about this part. So this part of me I wouldn't want you to get the wrong idea, this is the possibility of the Ministry of Finance going into negotiations with the financiers to actually try to secure the funds that if there are problems, and we agree that there are problems, we try to solve them. This document is not a health reform, it's not and don't look at it through that document. I agree, and that's where we support you, and we're going to look, we're going to insist from the Ministry of Finance Reform, we're looking for reforms, we want reforms, we're not going to give money because we don't have it anymore. We don't have it. We'll still be in charge this time, I don't know in a year. And that's why you believe that we are very strict and strong in these criteria to control these reforms, to maintain control. So I wouldn't want to, because I can see that there's been a lot of debate in that model today, so maybe I went this far, so let me tell you that we agree with you and that you're looking at this part of the law that we've actually introduced you to. So the possibility of funding, and this part of the reform, I hope the minister with his expert team and here is said to be the ministry that is involved in the reforms. If it comes from the KBC, the ministry proposes, the government makes decisions. So the biggest institutions of this country are involved to deal seriously with this problem, and that we are finally going into this reform, which is what everyone here has said is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23706	Thank you very much. A whole line of replicas. Darko Milinović, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I'd be even more sorry if it wasn't until noon, but not your fault, because the debate is good. I think this is one debate that should be more common with regard to the health system. You cut down 13%, but you cut it because you based the budget on an economic growth of 0.8% and then that 13% would be enough, but what I said in my statement on behalf of the club. When I said why the Ministry of Finance took responsibility for financing the health system without a clear reform of the health system. Look, I didn't make it in the last government. When I passed the Health Protection Laws, then I asked that, it seems to me, Article 23, to be clearly indicated in it, that the state budget could also be rescheduled by county institutions. It didn't pass in the government, because I knew 1.7 when we were entering the EU that we would have to resuscitate from the state budget. So, I think even now, that you've taken over as the Ministry of Finance an unnecessary burden on your back unsuccessfully I'm convinced of the law. This was to be done by Minister Ranko Ostojić, to present reforms and only one article in the Health Protection Act, it seems to me 23. Where one item should be added to the state budget to resuscitate both county institutions and present the health system reform and present how it will bring as much as the health system earns in the next year, so much spending. That's why I'm sorry it's the Ministry of Finance's law, it was supposed to be the health ministry's law, but within the Health Protection Act. And you honestly said, you're looking for a model for a health system that doesn't lack three billion kunas. That's why Minister Ranko Osojic was supposed to be here to present the reform long ago. [[Intruder: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23708	Second replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23709	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, I actually agree with a huge part of what you said, and I think everyone else, in fact, is quite certain that there is no good health care, especially not well-funded health care without a healthy economy. But the problem is in one and the other. It's been a year, and we don't have a healthy economy, and we don't have good health care, well-funded and healthy-funded health care. And I agree with you, you said you should, that you will closely observe the health reform but it is not there, it is not in any sense, it is not at all understood. There is no document in any document, no document yet has any document, no government has such document, no Parliament has such document, and probably it exists, I guess someone would know about it. And a year has passed and there's a big problem. I agree with you, I absolutely agree with what you are.../The speaker has been turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23710	Deputy Minister Linic, Boris Lalovac, answers this line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23711	Thank you very much. What you said in a year, yes, I'll look back on this part of what we're talking about the economy. When we came and we brought out the data, and that's a fact, so not wanting to charge either one or the other, that's facts, the economy data. You have 70,000 companies that have been blocked, that haven't worked, that have a big problem restructuring that. So the way we met, we're going to send them all into bankruptcy, if we're going to work somehow... When we passed the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement, you have a lot that are against it, that it's unconstitutional, that we're breaking human, I don't know what they didn't do, they're hitching it, they don't want that law to go. You know why the law passed, because of the stubbornness of the minister who passed and who said we have to do something for the economy. When did we get it? Unfortunately, it wasn't until 1.10, and I said it was my fault that it wasn't supposed to be... and there was so much resistance against that law. And you know what's going on today? Everyone comes to FINA, you know how many demands there are already, over 120 requests in a month, over 5 billion kuna requests for reprogrammes that come and there are over 5 to 10 thousand people who work in these companies and they say help us, that's a legal solution, we want to make arrangements. We talk to banks every day hard because banks don't want to give in to their claims. We're threatening and we're saying you have to go to consolidate the economy. Every day we have meetings, every morning the minister talks about individual cases, and you say we haven't done it in a year. For a year, we have been trying to fight to prove that we want reforms and that we want to change these things differently. And this law, and that's why I'm glad you supported it, too, because we actually agreed that we wanted to be all unique in this law, and that's why we've been fighting poor unfortunate problems for a year to solve the problem of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23712	Next replica, the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23713	Thank you, Vice President. Most of it, I agree completely with you. It's a very difficult situation when we talk about the financial situation and you're here to point out that we don't have practical money, but when we don't have money on something that we've warned that reducing the rate by 2% for healthcare will have negative effects, we're experiencing it in this way today. On the one hand, there was an excuse that those 2% would unload the economy, nothing positive happened in that year. Next, you're saying our ratings are falling financially. Fitch has now negatively reduced that part of the rating, and in part you're saying that through this law he will be able to repay this part of the hospital's loss. Now, at what cost we'll go into debt, whether it's going to be a higher price than the price that we've left 2% and that we've made and gone into serious reforms that should have continued in health care. It's part of the thinking, and here I think it was the very wrong policy of this government and I agree with everyone when we talk about health care because health care is in a very difficult situation, that here Minister Ostojić should have been in front of health, to hear this debate, to feel this climate, but I think the public should have heard more about it because I'm afraid that our health care is in a very difficult situation and we're going to pay the same very high price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23714	Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac is responding to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23715	Thank you, Vice President. Just briefly related to this part of what you said was that the wrong policy is related to reducing the contribution to health care. I'm surprised you're from the Work Party where we're saying we need to be competitive, that's what we're saying is that we're too high in the labour price and we're just saying that we're not going to be competitive in this part of it, the gross part is not going to go up for the worker himself, but there's a redundancy for the economy to be able to increase the worker. If you're a Labour Party, I think you should support it that the worker has a higher salary, to disburse the company. We say we'll introduce... No, no, no, I just, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I say we introduce a real estate tax because it's for those who have richer. You disagree, you disagree with the introduction of real estate taxes to relieve work and transfer to property. You don't agree with that because you're a working party. We say that, we want more competitive work, we want jobs in Croatia, and you can have jobs if you are competitive. We all say we need to be competitive, come a stranger, have a competition that can actually open jobs or we're expensive. Not as a salary through a net salary, but through a gross salary, we're expensive. That's what we're talking about, it's a reform, and we're saying that this reform needs to be transferred to property, that those who have a little more to participate, not that worker who has 3,000 kunas. That's what we're talking about, these reforms. If those aren't reforms for you, then I just don't know how to explain it any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23716	The next replica of the respected Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23717	Thank you. I just wanted to say that with a great deal of your debate, I absolutely agree and I think you've spoken as sincerely as you could from your heart. But then one part of the budget doesn't quite work out for you, that's what I tried to do for you in the budget debate. Do you know how many people work in the publishing industry in Croatia? 12,000. And you hold them and reduce their means. Do you know how many companies and companies work and licensed by the Ministry of Culture for the Reconstruction of Cultural Goods? Three hundred with over 1,000 employees, and you're reducing their resources. And then you're surprised you don't have any growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23718	Deputy Lalovec responds to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23719	Well, we're all powerful, we reduce everything, whoever we reach, we're the most powerful in the country. But I wouldn't agree with you that much, because that's the government budget of the Republic of Croatia. This is the budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I ask that we be clear and transparent in this part. But again, I said here yesterday about VAT. 1% of VAT is 2 billion kuna, 10 billion we have interest. Could we cut from 23 to 18? Could we have money for this part of the culture that we are? I agree it should be given, but you know that the next year when we enter the EU if it comes and we break the 3% deficit rule we enter... We are entering the EU next year, and you know what responsibility I am. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] That's why I told you I was afraid to come to the EU next year and I'm not so scared of the rating agency anymore, but next year when I get in what I say to them, what I offer them. That's what this is about. I tell you all the time that our budget is growing and everybody's a little bit, everybody's unhappy, but the economy can't fill that part of the budget. He can't, he won't. That's what we're talking about. None of our ministers are satisfied with this budget, none of us are satisfied. But make sure that with 130 billion kuna rational management, there's a lot that can be achieved and we're looking for it. We are looking for reforms in every area for reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23720	Next replica of Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23721	Thank you. Here I'd like to say that I'm... Obviously necessary for the means. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you should see at least as far as the hospital in Pula is concerned, that the debt that has arisen has not arisen because it may have been wasted without purpose because a large part of the services has been recognised by the HZZ as justified, however it is beyond the limit. You just don't get the funds. In some ways, it turns out that a region that works relatively well under these conditions cannot manage its hospital. I believe, however, that during this law, the part relating to the fact that, therefore, the council to be appointed by the Ministry of Rehabilitation of the hospital will still have to be brought into line with the local self-government. In fact, decentralisation is one of the most important concepts to be avoided because of a health debt or because of someone else. She's much more important than that and that's why I think in this proposal you should see, that except for what, so the county is about a hospital in Pula that is at that level giving and if you ask for at all... In fact, it will only be run for those who seek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about those who are in debt and do not seek? At least that's how the law follows. So, if they are looking for and giving it, I think the government and the ministry should see that in such a one-man council that manages the issue of whether or not the people of the local community lasts two years. Because we think we know how to manage money relatively well, and it's not exactly our fault that this hospital came to that level. ... It's a very important thing, and every law that's done here goes less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can talk about 12 billion leaving Istria, one billion returning. Therefore, the 100 million debt generated by the hospital is even 10%, i.e. 1% of what's gone from Istria. So, I'd like to ask you to resuscitate, but consider decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23722	Wait a minute. This is Deputy Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23723	Excuse me. Thank you. Here's a little bit. I agree and that's what I said yesterday in the debate when we talked about decentralisation that unfortunately it's all too late in us, all too late. Here's simple, and we've found ourselves in these problems that after 20 years we're just talking about decentralisation, just now we're talking about decentralisation. I believe that those who actually led that they should give an answer why decentralisation didn't come in time and we told you that we would support you and that we were pushing in that part that decentralisation must live and in this part that the only and the right path we're doing, and I'm saying that some colleagues don't agree to lower the labour price, introduce property into function and release decentralisation, release decentralisation at local level. This is our reform that we are carrying out and that we are clearly talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23724	And the last replica, respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't understand now, does this law where it says that the founder gives up all of his rights we're carrying out that decentralisation that you just said, here a few seconds ago or we're doing centralised again, which is not good. Because because of the debt, here's what my colleague Boluncic was saying now, the management rights of the owner of these hospitals are being taken away. Pula General Hospital pays the loan the county raised, or pays decentralised funds, so it does not pay centrally for, in order to settle, the debt of the same hospital. So there's a problem somewhere. And so far, some counties have succeeded, and I'm not going to say everything successfully self-financed through bank responsibilities. Therefore, you can't say that this law is so that the state can negotiate with banks, that all debts, all hospitals, will be resolved. As far as labor prices are concerned, populism is not really an in anymore. It's been a while now, so we don't need to talk about it, and maybe you have information, and I'd like you to tell me at the expense of 2% reduction in health insurance contributions, how many workers have been paid more, and how much the worker's net salary, or what he's got on his hands, has grown when we talk about a reduction in contributions. And as for the property tax, do we go on property tax or do we go on real estate tax? We don't know yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23726	Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovec is responding.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23727	Thank you very much. If I said property tax, I apologize, but what was published on the Ministry of Finance's website is often about real estate tax. I'm sorry you don't understand gross and net pay. It is not regrettable and what I have told you is a reduction in the gross labour price unfortunately will not result in an increase in the net, but it allows the employer to keep that job in such conditions, keep the job. Okay, about this part of the populism that you're talking about, I won't because I'm not going to replicate it in that part because we think that from the part where we talked about reforms that we're clearly talking about, we clearly present them. So in that part we're working actively. And about whether this law leads to centralization, so I don't know how else to implement a recovery where you give clear instructions that after the resolution you will return to the founder of his establishment, you will return it. And in this part of it I really don't understand you don't have a different way of doing centralised especially when you allow a better negotiating position to be agreed on in debt payments. I don't know if there's any further economic need to explain it, but a better economic position not to go even further into the debate, but trust us that this is all we're doing, we're doing it meaningfully, and we're doing it with a bill to keep our finances under control.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23728	The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions come to pass, and they'll get it tomorrow by all accounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23729	Final proposal of the Law on recovery of public institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No.201. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted amendments within the deadlines which become an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Laburists. I'm asking the government's representative to come forward with the amendments. First Legislative Committee, Amendment No. 1 in Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23730	An amendment to Article 4 shall not be accepted in relation to paragraph 4 as the Government has proposed an amendment to that article in relation to paragraph 4 which has been adopted by the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives in a more no-technically appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23731	What does the board president say?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23732	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23733	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 2. of Article 7 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23734	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23735	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment No 3. in Article 8(1), the following paragraph is added:
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23736	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23737	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. Article 10(4)
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23738	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23739	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. We are now going to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers-Party of Work Amendment No. Article 3
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23740	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment cannot be accepted for the reasons why these issues are governed by specific regulations according to which public institutions otherwise operate, for example the Law on Institutions if we talk about health care institutions of the Health Protection Act, which is established for example. in Article 47, the founder of a health institution is obliged to ask the Ministry to assess the consent of the acts establishing the law defining the rights and obligations of that other provision on the management of the founders in respect of the performance of the activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23741	I'd like a representative of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23742	Your Honor, Your Honor. I'm not happy with the answer exactly from your interpretation of it. The rights and obligations of the founders of institutions and hospitals are essentially taken away by not accepting these amendments. So with that intention, we have also submitted an amendment to ensure that these founding rights are maintained regardless of what we are talking about in the recovery process. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23743	Now we're going to make a statement. Please state who's in favour of Amendment No. 1. A Croatian Labour Representative's Club that the government doesn't accept? Thank you. I'm confirming he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. Article 4 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23744	The amendment is not accepted either, the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23745	I'd like a representative of the Croatian Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23746	That dissatisfaction is the same since the argument is the same and here is by not accepting these two amendments you have just confirmed that yesterday in the debate on this agenda point we were right when we warned that this was not only a law on the rehabilitation of public institutions but that there is a great possibility that you are behind this law the availability of health services to citizens as such and I think that we are on a good track of thought, and time will show that we were really right and that the citizens of that hospital they now have in their county will unfortunately not have the way they have them now. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23747	Please state who's in favour of Amendment No. 2. A Croatian Labour Representative's Club that the government doesn't accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 81 votes for 36 against and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23748	Now we've got two points left to do tonight, so let's move on to the first of them. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 204. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. ... Can I have your attention? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Culture Prof. Berislav Šipush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23749	Mr. Vice President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, dear MPs and MPs. In short lines, something about the law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. This proposal will regulate or settle the following issues, so a certain period of time will be extended to which concessions are given on cultural goods from 30 to 50 years, the possibility of the length of the duration of the concession being determined by the provisions of the business regulation... where a concession under this law is granted for the purpose of implementing a specific project or investor programme for which the concession is granted and under the provisions of a specific regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remind you of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, which provides for the duration of concessions up to 99 years. Furthermore, the content of the concession will be defined so as to determine that the concession on cultural goods includes the right to build and the right to serve where necessary for the implementation of a specific project in accordance with the Treaty on concession. In the interest of investors, the situation will also be resolved when a concession procedure, the establishment of a right of construction or service has already been initiated and, in the meantime, the property of a cultural good archaeological site has been identified. in such a way that it is no longer necessary to implement the concession procedure under the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the procedure for granting certain rights may be initiated earlier, provided that the concessionary holder of the right of construction or the authorisation of the right of service accepts the conditions of protection and preservation of cultural goods established by the competent authority and, of course, agrees with those conditions for the protection of cultural goods. It is further determined that the concession procedure for the protection and preservation of cultural goods for the cultural good on the maritime good is determined by the Conservatory Department of the Ministry of Culture, as the procedure is carried out by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. So they themselves proposed this supplement along with the Law Office. Here, a small crackdown on the setting of conditions for protection and preservation of cultural goods, the Ministry of Culture, when setting out the text of the final proposal for a new law, i.e. these amendments and additions to the Law on concessions, has proposed that for real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia a single concession provider, for example. The Agency for the Management of State Property, where the Ministry of Culture would only provide conditions for the protection and preservation of cultural goods. This would therefore avoid a lot of problems related to this partial concession, but this proposal was not accepted by the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, let us recall that these amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods will regulate exports and the delivery of cultural goods from the Republic of Croatia, bearing in mind that by entering the EU, under the notion of bringing out cultural goods from our country, they will be considered to be being exported to other EU member states while, under the notion of exporting cultural goods, their exports to third countries outside the customs territory of the EU will be considered. In both cases, authorisation will be granted for the purpose of ensuring the protection and return of cultural goods to the Republic of Croatia. In this way we will prevent a lasting outflow of national treasure, cultural historical, or archaeological values from the Republic of Croatia. A further strict ban on permanent exportation of cultural goods and of preventively protected goods from the Republic of Croatia shall be laid down, but temporary exports and exports from the Republic of Croatia shall be permitted, in the interests of exposure, expertise, the performance of works to protect cultural goods or other legitimate reasons but with the approval of the competent authority. This mode of transport is already prescribed by the Regulation on conditions for granting export authorisation, the delivery of cultural goods from the Republic of Croatia, and for this purpose it is laid down by law that cultural goods and all preventive protected goods in accordance with this law represent the national treasure of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the law of the Republic of Croatia will be laid down to request the return of cultural goods illegally taken from its territory to the territory of the EU Member State referred to in Article 70 of the Law. The Ministry of Culture is responsible for implementing the coordination of all activities with the return of cultural goods and this right of the Republic of Croatia is implemented after the entry into the EU in accordance with the Directive of 15 March 1993 on the return of cultural objects illegally taken from the territory of a Member State which has been amended by Directive of 17 February 1997 EU Parliament and Council of Europe and by the EU Parliament and Council of Europe Directive once again amending 5 June 2001. The obligation of the Ministry of Culture is also regulated when an EU Member State is seeking the return of illegally carried out cultural goods located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the laws contained in the Annex to the first Council Regulation of 18 December 2008 on the export of cultural goods having a direct effect in the EU Member States shall be deleted so that its provisions are not to be adopted in national legislation. And lastly, in the context of these amendments and additions, I remind you that the period of validity of the provisions of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, which for 2012 is reduced by the number of natural and legal persons liable to pay the monumental rent. In this way and now this time by 31 December 2013, this way we will disburse a number of entrepreneurs from economic operators the obligation to pay the monumental rent in the following year. We propose the adoption of an emergency law for reasons of urgency I would say A to coordinate the duration of the concession with the duration of concessions prescribed by other legislation for the smooth implementation of the project, which was one of the reasons, but certainly because of the fact that it is also a matter of harmonisation with the acquiss of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23750	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Jasen Mesic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's really gonna try to be as short as possible. First something about a monumental rent. With this move we broke 50 million kunas out of the hands of the state making local self-governments that would otherwise be invested directly by companies. I'm sorry there's no colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. I didn't notice that no coffee on Stradun was cheap this summer because we reduced the monumental rent. You can imagine. I think it's a mistake and it's going to cost us in the future. But that's what it's all about. I think it is quite right that the legislator suggested that these amendments and additions should be made by an emergency procedure related to the part relating to the exportation or return of cultural goods. That part stands absolutely and that it is a compliance with the directive and I think it is completely justified and that we can support that part absolutely without a score. However, there is also a large part of the law that did not have to go in my opinion by emergency procedure and was inserted to say it further. This applies naturally to concessions. We agree that here the deadline for the concession of cultural goods extends from 30 to 50 years. I do not think that this will attract private concessionaries to the most extent to take a particular cultural good in the concession, but it will mainly be about individual cultural goods are very rare those or rural or urban units which as a whole can be given that they are owned by the state to have clean property so that you can offer them to concessionaries to take them in the long-term concession almost not having them in Croatia. But at this point, it's worrying that there's not one single cultural good we can offer the concessionaries, not 30 or 50 or 90 years. Because for no cultural good, there is no prepared documentation which I do not consider to be responsible for either the minister or her deputy, but I consider the responsibility of a resolute assistant who has been taping on the site for a year. Why do I say that? Because almost two years ago we brought a unanimous strategy for the economic use of cultural heritage where these steps are precisely prescribed. Therefore, an electronic register of cultural goods, which was the first step in realising the strategy, was completed by the end of 2011, presented at the very beginning of the new government's mandate and should have followed the second step. To determine the priorities of cultural goods and to tell potential investors what cultural good they are laughing at. Is that the first question of every investor? He's asking if he can turn this chicken into a restaurant, if he can turn this chicken into a boarding house, if he can make an annex for it to have some wellness or some sauna or if it's so valuable that he can't do anything about it. Concessions are the future and Croatia has both the luck and the problem that it is so rich in cultural heritage and simply has to look for funding models. What is not to happen to us is not to happen to us and this voice is spreading terribly quickly that when we discuss the concession, it is to happen to us that someone stops the whole competition is to declare part of it a cultural good. This is either poorly prepared for the conclusion of a concession contract or simply for the people responsible for it and signed it, they do not behave responsibly enough. What the strategy also prescribed, which does not follow the proposed budget for this year, is to prepare in each county one or two facilities that can document being prepared and give concessions to take over. It's called management and economic sustainable use of cultural heritage. And so we must turn to the Ministry of Culture, when I say, forgive me, I've worked there for a long time, so I got engaged, but also my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. If you have items in the budget that are only pure consumption and they don't change, and at the same time you cut the items that are invested, then that's not economic thinking about culture. I don't know how many colleagues in the Ministry of Finance will ever understand me but sooner or later they will face the fact that what I keep saying, that in the EU 5% of the employees are working in the cultural sector. And these industries are growing all the time, they're growing, no matter what the crisis. If publishing isn't an economy, I'm sorry, I don't know what it is. 12 thousand people work in the publishing sector. Now I've expanded the subject a little bit. Furthermore, on the issue of the illegal delivery of cultural goods, and the return in accordance with the UNESCO Convention Abautilllicite trafficking or illicit trade. You know why we lost Seus' treasure? Because we could not prove in court the archaeological documentation that this treasure was excavated in Croatia. We didn't have that file. And we in the new budget predict for the entire archaeological research of the Republic of Croatia million kuna. Two-thirds less than last year. Now I'm going to tell you one more thing. Recently, a bronze statue head was sold at a public auction in America. That chronologically completely corresponds to the Apoxyomone found at the Eagle, at Losinj's. One of the perjanica, thank God, exhibitions of Croatian culture, large manifestations of Croatian culture in Paris, which is carried out by the Ministry of Culture and I congratulate you on that. Do you know, probably not, but that's a specific piece of information, but I just want to tell you something. No bronze ancient statue anywhere in the world has been found in one place but has always been found at least two to four. We tried until the head at the auction ended up being sold by a fisherman from the Italian city of Fana because it was stuck in his net. And interestingly, we can't prove where she was found today, because we just didn't have the money to investigate those parts. And there's no factor in that court and that service that will restore your cultural well-being from London and Paris or Rome if you don't have such an elaborate documentation, you can forget it. Look at the catalogues of auctions in Vienna, Munich, you have the origin of ex Yugoslavia. In particular, this refers to archaeological heritage because it is most difficult to document. We've even been dealing with the thought of banning the import of metal detectors for a while. All of you who are on the ground in the Republic of Croatia know about this kind of private entrepreneurship, metal detector. I can tell you the city of Sisak, Vinkovci who have such continuity where there are people who do it. Then we lifted that compensation for an honest finder. He showed up to you on the purchase of cultural goods in a museum an honest finder, so he tells you how much you found it, then 498. And he found them all by accident. If it goes out, if you don't have the insurance funds for the paperwork and you haven't translated them, which isn't a job of a second, from the day, from the mandate, it's a permanent job, you won't be able to get it back. If you don't have the paperwork ready for the concession when the investor comes and knows what with the cultural good he can and he clearly writes it to him, you won't give it to the concession, no way. And what is totally inadmissible is that the same person in the ministry is responsible for that part of the government's general policy that this year we want to get away with state funds contracts of nearly 60 million kunas of secured funds held on the table for 6 months together with that same strategy. I'm saying this because we care about it, we care. If I'm conservative in anything in my life, I'm conservative in cultural heritage. I'll be back for a little memorial rent. From the monumental rent, let us take the city of Dubrovnik for example, it should not have been reduced, but should have been increased, the part that goes to the local environment, the local environment to get the opportunity to get out of it, allow it to invest in locals and offer them to traditional Dubrovnik craftsmen. So on Stradun, if you'll excuse the expression, we're not buying gins from all over the world, we're buying jeans, oil, olives and all that life meant in that city, and I could name them for everyone in Croatia right now. And then it's to preserve what we call a cultural identity and what we have through an immaterial cultural heritage, that in these walls, in these urban areas, in these monuments life survives, and not that in the perspective, we're going to have scenes. What I want to object to, however, about these amendments and additions, I am not sure that these solutions that have been proposed to prevent this case that happened to us in the Katarina Monuments area of Brijuni Riviera, I am not sure that the proposed solutions in practice will be able to function. Therefore, the conditions for the protection of the conservation of cultural goods and the way in which it is implemented for cultural good on the maritime good are laid down by the principle body prior to the publication of the notice of the intention to grant concessions on the maritime good in accordance with the law governing maritime well-being. One sentence. I don't know how the Ministry of Culture will know that, say, the County of Dubrovnik-Neretva intends to give a concession on the maritime good in the bay I don't know which one for the little harbor because there's no written notice that they're obliged to do so. How to determine the conditions and the way..., here in practice I see the problem. In terms of how I understand the desire of the promoter of these changes and of the supplement to solve it, I understand that but I'm not sure that this will actually work at all. I especially don't understand how it's going to work with the so-called. concessions issued by the ministry, let's say those ministries that are responsible for protecting the area of natural heritage. It was kind of feasible at the Ministry of Culture, and then we struggled with it when national parks and nature parks were in the same vault as the Ministry of Culture. Today you can be told that the concessional approval of a certain area of the sea, the Mljet National Park is issued by the Ministry, and that at the same time in that space you have five submerged ships, and that the Ministry of Culture almost has no idea because it doesn't have to ask him formally and legally, and the question is how will he know? In that sense, and now I'm going back to the beginning, it might be better if we went with an emergency procedure related to what is necessary for the directive, and given the examples in practice and given the very poor conduct of the Department of Cultural Heritage Protection at the Ministry of Culture, and this is no longer a initial discrepancy than something else, it might be better if we went with this in two readings, waiting for the announced thematic session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and we found a common solution because I believe that we are all in the best interest. Nevertheless, I believe that the HDZ Club will support these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23752	Thank you, Your Honor. It is now the turn of the SDP club of Croatia and the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23753	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. Well, we'll all agree, it's a little bit of us here, but we do know that we live in a country of great wealth of zero category monuments, also with an enviable number of immaterial cultural phenomena that are on UNESCO's list of world immaterial heritage. And just as such, this law is very important to us, that is, always the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods and every amendment and supplementation. Just like the way we can offer in Croatia, we are actually a great potential for cultural tourism. However, when we talk about this, we must always be aware of the importance of proper management or exploitation. We need to be aware of the need to protect our heritage, we need to find some balance in all of this, and it's very important to think about it all in planning development. The fundamental intensity of the amendments to the law is in fact the harmonisation with European legislation, but also better articulation of the status and position of the cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I support the proposal to amend and supplement the Cultural Goods Act for two basic reasons. The proposed amendments further contribute to the affirmation of the role and importance of the cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia and underline their position as promoters of the Croatian cultural and national identity. Cultural goods are our national treasures that we must protect and preserve on the one hand, and on the other hand we must gently share with others in a way that represents our culture beyond Croatian borders. Here's a colleague earlier mentioned our Apoxiom who is now at an exhibition in Paris. In this respect, the proposal for amending and supplementing this law adopts the necessary regulatory framework as to how, who and under what conditions cultural goods may cross our borders in fact. The proposed amendments and additions also regulate concessions on cultural well-being by opening up space for the economic use of cultural heritage i.e. to make more effective use of the conservation and sustainable economic use of cultural heritage that has already been brought by the Ministry of Culture in the past term. When we talk about the economic use of cultural goods, we need to be very careful and very careful about the fact that cultural goods are primarily good for the public, and only then is it from commercial and we must always be aware of that. As deputy mayor of Dubrovnik, I am well aware of the problem of public and private use of cultural heritage, i.e. I hold from such a position that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law will, in fact, bring the necessary improvements in this area, which makes me repeat the backbone of Croatian national identity. So by passing the proposed law, we saw that we were going to extend a certain time that was actually given for a concession on cultural goods from 30 to 50 years. Then, for the purpose of the permanent prevention of a permanent outflow of cultural heritage, exports are arranged and Mr. Deputy Minister mentioned what is meant, which is actually the exportation of entry into the EU, that this is the export to other EU member states, and that exports are actually exports to third countries outside the customs territory of the EU. In these two cases, approval will be granted for the purpose of ensuring of course protection, as well as the return of cultural goods to the Republic of Croatia, with the fact that I agree with this problem that my colleague Mesic has stated that there is, of course, longer preparation, that we should also prepare for investments, as well as for what was said earlier. The ban on permanent exports is also laid down, temporary exports are allowed, and this is due to the above-mentioned exposure of the expert on the performance of protection works, etc. etc. It is also arranged to seek the return of cultural goods that have been illegally exported from the territory, from our territory. The period of validity of the provision is extended which reduces the number of obligors of payment of the monumental rent. He mentioned himself just before, and I agree with what you said. However, we had to, these were measures to relieve the economy, and I can also say that we can also introduce some other rents. I'll bring up an ambience rent here. I don't know what to call her, and that's when you look at the cable car in Dubrovnik with which the view is divine, the view of the pearl of Old Town. Of course the visitors wouldn't come if they were in second place. So it's the same without any rent. We should think about that, too. This proposal also provides for infringements and fines for a person returning cultural well-being to the country after the expiry of the period set out in the approval. Because unfortunately, we are all witnessing in our midst a variety of cultural devastations from upgrades, from the use of different materials that are banned, illicit construction procedures etc. But I'm also glad that there's already been one final sentence of imprisonment due to the devastion of the cultural treasure. I hope there will be more changes and additions or maybe a new law, the Cultural Good Act because there is, I think there are more dead parts that aren't regulated. This is an emergency change. We can definitely conclude that we are a great cultural and natural potential. Heritage is an inheritance. We got it, we live it today, we have to keep it, we have to leave it to others tomorrow. By the number of immaterial cultural goods we are the first in Europe, yes, and almost in the world I think China, Korea. So we're fourth in the world. Therefore, it is our duty to maintain balance. It's not the point of keeping it in dusty... the state, rather than preserve it for the future, and at the same time enjoy it through revitalization and functional use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. I support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23754	Thank you, too. Next is the Croatian People's Party club and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23755	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues at this hour. We'll be brief. A colleague gives me a signal to stop at as short a time as possible. Here I come from the city that without a complex by the foundation of cultural goods can also stand next to the city of Dubrovnik so that my colleague Šimac-Bonačić may not have been found injured. And just like her, I am one of the deputy mayors of Sibenik, and clearly within the scope of my work, I come very often in contact with this problem, the problem of managing cultural goods, the preservation of cultural goods. It's not very common for me, but perhaps you could even agree with Mr. Mesic when it comes to the monumental rent, in principle, not entering the techniques, but I believe it's not time to cut the funds that should be allocated to cultural monuments. Because if we had them in Sibenik and 50 times as many at the level of the year, we would have them believe in what we spend, and it would be very good for the national interest of future generations and what we leave for them. It's also an inheritance as my colleague before me apostrophe. But since it's a late hour and sleeps quietly already a little town I'll look back on the scale of this law's affairs. This law, as you can see from the proposal, actually touches three important things. One thing is to synchronise the rules regarding concessioning in the maritime good and concessioning of cultural goods, the problem is real. It really exists in the area of Sibenik, one of the most valuable fortification facilities in the fortress of St. Nicole of 1546 is actually a charm in heaven or on earth, because no one knows what's before, is it rather a maritime good, is it a cultural monument? It's something that's not rare on the Adriatic. The remains of former civilizations are there, they are all in turn the cultural treasure of the Republic of Croatia and even the cultural treasure of the world level. And we should simplify and make it as clear as possible to make regulations that regulate obligations and powers in the management of cultural goods. This correction goes in the direction of monitoring some real situations that life imposes on us and therefore we absolutely support it. In the second part, there is also something that is ultimately in line with the EU acquis, and in fact it is about establishing a legal reciprocity between Croatia and the EU countries on the right to request the return of alienated cultural goods from the Republic of Croatia because such rules, the same rights are given by EU member states. It is also prescribed that cultural good is a national treasure which additionally puts responsibility on a complete society to care culturally well-being as it should. In any case, we consider these amendments to the law by the Ministry of Culture to make us more efficient in implementing and operating existing positive regulations so far passed in the Republic of Croatia, to make us more efficient, more operational in a very important task to preserve what we didn't actually inherit from our grandfathers. And now I'm going to try to turn it around, but we borrowed it as a fortune from future generations. We owe it to them in proper condition with the duty of good lords. The HNS club will support this bill, we'll vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23756	Thank you, too. We have a replica on display. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23757	Thank you, Mr. President. Just here I agree with Mr. Baranovic about the fortress of St. Nicole, a classic example, a phenomenal fortress that triangleed beautiful at the entrance to Sibenik, Austro-Hungarian, was an interested concessionist. The authorities couldn't decide at the time, it was a while ago, in which way they allowed the connection of the fortress of St. Nikol with land. Because there was a problem getting to St. John's. Nikola. The concessionary suggested that the bridge be a small bridge to be a dry link over one piece and it was ultimately not approved. And that's why the concessionaire's interest fell. That's why I was saying how important it was, getting the paperwork ready for such options. And then there was the question, another concessionary came and it wasn't because then even the local community didn't agree because he was an interested concessionist who wanted to build a casino there. The local administration felt that this was not an appropriate purpose. There were then two years ago amendments to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods which said that the service should not interfere directly with this purpose but simply give insight into what must or should not be touched into monuments. A classic example of what happened because of the monument's unpreparedness and otherwise fantastic potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23758	Replica response, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23759	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And then a few years later, a set comes into the town of Sibenik, a little bit of a break in the closets of the conservatives in Sibenik and finds a project that solves the issue of land-connection bridge with the fortress and pasarella to the main entrance. So, unfortunately, the service and in your mandate did not have great insight into what they had at their disposal and what was long ago envisaged in the attempts to reconstruct, or rebuild that monument and place it in the function of cultural tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23760	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, respected representative Ljiljana Cvetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23761	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Deputy Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods is therefore a harmonisation with European legislation and therefore fully follows what the guidelines of the European Parliament and of the Council provide for is a guideline of UNESCO. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that the state protects scientific, cultural and artistic goods as spiritual folk values. It is therefore good that the bill, stressing its concern for these values, determines that cultural goods and preventively protected goods are national goods in accordance with this law. This ensures the application of a special regime in relation to the transport of cultural goods. Article 3 extends the purpose of the protection of cultural goods by introducing, apart from the delivery and import of cultural goods, export control and the introduction of cultural goods for which we hold goods. This law does not fully cover the problem of procedures for fixed cultural goods. The EU does not accept the creation of groups that are not subject to the free market, which is one of the EU's basic postulates. Currently, in order for a designer of any profession to work on cultural goods to have special authority, which is simply not according to the EU acquis. If a construction engineer or architect has completed a university which the Republic of Croatia recognises and passed an expert exam, there is no longer any reason to issue another authorisation in the chamber. The Republic of Croatia would be the only member within the EU to have such conditions. If it stays that way, it will be safe to press charges as soon as we join the EU. The proposed law prescribes the right of the Republic of Croatia to request the return of cultural goods illegally transferred from its territory to the territory of the EU Member States referred to in Article 70a of this Act. The Ministry of Culture is responsible for the coordination of all activities related to the return of cultural goods, and this right of the Republic of Croatia is realised after EU accession. But what will happen to the return of cultural goods illegally taken from the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the area of non-EU countries? It is likely that the proposed amendments and additions to the law will aim to bring the art market into line with European legislation. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the HSU will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23762	Thank you very much to the HSUA club and the esteemed representative Ljiljana Cvetovic. And now I call upon the esteemed representative Zlatko Komadin, who is not in the hall, to lose the right to debate on this subject. Dear Representative Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23763	Thank you, Mr. President. So in this debate, I would refer to this first part that was laid out in this Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods. Namely, first of all, for the protection of fixed goods. Unfortunately, given the state of the economy and the resources that the ministry has, most of the immovable cultural goods have been condemned to fail or to act on the teeth of time, and I believe that one possible way to help preserve these goods is to make it available not only for future generations of what I am talking about but also for the current generation to put into economic function. The economic function is not only needed to put such goods into function and preserve themselves, but not all cultural goods of the zero category that attracts people to come to see only because of them. Many of these, let's say, specifically with us in Pula from Austria, different barracks people next to them would go undetected or draw graphs, but if they were put into office then people would come to see it. There might be a library or something. I would like to point out that economic activity, so here I can pull the parallel, let's say, not cultural goods, but in some way conservation and natural diversity, but the Boškarin so the Istrian cattle would almost be gone if it hadn't started now in Istria to grow for the food industry so I don't say gastronomic purposes. In this section here, which states what the Deputy Minister said, I see that one of the ideas is that the award of concessions is, in some way, being removed from the Ministry which was rigorous in these conditions of use as regards years and conditions and that it is more directed towards one economic giving. We in Istria especially in Pula have a Brijuni Riviera project that has been present for a long time for 10 years, and the idea was that from one area that for many years not to say centuries in Pula was under military control and as such was not available to the city authorities recently, which meant that it was preserved from devastation, the idea was to develop tourism in the area. In such an action in the county is one contest for... Catherine, and there is now a discrepancy that has arisen. In the course of the competition alone, it was declared a cultural good, and it's still... because it's part of the maritime good, and part of it is on the coast. The investor who responded to the competition today, so when we talk not now about culture but about the budget to have an investor who is preparing to invest funds, jobs, and also in a way that... therefore safeguards and protects the environment is not very easy to find. So at a time like this, I see that the situation when something is declared culturally good is, of course, the columns change the basic settings. I think that the Ministry of Culture has done well in this proposal that the right of construction can be introduced into concessions, and I also think that it is well stated that if, at the moment the award of the concession was started, a place is determined by cultural well-being that then the concession competition goes further on those conditions that were from the competition, and of course no one disputes that this culturally well-preserved and revitalised i.e. to get the conservator's terms. But as the cadastral particles are different I've made a proposal that I don't think the ministry has considered, although I think it would have any reason to think about it, one part of that area is part of a fortress that doesn't get into that area as such, but a particle that it's so large that part of the particle enters that area, and it's culturally well declared before. It was never thought that this firmer would go into the process but now that one part of that particle covered by the competition turned out not to be able to continue the concession process but rather to be distributed or otherwise. But the process is whether or not it's being pitched is not that simple. A permit should be granted, and the permit should be subject to the conditions of the ministry and it is our proposal to add in this article another item which would say that in the event that a culturally well-proclaimed or before the concession procedure has begun, and in part enters a major part of a project that, in this case, the ministry. it can be given under the conditions of concessions which are as for those who have acquired cultural goods in the course of giving, therefore, these concessions themselves. I think that, in one possible future law, what the Deputy Minister said, so the concession procedure if we talk about major economic procedures, we in Istria take a lot of care of it, we contribute with about 30% of tourism and therefore cultural goods from Rome through the Mleteks to Austria are very important, people come and we care about them, so other than those cultural goods that are really directly under the Ministry. If it's a building where someone thinks to open a library or something. However, I have the impression that the ministry for these big procedures simply doesn't have enough people, it doesn't have enough people and it doesn't have all the logistics behind it that should do it. So if not in this law, so the changes then in the future law I think the ministry should go to that part that when certain cultural goods are in the process of a larger project, it is simply being restricted, to say what can be done with this cultural good and in what way it implements the whole concession procedure, etc. And in this case, I would ask them to reconsider, so that one big project is not blocked because it may be dealt with, but a few kilometers away there is a hydro base where we have, parts of the age... the hydrobase are hydroplanes, but the particle also includes the forest behind. Now if there's something going on in that forest, then it's culturally good, so we should still do the pitching. So I'm asking the Ministry to reconsider this amendment that would not have the consequences as you have stated, because it's easy to say that a new law should come soon, and that amendment would allow no greater problems to be realised by a Brijuni Riviera project that basically protects the coast of Pula because if it hadn't been for that project, parts of that land would have been based on the debts of the MORH and the others were given to different companies and we would have only had one mess of source style, etc. So I am for the protection of cultural goods, but the Ministry of Culture, therefore, is more limited to that cultural aspect of protection, and not the economic aspect, which I think is too much to require for a small number of people doing so. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23764	Thank you, too. And finally, the respected Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr Berislav Shipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23765	Here's a few sentences I hope for the end. So in any case, in general, by looking at this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, it was made possible, first of all, to enable the deblockation of certain investment projects that have either appeared, or to be launched in the recent past, let's say so, and which have come into its realization to a certain point at which they say they are stuck. Not now about the details, not the projects or the blockades. In any case, some of these blockades are also the result of the procedures of the competent conservatory departments of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia which have acted under the laws and rules of the game so far. We hope that these changes and additions will allow the current situations to be unblocked and that existing projects that are at some stage to say high preparations and go towards realisation can be further launched. So it was one of the first intensities of changes and additions and, of course, to comply with the legal gains of the EU, but of course, I will answer Mrs. Šimac-Bonačić as other colleagues and fellow representatives that there is a very firm intention in the Ministry of Culture to continue working on the amendments to the current law or work and on the new law, is about protecting cultural goods. In any case, it is already in the process of harmonising the membership of a future working group, several ministries that would work on the new law, there is also the Ministry of Culture, of course there is the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and we will have to include the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, so crucially I would say the resolutions, which all together will have to seek some harmonisation at that level of the law in order to further enable a certain application that will give the economy one swing. As for the concessions, which my colleague Mesic was talking about, and Mr Boluncic, we will certainly be in the area, I would like to say so in layman's terms we have constant work and dorada. It means that I believe that any rule of any article of the law we will have to grind from the ground, listen, talk, and local self-government, and with the conservative departments of ours between which we stimulate as much contact with local self-government as I think it is not often the way it should be until we get close to some point of the ideal. I would say that this ideal, first of all, is to warn the awareness of the fact and to accept the fact of our environment that the cultural good is our cultural treasure and that our country is beautiful and miraculously doing exactly that cultural treasure and natural treasure. So that fact should be on all of us when it comes to talking, negotiating or negotiating first steps with some investor or projects that are immediately taken to say, in the game of concessioning cultural goods, maritime goods, and all in calling it economic purposes. Why? I would like us to have such an investor who will realize that cultural well-being can only enrich his investment, is that only in this case could the Ministry of Culture in that sense speak of it can make certain steps and help the investor whether a part of the grant for concession is forgiven or that the full exemption given that the investor will be obliged to accept certain procedures and regulations on the protection of cultural goods. The Memorial rent, the truth that the Ministry of Culture lost approximately 25 million kuna this year and that in 2013 we will probably be at that level as well. That is big money, we are not happy... a solution because we are right in the position of protecting cultural goods and the position of investment of large projects, perhaps the Apoxyomena in Losinj, the Eltz Vukovar Museum, that is, the werewolf culture, archeological museums are actually slowed down and because of such situations, but I believe that in the coming year we will already have the opportunity to go to these new spaces. As for the arts and goods of culture that are here colleagues from HSU, I think she spoke about countries, countries that are not in the European Union, and then we simply cannot take into account certain positive laws that we will be subject to since 1.7.2013. There are certain international conventions for the transport of these goods, i.e. for the return of these goods and works of art, which are then regulated accordingly by the return, i.e. relations in such cases. Maybe a little depression, that's about a business license, means someone who wants to do jobs to protect the cultural goods of natural and legal persons must obtain permission from the Ministry of Culture. This means that they are professionally and technically qualified to carry out protection and conservation activities of cultural goods. Why, the purpose of this authorisation is precisely to prevent unprofessional handling or doing business and to prevent damage to cultural goods. And finally, I think Mr. Boluncic did mention all those things I would say historical elements that make up, say, the historical heritage of Pula. I remind you that some Austrian military complexes in Pula have their own historical importance. The Austro-Hungarian monarchy was not a naval force, but she wished it to be, and Pula was just the city's choice for this fact that in this story of incredible historicals I would tell the truth and it was a historical heritage that at least one part should be preserved. I'll mention that the sailors of that naval force were Istrians, the coasters, the Dalmatians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23766	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have one replica. Dear Representative Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23767	Well, in short, so you don't... We are certainly in Pula and Istria for the protection of cultural goods, namely cultural gastronomic offer is what Istria has recently said is that among the first 10 destinations in the world... what National Geographic said. So it's not our idea to destroy the cultural good, it's our idea to bring it in. Namely, this good thing that we're talking about the Monuments, it can't be approached there anymore, it's a ruin, it's... and in the end it's not just dangerous, so it's going to come to the end that no one will want to take that concession under any conditions because it just restores it, it costs so much that this one will say I don't want it. We have a similar thing, and with, say, a swimming pool in Pula from the Italian days, deconservators are asking for it to be returned to the state they said before. They won't take it, they say I'd rather tear down and make a copy than do it with some wires, glass wool. That's one thing. Second, of course it can wait, but this waiting to agree on the articles should not take too long. Then someone's gonna say good, and I don't have what to look for right now, so I'm gonna go somewhere else, so it should still be a faster one. And speaking of all cultural monuments, we have always been deluded, there are different stories as to how the whole of Croatia is rich but one of the most important monuments in Croatia from the times of Rome in Pula is of course Arena, it is not listed on UNESCO. There are different stories that didn't put it in there. Is there any chance of such a single monument still entering the UNESCO list because it seems to me that there are monuments that are not even the level of that arena. So I would beg that around these parts still be supported... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23768	Replica reply, Deputy Minister Berislav Shipus.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23769	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly, so maybe a little backwards. A fellow Mesic shouts is not possible, it is not possible. In accordance with the knowledge of the entire procedure that moves into a candidateship of a particular cultural good for its inclusion in the UNESCO list of material or non-material lists, I believe that given the presence of the Adriatic coast and the locality of the Adriatic coast, our Croatian coasts already present on the list may call it a maximum there and certain remarks exist from our colleagues, colleagues in UNESCO that there may be something else to appear there. So there's no obstacle to going into the candidacy of such an object that certainly deserves it, but I'm afraid we'll have one resistance within UNESCO itself. I will remind you that in a few days' time the General Assembly of UNESCO in Paris is expected to discuss the Zadar Forum, it is a material good that goes as a candidacy and where a debate on our immaterial cultural good is expected, and that is the Dalmatian tick. So we hope we can have good news, but we must always be careful. As far as I'm saying these articles you've been talking about, of course we're ready to say we're almost in the context of it, so we've formed a working group to work on a new law, so I hope we'll be faster in all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23770	Thank you very much. So we exhausted the list of reported persons, the list of persons reported for replication, and the reply to the replica. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That's what I believe tomorrow morning. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the laws on the protection and preservation of cultural goods, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 204. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by legislator Valter Boljunčić. I'm asking the government's representative to come forward with Professor Shipus Deputy Minister. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23772	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment of the Legislative Committee shall not be adopted in the introductory sentence of Article 15. Our reason for not accepting was that the use of the word indent in the text of that article was introduced on the proposal of the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The word indent in the... contents of an article are also used in other regulations that have recently been adopted in the Croatian Parliament, e.g. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies and, therefore, we believe that the adoption of that amendment is not necessary now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23773	I'd like the chairman of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23774	That's exactly what you're saying... and the setup. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] And we will also have to make the Committee of Law and the Government's Office do as other countries have one regulation that will determine how laws are written and what is the basic terminology. I think it's good for all of us, for the government and for us as legislators, and for our own addressees to which the laws apply. Thank you. I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23775	I didn't understand the board president, did he withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23777	Thank you very much. I would ask the Government's representative to declare the amendment of the Honored Representative of the Valeter Boljunčić's amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23778	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is also not accepted. The argument would therefore be that the proposed amendment is unacceptablely contradictory in relation to the other provisions of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods which regulate the granting of concessions on cultural goods and the Law on concessions. In fact, it would permanently take away the power of the Ministry of Culture, local and regional self-government to grant concessions even though it was governed by those laws, and it would be in fact incomprehensible that one provision empowers the concession providers to grant concessions, and another provision actually prevents the exercise of this power. We note that the final draft law contains provisions governing the situation when cultural goods are subsequently determined, so after the concession procedure, the establishment of the right of construction and service under a special regulation is initiated so that no concession procedure under this law will be carried out if the concessionary, the holder of the right of construction and the authorisation of service accept the conditions of protection and preservation of cultural goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23779	Thank you very much. Please make a statement to the esteemed representative, Walter Boleuncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23780	Thank you. This law is a significant step forward in the economic use of cultural goods. The idea of my proposal was that some of the situations that already exist and which are problematic because of their nature are solved in a way that there are no further obstacles. So the purpose of this amendment was to address certain problems that could arise, which can and cannot be solved in the management of this amendment. I think the idea of this is itself, and basically what you said you were rejecting it because in some way the Ministry of Culture would have given up its concessions, it's not quite logical because it's only about those goods that are related that they've entered into some larger project, not individually. And besides, I think what you said about the new law, the question of giving concessions, I think the Ministry of Culture as such would be very happy to give up that task and remain on what is their primary activity, which is to define how cultural goods are used and what are the conditions. I say once again, this amendment is therefore not crucial to the law, but it can be significant in certain technical and current situations and therefore I ask that it be voted on. So my proposal was to advance this Article 43a with one situation that could show tomorrow that it would require some further harmonisation, and investors who came forward do not have much time to wait a year for the new law to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23781	Are you asking for a vote? Please state who is for the amendment of the respected representative Walter Boluncic, whom the government does not accept. [[- Yeah, I said.]] Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 104 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 10 abstentions, have been adopted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Now we move on to - Final bill on amendments to the Act of Conduct and terms of construction to encourage investment, second reading, P.Z. No. 170. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposal in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Minister Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23783	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Act on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment. No matter what he has this long name, we call it, of course, the law in 45 days. As you can see in this proposal, the amendments and additions refer to 7 articles. Through these 7 articles, we have done the following: compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, harmonisation of a given term and what is important, important and significant that we have extended this law from the end of the year to 30 June 2013. Why until 30 June 2013? This law has shown good effects, and until then we are preparing to make a new regulation, that is, the new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, where all the good elements and conditions of this Law will be incorporated into this law. We therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament decide on this law and for the simple reason it is very operational, good and good for our investors and investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23784	Thank you, too, Your Honor. So, with time and electricity careful, energy. Do the committee rapporteurs, the working bodies want to take part in the debate, the report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the respected representative Vedran Benic. Here you go, Your Honor. Excuse me, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23785	I'll take it. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment in its second reading. This Act was adopted in mid-2009 and by analysing the results of its application, i.e. monitoring the situation in the area of construction from the competent ministry, we can conclude that... its basic purpose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is that an investor under this procedure can obtain a building permit for our concepts within a relatively short period of time. Namely... This law allows for construction and construction, instead of the basis of two acts of local authorisation and confirmation of the main project on the basis of one building solution act, whose time limit is significantly shorter than under the previous procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the very number of acts necessary for the issue of a building permit, complete preparation of the project before the application itself shall be possible and the deadline for setting specific conditions prescribed by the specific regulations shall be reduced significantly. Following the abovementioned application of this law, it has an indirect positive effect on the acceleration of the flow of capital and on the promotion of reduced direct investment in the area of construction. In November 2011, the validity of this Act was extended until 31 December 2012, and this proposal proposes an extension of the period until 30 June 2013. Furthermore, in addition to the extension of the application of this Act, it is necessary to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act in such a way as to delete the subsidiary application of the ZUP, and the issue of the silence of the administration is no longer resolved by the application of the so-called ‘ZUP’. The negative fiction is already considered the same as the assumption of a complaint, i.e. a administrative dispute. In addition, the Law on the Treatment and Conditions of Construction in order to encourage investment should be brought into line with the Law establishing, deliriousness of the Ministry and other central authorities of State Administration as regards the name of the Ministry and Minister of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, and with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Croatia with the Criminal Law in a way that the title of the criminal provision is replaced by the correct title of the infringement provision. The following is said, and for the reason that no additional resources are needed in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this amendment to the law, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23786	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Vedrana Babiæ. We are now going to the presentation of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament and we invite the respected representative Branko Bačić to present his position.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23787	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Well, we have already heard that in the reading process and when the law was extended for the first time, which is practically two years ago that it was one of the anti-resion measures at a time when we intended to create more favourable conditions for direct foreign or domestic investment in the Republic of Croatia. As we have already said through this Law, it is possible to issue building acts in such a way as to issue only one document, instead of the location permits and confirm the main project now, i.e. the administrative department in the counties and large cities, i.e. to issue only one document. a solution to construction within 45 days, which proved to be an excellent law. However, what has, in recent times, not good is the fact that the requirements for the issue of a building solution have been rejected primarily for the reason that the investor could not contribute to the evidence that he is in charge, that the project is in line with the conditions issued in the construction solution on the one hand and on the other hand that it is often, that investors have submitted a request for a building solution for already started works, which would then represent a kind of legalisation, and such possibility was not legally provided. But what certainly makes it impossible for a large number of investors in the Republic of Croatia to apply and be included not only in this law but also in the possibility of issuing works for construction is the fact that unsettled property-legal relations in the Republic of Croatia and that the practical arrangement of property-legal relations began somewhere in the early 1990s when the Realty Catastrophe Act was passed. Under the law, many units of local self-government have joined the State Geodetic Authority with a requirement to carry out a cadastrian measurement and reconstruction of land books in their units. So over the past 12 years, 9% of the country's territories have gone into a new cadastrian measure, i.e. 300 catastrian municipalities of 3 350 of them in Croatia. A third of these catastrian municipalities have already been established and a catalogue of real estate and land books has been built. One-third is in the process of exposure, and one-third is being carried out at the moment. I also resented the ministry during the state budget proposal, i.e. the government, for reducing the funds to the State Geodetic Authority by 8%, and that is precisely in the large part of the business dealings relating to the establishment of a new cadastre and a land book, and I said that this is an important assumption of the realization of any investment in the Republic of Croatia. I'm just going to give two examples of what it means to have a new cadastre and a land book, and I think these two examples are clearly justifying larger investments in the catastrian measurement and restoration of the land book. The implementation of the cadastral measurement and renewal of land books generally doubles the number of particles in a catastrian municipality, which means that the average area of particles is doubled, the number of registered buildings is doubled, the registration of property registered in land books is tripled, and the number of property-legal disputes related to borders and records in registers falls to less than 1% of the number of disputes before the cadastrian measurement. And finally, the number of municipal fees increases by several times. We've even got examples that it's even up there. Another example that justifies investments in the cadastral measurement of each registered family house, along with the financial flows of Croatia, is the introduction of a new capital of at least 50 thousand euros as the average value of the mortgage on such facilities. On average, a thousand newly registered buildings are increasing the financial power of the settlement by about 50m euros, following the implementation of the cadastrian measurement and reconstruction of the land book. This is why it is not acceptable for us at the HDZ Club that the funds for the maintenance of the catastra and land book and the establishment and catastra of real estate are reduced by 28%, that both the management and maintenance of the common information system of the land book and the catastra are reduced by 21%, that the reduced resources for the national programme for the identification of land particles are 53%, that the construction of the real estate catastra in the Neretva valley are reduced by 32%, and that the cataster of real estate on the islands imagine even 50%. Why did I bring it all up? I have cited primarily for the reason to say that, on the good side of this law, on the good side of the fact that the ministry is preparing a new Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, that all of this will fall into the water if it is not prepared, it does not provide investors with the possibility that they can simply go into the realisation of their projects. Therefore, as much as the government has tried and continued with such a law and all other projects, all these projects will be quite disabled if I can say so because it does not systematically continue what is crucial for any investment in Croatia, which is to settle property-legal relations. Nevertheless, it is clear that the HDZ club will support this law because it has already proved extremely effective in its implementation. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-29-0.u23788	Thank you, too. This is what ended the club debate. The applicant's representative does not want to take the final word. The debate on the text of the law is over. We will conclude tonight's session, invite you tomorrow to a new working day at 9.30 p.m. with a agenda point we begin the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on Purchase, Exchange of Services USA-Croatia 2, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 200. Good vacation. See you tomorrow. Thank you very much. Final draft law amending the Act of Conduct and construction conditions to encourage investment, second reading, PZ No. 170, the debate on the text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 105 for and 11 abstentions, have been adopted by the Law amending the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions in order to encourage investment in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
