ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21962	Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the respected colleagues continue to work. According to last night's published order, we begin with the only item of today's agenda. This is - a) a report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2011; - A report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 01 January to 30 June 2012; one and the other report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received both reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Jaksa Puljiz, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and European Union Funds. Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21963	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here, let me just say a few words briefly on the report on the use of EU funds. So we represent two reports. So, a report covering the last 6 months of 2011 and the first 6 months of 2012. Why did it go with two reports? Simply because of the changes in the state administration due to the new structure, we decided to wait, however, until all the information relevant to the report was prepared and finally we decided to make a difference to go with two reports united so that you eventually get a more complete picture. However, the dynamics of the next reports will be as envisaged, so every 6 months the Croatian government will send regular reports on the use of EU funds. What is the specificity of these reports above all to highlight the report covering the other 6 months of 2011. It's the last report that mentions the first generation of pre-accession programmes. It's the Cards, it's the PHARE and ISPA. So, simply with these programs it's over, the period of implementation of the contract has expired, and inside you will find information about success in the use of that first generation. Also another newspaper in these reports is that for the first time they mention preparations for using structural instruments after membership, both in the 2011 Report for the last 6 months and in the Report for the first 6 months of 2012 and will now become an integral part of all future reports. So, our intention is that we do not only have a report that looks back, but also a report that looks into the future that happens in preparation for using structural instruments after membership. What are the most important messages of the report? So, I'll do it because it's simply the very essence of the reports I have to mention certain figures. In the implementation report for the last 6 months 2011, the most important information is that on 31.12.2012, the contract rate of funds was 37.8% in relation to available IPA assets. So, of the total 668m euros available, 37.8% were agreed. Of course, this degree of bargaining differs with individual components. It must be stressed that it has been recorded, so it is a very high percentage of the first generation IPA agreement. So we're talking about the IPA 2007 programme where we have, which we can really measure how successful we were, since the negotiation period is up. So it was 92% of the total available funds. Of course, for the lost IPA programmes in the first component of IPA 2008, 2009, 2010, since the period of negotiation has not yet been completed, these percentages were relatively low on 31.12.2011. 34% IPA 2008, 26% IPA 2009 and only 9% IPA 2010. The two component records very high bargaining rates, which is usually a feature from the beginning of these programs, so on average over 90%. There have been no new deals in the last six months but only new tenders have been opened. However, in component 3a. The very important component covering the area of transport was only 6% on 31.12.2011, i.e. only 15 million euro worth of projects were agreed. In component three b covering the area of the environment, the situation was much better. Thus, a total of 57% of the funds allocated amounting to 54.9m euros were agreed. Component 3c 32% of the contract. The four component of the development of human potential of the contractual rate is 31.12. 49%. And now we get to the IPARD component, actually the component where the worst situation is recorded. So the contract rate was only 15%. What, though, was the worst situation? Because of one data that is also a very measurable indicator of our success, and this is the data on the automatic recall of the funds. Simply put, the funds we returned to the budget of the European Union in 2011 were about the amount of approximately 39 million euros that we returned because we did not negotiate, spend, certification in time. If we're going to talk about the causes of such a result, they're multiple. On the one hand, it is doubtless that the problem was in the capacity of contracting and implementing bodies. However, some objective problems should also be highlighted. Croatia started using EU funds in a number of areas where it was relatively complex projects, large infrastructure projects. All these projects, which crossed the 10m-euro border, had to pass the European Commission approval procedure that was very, very long. So a lot of time just got lost waiting for a positive light from Brussels. Also, the process of accreditation of Croatian bodies lasted longer than planned, while at the same time the deadline of the contract was up, regardless of how we were not accredited. So, the tender of this Report for 6 months 2011 is a relatively low contract rate of 37% and a relatively high amount of funds returned to the EU budget of 39m euros. In 2012, certain changes were made to be mentioned. So, first of all, administrative changes. A new ministry has been established whose responsibility is the coordination of activities with regard to the use of EU funds. These new changes, however, have not caused any slowdown or problems of the European Commission's vis-a-vis. Therefore, the accreditation obtained has not been compromised by the new administrative structure. All activities continued as they were and started. What is the situation after 6 months of 2012? So here we have data that, as you can see in the agreement rate report, we are now talking, of course, for the IPA components on 30.06.2012, it was 50%, or 50.2%, or 12.4% more than in the previous reporting period. The latest information we have since 16.11. speaks about the rate of agreement of approximately 59%. So with 37% of 31.12.2011, we're currently at a 59% contract level. Other important information to mention is of course payments. So it's not enough just to agree on projects, projects need to be implemented according to appropriate procedures. So when we talk about payments available, the payment rate was 31.12. 18.9%, and the 16.11. data speaks about 30% of the value, so the payment rate is relative to the allocations. However, this increase in the contract was not evenly distributed across all components. Component 1 is going very well, so that's where the contractual rates have increased significantly. For example, IPA 2009 from 34.1% 31.12.2011 to 94.7% 30.06.2012, etc. A certain increase has been recorded for all programming years. But of these large programs, therefore large in the sense that they are engaged in large projects of Component Transport 3a the contract rate has increased from 16% to 40%, primarily for reasons because significant works have been arranged on the shares of X. Corridor Okucani – Novska as well as Corridor Zagreb – Rijeka. So it's about designing the Corridor towards Rijeka. What is our greatest can be said to be success in this period is an increase in the agreement and improvement of the IPARD situation. Therefore, in the IPARD, the contract rate was 32.11% which was almost double the score compared to the state of 31.12.2011 when it was approximately 16%. In the IPARD, not only is the contract rate better and what is very important is that it is a much greater interest than the boredom and this extension of the competition currently under way for Measure 301 will certainly result in a further increase in the contract rate. So we expect by the end of the year to cross the level of 40% of the IPARD contract. Let's mention more important components. Component 3c Regional competitiveness in which we have a 32% contract rate on 31.12.2011, the contract rate has jumped to 53% in 6 months. The weakest progress was recorded in the environmental component where the agreement jumped from 57% to only 58%, however, it should be noted that in that component the already relatively high level of agreement was recorded in the previous period, and since it is a small number of major projects until this shift in the contract comes in certain cycles that are longer than 6 months. What is very important is the question of what will be the denunciation of funds in 2012, above all compared to 2011. So, in 2011, it was 39 million euros, in 2012, we expect at least a double-declaration of funds. So we're talking about a maximum amount of 20 million euros. Therefore, despite all efforts, the administration still failed to compensate for all the backlogs and to contract all available funds, however, this loss or loss rate will be much lower than in the previous period. What is also important to emphasise is that strong preparations have been stepped up in this period for the use of structural instruments after membership. Therefore, certain necessary conditions have been created, above all legally, so we are talking about the adoption of laws regulating the institutional framework for the use of structural instruments after membership. I am talking about the adoption of a regulation defining the precise functions of the body in the management and control system after membership. These two legal acts create the prerequisites for setting up a series of other acts and procedures, which form an integral part of the accreditation process. It is a very complex procedure that includes the production of a series, a series of regulations, a series of manuals and so on. an organisational development strategy which should now be adapted to the conditions for the use of structural instruments. One of the key things about this whole story is administrative capacity. All of these figures that we are talking about are good part and the result of administrative capacity, where I think about the number of employees, so we have been followed for a long time by the EU Commission's assessments of sub-capacitation, or by an insufficient number of people involved in the work of the system. So here we have data so in June 2012 815 employees worked in the system. On the basis of an assessment of the need for additional employment, the government has decided to engage 232 additional workers by the end of October of this year in order to obtain all the conditions for obtaining accreditation, i.e. to work primarily without the EU Commission's prior control under the IPA programme and obtain accreditation for the use of structural instruments after membership. The Ministry of Regional Development is tasked as a key coordinating body to monitor and implement this decision. The situation is that we currently have 30 new employees in accredited bodies and we have 87 employees currently in the employment process, 60 of whom are expected to be employed by the end of this year. So it's something slower than planned. The first plan was for these people to be hired by internal competitions or redistributions. It has been shown that such a thing cannot be implemented within such a short period of time and therefore a new decision is now being drawn up where the rest of the employees will go through a public tender. We believe that this 232 staff will meet all the criteria required of us for obtaining authorisation for work without prior EU control of the Commission and for the start of using structural instruments. However, it is certain that further employment will be needed over the next year. It is necessary to know that the system is also such that a very large number of people are leaving the system so that continued employment is needed to maintain the necessary level of stability. Another very important piece of information, and it concerns the programming process. So you know that Croatia must, of course, prepare appropriate programming bases to be able to use the Structural Programmes, we are talking primarily about operational programmes. The operational programmes for the other 6 months and the first 6 months of membership are completed as far as the Croatian sides are concerned, addressed to the EU Commission for approval and now waiting for the first reactions and comments from the EU Commission. In any case, the job was done early enough to ensure that the EU Commission's approval decision was delivered as soon as possible or immediately after Croatia's membership. At the same time, the Croatian government has started procedures for drawing up programming documents for the new seven-year period of 2014-2020 in April of this year, so far there have been analytical bases, the phase has been completed and is now moving towards the stage of defining development priorities. Another information that is very indicative, which refers to capacity building, i.e. educational activities. Educational activities have been intensified both at central government level and very important at local and regional level. So this year alone, we expect that more than 4,000 people will pass our education through different educations at local and regional level, and at the central level, at least 500 people from central government bodies are expected to undergo specialized training, above all, regarding the management and control of the use of EU funds. What is also very important to highlight and what is bothering all together is the preparation of projects for structural funds. Specific programmes to finance project preparation have been launched. The first results are already visible only in the portfolio of the Ministry of Regional Development on the list of priority projects are worth 600m euros planned to prepare this year and next year, some of them will be ready to launch already 1.7.2013. Another information that is very indicative is irregularities. So how much money has been returned to the EU budget due to irregularities. In the first 6 months of 2012, 3600 euros were returned, which is really a very small amount, which shows that the system is very stable to work quality, and the total from the start of the IPA programme has been returned only 0.13% of the funds allocated, which is one extremely low percentage that shows that the control system is quality but that users reflect this IPA system and that the level of irregularities is really very low. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21964	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first is a respected representative of Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21965	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Deputy Minister. So I think that this system for managing and exploiting European funds is certainly one of the most important tasks that the Croatian state has at the moment, not only at this moment but also in previous years and those that come before us. So I'd actually like to propose to you here, and I'll talk about it in my debate. So when we talk about the system to speak objectively, accurately and correctly because we are talking about something that is really important for the Croatian state, regardless of who leads the government. So you put these numbers out in an unusual context. You said 39m euros were recalled, of which 39m euros were called off in terms of the loss of funds allocated to IPARD in 2007, but savings were also made which were recalled. And so you know that the use of funds has made savings that the commission did not allow to be redistributed to other projects, but for the IPA 2007-2009, the commission's request has changed. So then that impeachment in one objective light seems to you in a completely different way than what you described it. I still have a series of similar remarks. Of course, there has been an increase in transport contracts from 16% to 40% when the simple project is completed. Well, it didn't end safely in two months, preparing for years. So I wouldn't last any longer than to conclude with what I said at the beginning, these are important things and it's extremely important that the administration, regardless of which government heads the administration, works on their implementation in continuity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21966	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, dear Deputy Minister Jacksa Pugliz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21967	What you mentioned was certainly another reason why it was so much. It is true, therefore, that it was not possible to realise the funds achieved by savings on the percentages of public procurement, and the European Commission did not give us the opportunity to use these resources on other projects. So I really agree with you about this, but the fact remains that we have lost a very large part of our resources. Let's remind only the IPARD is about 25 million euros, so I'm not saying at all that it was the exclusive responsibility of the Croatian side, I mentioned that part of the problem lies in the long procedures of the European Commission, especially in the approval of large projects. Part of the problem stems from the fact that accreditation was obtained after they started running for contracts, however, it is doubtless that the Croatian administration must work even faster and more effectively if we want to reduce this loss. And I repeat my great pleasure and pleasure to say that we expect a much smaller recall in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21968	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. And Branko Hrg, the esteemed representative, his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21969	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Here, Mr. Deputy, you said a whole series of education and preparations and arrangements are being prepared, and I don't know what doesn't, so it sounds a little weird to me, since last night we were discussing budget rebalancing, where we were preparing for EU funds for 30 million kuna. Well, it's a little disproportionate to what you've brought out here today and what you're telling us since you've tied yourself to the first half of this year's report, which is fine and what's normal. But somehow, it seems to me that maybe we're a little bit too easy to access these programs, these projects, and we haven't really seen enough in the part where local self-governments go into these projects, since local self-government units basically don't have the means to pre-financing, that they don't have for their component, so I think we should also give some indication in the reports of solving the problems we're dealing with. I know you're familiar with them and there's a lot of problems. So I think we should take a closer look at this, that disproportionateness, and the illogicalities that appear here definitely agree and realistically looking at these percentages are defeating in the extreme case, and those before and after because we are talking about some percentages everywhere if 50% we are very happy. I come from the town of Križevci, which has many projects of cross-border cooperation. Our realization is about 93, 94%, so here I think the Ministry of Regional Development should go in that direction and report that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21970	Thank you, Your Honor. And the answer to your line, Deputy Minister of State Jaksha Pugliz.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21971	Once again, when we talk about objectively looking at success, then we can actually do so only when the period of negotiation, i.e. the use of EU funds, expires. We're currently only at the... component we can look at in that way where all these deadlines have expired, for example. in the first component of IPA where they have achieved very good results of over 90%. I'm going to tell you this is our goal this year, until the end of this year our agreement rate at the level of the entire IPA programme is over 60%, and by the end of the IPA program between 85 and 90%. As far as local self-government is concerned, of course, that we are very aware of the problems that occur on the ground in terms of co-financing capacity. This year we did this, first of all, we made a deal, an agreement with the HBOR that launched the credit lines that are now covering all the IPA programs. So you know that now there have been credit lines for the IPARD program and for the component that referred to grants for entrepreneurs, so now we have funds that are very favourable, 3% interest rates and that allow for a really very favourable debt to finance IPA projects in all components. Project preparation is critical, something really critical. The realisation of the programme itself is not easy because the public procurement procedures have slowed us so much this year that we have failed to complete this programme, but next year not only will we increase this amount in the Ministry of Regional Development but we have insisted at the level of all ministries that the amount for the preparation of the projects is significantly increased and you will see in the state budget, so you could see for 2013 it is important amounts we now have and the funds are important for us from EU funds so that the local units will feel especially in 2013 much more available resources for the preparation of projects. But the key issue remains, and these are the capacities of local self-government to design projects and use those resources to prepare... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21972	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas and the answers to the replica. Do the work-body reporters want to? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are starting with representatives of the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and respected representative Tonka Ivčević. Here you go, Tonk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21973	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here are two reports today – Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes for the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2011 and for the period from the first six months of this year. The first report covers the implementation of first generation CARDS pre-accession programmes 2004, PHARE 2006 and ISPA which ended on 31 December 2011, and the implementation of all components of the IPA programme through both reports. In all pre-accession funds, Croatia has had 970m euros at its disposal so far, using 67.5%, which will certainly increase by the time it enters the European Union. In the period from 1 July to 31 December 2011, the European Commission allocated 76.14m euros for the ISPA programme and all IPA components to the national fund. In the reporting period 56.88m euros were paid to end-users and contractors, while a total of 367,85m euros were paid from the start of implementation. As regards the report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2012. European Commission amounts to 20.03m euros for IPA components 3, 4 and 5 at the expense of the National Fund. In total, 33.55m euros were paid to end-users and contractors during the reporting period. It is evident from both reporting periods that Croatia did not make sufficient use of the funds, although by half of this year we recorded an increase of 12%, given the 37% agreed on using these funds at the end of last year. From the approved 668m euros to 30 June, 328m or 49% were contracted and 24% of the appropriations were paid, up from 5% compared to the previous reporting period. At the same time, the use of funds in the Member States of the Union was 33% and earlier was 44%. The biggest progress in the procurement of funds has been made in transport, regional competitiveness and agriculture, which has been the most critical as the Deputy Minister has said. That is why I must say that the government's happy initiative to double the amounts for projects the organisation's owners are at local and regional level. Support is intended for projects that are registered under operational programmes financed by the EU funds already being implemented, and for those to be implemented. It is necessary to systematically support the preparation of development projects in order to create emphasis on the bases and stockpiles of quality projects, and to direct project holders to the preparation of development projects of greater importance for regional development. During the reporting period, project preparation processes for the period from 2007, in particular in transport and environmental protection sectors, to which most of the total 450m euros for the implementation of the European Union cohesion policy were allocated in the second half of 2013. It is important to stress that the European Union Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is constantly preparing and launching identification programmes. And as I have already said, co-financing of project preparation from regional and local levels for future funding from EU funds. This initiative should allow potential project applicants from less developed areas of additional opportunities to prepare projects. It is therefore necessary to constantly dispose of well-trained personnel who know how to work in accordance with the European procedure. In order to make use of pre-accession funds in the future as good as possible, changes need to be made as vigorously as possible, and EU entry is more transparent and clear as possible to put emphasis on education. The Deputy Minister has already said, here in June 2012 815 employees who are in the system of state administration work on pre-accession funds, and that workload analyses have been made for the upcoming period. All this has shown a lack of capacity and the need to engage new employees. With the strengthening of administrative capacity, education programmes should be systematically implemented to the lowest levels. That is why the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, in cooperation with all Croatian development agencies, has launched a process of education of more than 1,000 employees of units of local and regional self-government to prepare and implement projects to be financed by European funds. Through a programme to strengthen human potential at local and regional level for effective preparation and use of EU funds, more than 4000 people will be educated in various segments of preparation and implementation of projects of EU funds importance, to very specific topics such as public procurement in EU projects and further procedures used in the implementation process. In doing so, it is an important quality and permanent cooperation between the various authorities of the state administration that will have to prove useful, and certainly remains successful in the subsequent use of money from EU pre-accession funds. The effective withdrawal of funds certainly requires further quality preparation of projects because the very ability to withdraw and the amount of funds spent depends on everything mentioned, noting that the money from the EU budget is not coming until a complete permanent quality and very good organisation of all economic, political, social and institutional structures has been established. It is also important to stress here that, in order to assist local self-government units and other end-users, a programme of loaning candidates for the IPA Programme by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been opened. The purpose of credit and the financing of eligible expenditure which is part of the project, which is not possible to run for the IPA Programme in HBOR, has provided sufficient resources for all programmes and projects to be accepted. The report shows certain and continuous progress relating to the success, contract and payment of EU assistance programmes and has seen very low levels of irregularities. That is why I finally welcome all the efforts made by the Government and the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds to withdraw as much as possible and to prepare as possible for the use of EU structural assistance programmes. Therefore, the SDP club will accept both of these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21974	Thank you, too, Your Honor. At your presentation, respected representative Branko Hrg reported a replica. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21975	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's an esteemed colleague, so to me, I'm grateful we got a theoretical lecture like this on how units of local self-government should be prepared and what they need to do to attract funds from EU funds. I mentioned in that first replica of what kind of unit of local self-government I come from, and now it's not clear to me that what the Deputy Minister had just said is done, when we're going to educate more people this year, when we're going to prepare them so much, and how are we going to raise our loans very simply to cover our component in order to meet the conditions for achieving EU funds and projects? I don't think that's a good way to go, don't give us people's loans, don't give us credit. Give us fiscal decentralisation, give us funds in local self-government and we will certainly do this job very well, educate ourselves, prepare and withdraw money from the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21976	Thank you, Your Honor. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Tonka Ivčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21977	Well, here's Mr. Hrg and I come from a small unit of local self-government where I'm mayor, where we only have four employees but this year we've educated two people through the development of the Split-Dalmatia County agency and that education for our employees was free of charge. They are now ready to prepare and work on implementing the EU programme. As far as decentralisation of funds is concerned, there has been an announcement of a real estate tax from which total funds go to local self-government units where we will certainly get a lot more money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21978	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We're going further into the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is now the HDZ club and respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21979	Dear President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So as I was saying in a brief intervention after the address of the deputy minister, we at the HDZ Club hold that the issue of success and quality withdrawal of funds from EU funds is certainly one of the biggest, personally, and the biggest challenge of the years to come. Because with funds to be made available to Croatia from cohesion and structural funds, Croatia really has as we all know together the development chance it has never faced before. It's really about the high amounts of funds. I therefore believe that it is really necessary to mobilise and engage everything that is essentially the best that Croatia has in order to make use of these funds. And to make use of it, I think it depends on a few things that are intertwined in some places, and in some places they're not. On the one hand is what is one part behind us and what will continue in the future, which is that administrative capacity. And I think that really when we talk about these issues, I think it would really be important to define and describe the problem exactly as it is without any fear of that problem in any kind of political color because it's really about national interest. And this administrative capacity suffers from the problems that other public and administrative services suffer from. And as you mentioned yourself people are leaving, there is a loss of knowledge that is acquired, a year working after that leave. And I therefore think that, especially since the budget debate next week would be important to describe and define exactly what this is about. It is about the need to employ quality people in this system who know the languages of work who at least know something about project management because there are no persons in Croatia who have experience in EU project management when these projects have so far been limited by the nature of things. And describe this problem because it's a national interest, and then when we talk, and we talked yesterday about reducing the salaries of all agencies and equating to their state service well, but in the context of Chapter 22, we took the obligation to pay these people better. No matter how much we fool ourselves, people work for money. The best go further if they find better opportunities somewhere, and that's why people leave this system, because in the private sector after a year, a year or a half or two of work in the state ministries simply find a much better paid job in the private sector. Of course, people wear both wishes and Ellen are all that, but we have to admit that people work for money. And that's why all of this we're talking about when we talk about the budget on wage savings needs I'm the last person to stand up for an increase in any expenditure. And sometimes I find it unusual to sit here and listen to us discuss savings by promoting individual projects. I'm the last person to stand up for an increase in any category of expenditure but I feel the need in the name of the HDZ Club and my own say, let's be careful what we do here with salaries and agencies because the people who work on these projects are working on achieving and reviving national interest, which is that the funds that we have agreed with the commission that are actually in our pre-accession contract will be used, otherwise it will remain just a dead letter on paper and a missed opportunity. So otherwise I think, and the experience from previous years is that it takes much more, much more important public attention and also in this House to present the events related to the preparation of projects. The minister said projects worth 600m euros are being prepared. It would be much better to prepare projects worth 2 billion euros, because many for now and unrecognizable things will happen when implementation begins. It is extremely important that there are projects on the shelf ready, and the prepared project does not mean a project for which consultants have written some documentation, a prepared project means a project with purchased land, means a project with solved ownership relations, means a project with all possible studies, so a project with obtained permits is a prepared project, and the preparation of projects in us takes a long time. All those obstacles that interfere with private investment are also hampered by projects that are preparing for the EU. And so I really think that 45 million kuna at the Ministry of Regional Development is little to prepare the projects. It may be enough to pay for administrative, technical, professional staff outside the state service which is important, but certainly the question of buying land, study issues, traffic, technical, environmental not require and much more resources and much more time. I would therefore like and encourage all of us to remind this 600m-euro number of projects that are in preparation to become a number of a billion 600.2 billion euros in projects in the shortest time since it means in the full first year of membership there will be 2.5 times more funding than in the first year of membership and 3 times more funding from funds than in the second year of membership. It is a lot of money for the capacity of the Croatian economy. However, the budget projection for the next three years has also arrived ahead, signalling the expectations of withdrawing from the European funds for withdrawal from the European funds over the coming years. Many people who look through objective eyes because by analyzing it, they've told me in their professional capacity these days, so isn't that a little planned? Well, politicians have been telling us for years that in the next financial perspective, we are expected by billions of euros of 13 billion euros, not so little in the first years of membership, so it's not enough or it's hardly enough to cover our payments to the EU budget. I don't think there should be a big problem about these projections right now, but they and they warn you, and we warn ourselves how important a major project is to prepare projects and that the planners didn't dare plan bigger numbers here at this point. And objectively, we will have much higher amounts in those years, especially in 2014, especially in 2015. Although 2015 now looks very far away and what we are talking about, projects are being prepared today to be funded from EU funds. I would therefore like to conclude this exposure with one message to all of us that given the importance of this problem, given the impact that European funds will have on our future, we are committed to this problem seriously and properly, without self-inflicted recognition of all its features where the weaknesses of the system are, where the strong foreign systems are and to address these problems as quickly as possible. No mutual debate will help us much because, as always, as before, the Commission will stand on the opposite side in a certain way, or the European Union, which will simply always have its own rules, its own procedures, e.g. Alocate funds or the next 8 months won't bring in a regulation that allows you to go into accreditation and then say you didn't take advantage of it, but because I didn't allow you to go into accreditation at all for the first year at all, I don't care. Let's say that's case one, that's part of the Sapard case. There will always be European rules, European directives, assumptions that will be necessary to meet in order to benefit from these funds. This should be counted on, this should be prepared and the only way to make full use of available resources is to manage our own strengths in quality, for our own people working on it in coordination between all the levels that these problems deal with both national and local because we will not get much of the others here as well as so far, and this is really about something that is our developmental opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21980	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21981	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I want to replicate my colleague Dalic about her findings on the loss of administrative capacity. It is a fact and it is bad because it happens in a key year before joining the European Union and it has even been warned by Mr Johannes Hahn as a commissioner who takes care of it and tells us gentlemen in Croatia you are losing money. Here is the deputy minister who told us that in two years alone, we lost almost 45m euros, which is almost 300m kunas that local or any other level of government should certainly. The question arises whether we are going to put ourselves in a position to finance the developed European countries as poor Croatia with our payments to the EU budgets. This is a fundamental issue, and I think it is really time for everyone, especially the Ministry of Regional Development, to take this issue of European funds seriously because what is ahead of us, and we heard 250 million euros in the next 2013 so this increases to 500 million in the following year. Whether we're going to get into a situation where we're talking, so it's good, we used 30% or 40% because it's not equal to using 90% to 6 million available, it was these former funds that were much less generous or to use 30% or 20% to 500 million. That's big numbers. When we're playing with big numbers, there's a danger that we'll just lose and someone else will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21982	Thank you very much. And distinguished representative Branko Hrg, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21983	Here I am today a little persistently respected president, but I said at the beginning that this is an important topic to get over it, we're probably all aware of that. Well, I agree with Mrs. Dalic about everything she said, except for one. I do not think that it is necessary and necessary now to move towards hiring new people, unnecessaryly in one large part, as it was unnecessary to replace people who were preparing Croatia for entry into the European Union, so we broke our system. Today these people are downgraded, they exist somewhere in the system but are no longer in a position to prepare projects. That's why it's no wonder our realization is so weak. Today, in Croatia, I am convinced that there are one or two officials in every city who are ready and can certainly start preparing European Union projects. Today, there are development agencies around the county that can prepare these jobs for municipalities that do not have these capacities and for smaller cities we just have to work out a little bit, and not allow us to agree on an administrative system that then employs agencies, consulting houses that then work projects, so we double pay. I repeat, I come from the city that I'm doing this job. With a regular job, city officials do these jobs. We have excellent results, we have excellent uses, so you can think that way. He tells me we have too many state administrations, so let's table it, propose that administration, give it to people by profession and education within the system and start doing projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21984	Thank you very much. We're going forward with the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is now the turn of the HNS club and the esteemed representative Marijan Skvaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21985	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Minister, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. So here is the report on the use of pre-accession programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2011 and the period from 1 January 2012 to 30 June 2012 the HNS-Liberal Democrats would not want all of this to turn into some theoretical lecture. In this report, which is defined, there is indeed a lot of data, and we absolutely agree that the real use of pre-accession programmes and EU funds is very important that I would not say it alone and crucial for the development of our country. It is also important that, with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted on 6 October 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit regular reports to the Croatian Parliament on the use of pre-accession EU assistance funds and on a semi-annual basis. It is understandable that indeed the Croatian Parliament, we must be very good at discussing what resources these are, what are the possibilities given to Croatia by the European Union that we know them properly and allocate them correctly, correctly and correctly use what is most important. Here we have now a report for the entire area... and of course from this year from next year when a new programme is launched when we are working on new programming foundations from 2014 to 2020. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that part, it is also important to analyse and study very well what has been done and what is then expected for us in the next period that all the mistakes we have made, and indeed we have made them to correct and to use those funds that are being shown to us and that is 13 billion euros by 2020 to the greatest possible size, and it is particularly important that we use this in the development above all regional development of our country. In that part we were offered. We've been offered since 2005 when they started... program activities in the CARDS program, PHARE program, ISPA and SAPARD program. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that part, when we look at and part of the percentage agreed on compared to approved CARDS 94%, PHARE 94%, ISPA 87% there, we can really say that we used those funds quite well, and we can say that those funds weren't even big in that part. These were still the means that taught us all together to try to start thinking and learning about what these funds were and how to make good use of them according to contractual obligations and, of course, to get funds. Then we also open up an IPA program in that part that's much stronger in size and complexity, so we have 5 components. IPA first component of assistance in transition and strengthening institutions, IPA two cross-border cooperation, IPA three regional development, IPA four development of human potential, IPA five rural development. IPARD. And now that we're looking at that part of the relationship between the approved funds, the contracted and the most important paid ones here, we already see that there are quite a lot of differences already. Let's say IPA two for the 2007 funds, 2008 resource utilisation was 93%, and already in 2009 it fell to 17%. IPA three, we have usability of 35%, IPA four 49% and IPA five 15%. We can say in that part about IPA four and five because now they're still in the bargaining and payment process, that's why it's a smaller percentage. But again, when we analyse that IPA three is regional development, IPA five rural development, that's what more importantly we need to work on strengthening these components by activity and using those resources. And when we define that almost 40m euros over the negotiation period are not finished, but we have returned these funds to the European Union, then we must also say that with these means that we could use them in order to build them into development. Now, for reasons we haven't used them in that section, it's defined in this report, so there's a lot of subjective things we like to say, and there are a lot of objective circumstances. From objective circumstances, we can say that the European Commission adopted a legal framework for implementing the IPA programme only in July 2007 and for the Republic of Croatia deadlines have been linked to implementation and planning and payments since July 2007. But what I would objectively and subjectively point out specifically is that we, in the overall part of this period, have lost 2 years. Two years because Croatia needed to implement the projects financed by the programme in 2008 and according to the principle of N+3... that she was only one and a half years old, and she was supposed to be three years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The difference is that we spent two years in registering the paying agency, and in that time of course the funds that were approved were waiting. This was a clean mistake, and we can build on a new €39.40 million that we have not been able to use. Based on that part of what we've done, we can be satisfied on one side, from another level we can't be satisfied. We need to draw conclusions as far as possible, how we should proceed. During this period, especially during this year, many more competitions have been opened. Of course, we've always lost what I said for two years, and now we should make up for those two years, and we should use a lot more money, which is practically impossible. Let's just say that this year, the amount of the contracted funds has been increased from 37% to 59%, or 20%, respectively. And the question is, what's going to happen in the future? In the future, Croatia's entry into the European Union through the opening of cohesion funds, these are far larger funds. With these resources we've had, we've been acting like this with this analysis we've seen. What do we do next? Most importantly, all the things we've heard, which we'll hear, which is that first of all, we all need to get to work. And of course, in the examples of good practice in Croatia, we have heard from many colleagues, and I can also say personally as mayor of the town of Lepoglava, which is in that part of the smaller town under 10,000 inhabitants, we are limited to all resources, resources above all in the professional resources that believe me are the most important and, of course, we are limited to financial resources. But during that period, we used 8 projects from EU funds. A whole city budget and more funds from EU funds have been received. So now we're asking what's the difference in these things that some things can be done or they want to do? First of all, personally, I don't think there's any excuse that you haven't arrived or could have done anything, no excuse. The difference is that you have to set goals, quality goals, the goals you set for yourself define that you have to ensure measures to achieve these goals, and in these measures there must be mostly human resources, people who will do so and in what time period you need to do certain things. When defined, of course with a lot of will and denial, then results can be achieved. This is an example of good practice and indeed in Croatia these examples of good practice in me should be highlighted and helped to other local units that I have to tell just watch where the problems are, but did not make much of a move to get these funds. In general, what we would like to point out is what we should put an emphasis on here, but we really need people. People who know their jobs, and in that part of it, people need to be well stimulated. So, an increase in administrative capacity. It happens to us that these people we had, who were educated, then these people from the ministry went to the consulting houses. And the same ministries then had to pay these people extra through these consulting houses to continue doing these projects to them. So I really have to say human resources are very important to us and we have to use them not today but we should have educated them yesterday. Of course, it is very important to continue with the activities in education on all local units, regional ones should have a team of people who at least know what I said at first set their goals, and what they should do and how to do whether they made sense to define themselves in that part. Of course, it is also important to have your own means of participation because when you have the resources, you have a good program you are not able to enter that program unless you have your own resources. And that's where it's important that those 15% to 20% of the participation is very important to find. These programs according to HBOR and other things that have now been opened, I am very supportive. Essentially, it's crucial at less interest rates that occur. And I believe that every local unit in one of its segments can cover that part of the cost, and if I'm not sure the Ministry and the Government will find additional funds, additional resources to cover it because if it doesn't matter if someone is already offering you money, our job is to use that money, take and finally just say thank you. Here at last in that part of the HNS club will support this report with the desire that these goals we set to implement them as soon as possible because the real resources we are offered are large, the opportunities are also great and I am only telling us that we know that we are using them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21986	Thank you very much. The replica of your presentation has a colleague named Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21987	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's your colleague talking about the importance of human capacities to withdraw European funds. So, in a situation where we do not have enough of our own battery for so much necessary economic growth that only one can get us out of this poor economic situation, it is therefore extremely important to withdraw as many European funds as possible, i.e. European accumulations. It's simply a national interest right now. It should make sure that European funds have their own price, so only for half of next year, so from the moment Croatia enters the EU on 1 July for EU membership funds, it will be required to pay a billion and 700 million kuna. If that's not enough reason to really engage and strengthen that administrative capacity, then I don't know what it is. So right now we have 30,000 young people, professional people, people of all possible profiles on the Employment Exchange. These people don't think, they're getting ready to go abroad to create conditions for existence there or how we like to say it domestically in search of the belly for bread. So these people should be given the opportunity to work on these jobs. I don't know right now there are 800 people in the institutions for attracting European funds, planning to hire another 200, 230 as far as you said, Deputy. I don't know why it hasn't been done yet. So, the last moment is really to do everything to capitulate institutions with professional people and really not to put ourselves in a position not to be able to withdraw funds, not to negotiate them enough and even to return because we were unable to use them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21988	Reply to the replica Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21989	Well, here I absolutely agree with you esteemed colleagues, indeed human resources are very important. And I can also say the same from the example of good practice we did just that, all the employees of the highly educated people we had invited, we did education and after that education... the office, but which is not part of the city but is on market principles outside the city. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And after that, we can really say after 8 implemented projects we have over 20 fully prepared projects towards structural cohesion funds that appear in that part, and not only that, but we are open to all the services of these people, young people, we are helping all the local administrations. And here I was yesterday in Slovenia where there are really over 10 municipalities on the Slovenian side we have defined over 20 programs that bind us together. It's really an emphasis on people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21990	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21991	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is the report for the second half of 2011, the first half of 2012, and it tells us a lot of things. I won't quote the numbers, the numbers are in the report. It tells us about the rate of exploitation of what is agreed and what is truly achieved. It would be interesting to see once at the same place and the ratio offered and used, so what we could have possibly applied to and how much of it we asked for and how much of what we asked for. But, well, somewhere inside, I've read the usage number of the total that's going on about 37%, which, of course, shows we're not good enough. We're not the worst in Europe there are worse than us, but there's a lot better than us. What will happen in the next step when we approach EU structural funds that are significantly larger and wider in scope, if we stay for use let's say 35% of what we're actually offered. We are offered 13.7 billion euros. If we use 35% that's about 5 billion euros in the next seven-year period if, of course, the seven-year budget remains as it has been so far, that would mean we're going to pay about as much or as little more than we're going to take. So the membership fee for that club will be more than useful, which in itself doesn't have to be a tragedy. No one reasonable enters the EU to get paid there, to get some money they don't have. That's not the profit we're going to get there, absolutely certain. In some ways, we will pay for whatever we receive and what we take, which is just. But in this process, we will learn something and become better than we are today, and that is just. The problems that are highlighted in these reports are, above all, the problems of the organization, so you can call it some capacity administrative or whatever, the problem of organisation and the problem of people. We don't have enough good people who could fake projects, design them according to EU rules, and these rules are very complicated but not stupid. So we don't have people. I am an observer in the EU Parliament here for the last few months, and I can tell you that I've met some people there our boys and girls who work there on some scholarships of a month and a half, or are just looking for a place like that, young people who have finished their studies both with us and abroad, speak competently two, three languages, deal with these jobs, and offer observers there for future assistants if we are chosen in the elections. They're people who will, they can and they know. Why didn't the former government use them? Why isn't the current government using them? Why isn't he detecting them? I met a boy he recommended there for a scholarship from the University of Rijeka, who is here, not directly in politics, but he's got some political ties, why such a boy and five such guys from the University of Rijeka and girls wouldn't find on a team that the European Integration Ministry would hire for such jobs. There are people who know, there are people who can but our beautiful custom of party selection leads to the fact that in principle people are in the wrong places. The result is slowness. One of the key things that Croatian diplomacy and the Croatian state should now insist on during this period is the application of the N plus 3 principle, so that we have the right to use the funds that we get for three years, rather than the reduced deadlines that should now turn out. The European administration is opposed to this at the moment because it is insinuating some of their plans, but I think we should insist on that because we will also be left without the money that we are granted. The European administration is, in principle, complicated crazy. But it's not complicated to mean, and it's even less complicated to corruption. So if they accept the rules of the game if you master the rules of the game that are standing there and which are written, then you will certainly be able to function normally in that system. The situation is more complex at present as two camps, a camp of cohesion and a camp of better spending conflict in both the EU and the Commission, and especially in the Council. In the cohesion camp, it is mostly not all those who insist on social unity in Europe and those who have fewer. In a camp of better spending there are these northern countries that have more and which are less interested in these issues. The situation in the European Parliament has actually been heated up and there are already rough comments, comments that we don't even hear in this House, comments about what we are going to do in the north, and a lot of savings, so that those sloths in the Western Balkans or in the Mediterranean can spend as much in the sun as they want. Here are the sentences, a quote from yesterday's right-wing debate, but a discussion in the European Parliament that also outlines a certain level of thinking. The fight is about the 2013 budget and the 7-year budget. Prime Minister Milanovic is in Bruxeles today on the same topic. These countries that insist on so-called. Better suspension, better spending would like to cut the budget by at least 100 billion euros. Of course, if this happens the whole thing collapses, the entire budget of the long-term European collapses. What is being insisted, and yesterday in the European Parliament was the debate of the auditor's report, it is insisted that projects that are approved have a new added value for European needs. This includes, of course, the political value and approval of these projects and the political assessment of whether something is good for the political stability of a particular region, such as ours and the like, and such things should be kept in mind when creating projects. Of course, this is most often about the added new economic value, which is then reflected as the well-being of the region, and the country that applied for projects. Auditors have found that in the past year the percentage of errors increased and two types of errors are cited, one is the polls, one is the frides, so the errors that are unintentional in the steps and mistakes that are actually fraud. There are more and more of these others in all European countries, which means that, it has concerned both the auditors and the European Parliament, because this means that the system of European values from honesty to the accuracy of all of this is slowly collapsing under the pressure of this policy, not savings, because they do not call it a savings policy but a policy of poverty and a policy of lack and lack of politics, asterity policy. But anyway, and this report tells us what happened, it was, we can't change the past into a better past, we used what we knew, and we used the situation we found ourselves in. And one and the other authorities made as much as they could, it could have been quite certain and more, but then the character of both authorities should look quite different, less focused on political well-being and more on the political resemblance, and more on the operationalization of real affairs. Now we have structural funds that carry a lot more money and which are not European accumulation but will also be our accumulation inside, our accumulation one billion and I don't know how much 200 million dollars a year our accumulations turn out. Now if we're not going to spend our battery in a reasonable way and apply to projects to get back what we gave inside, then we're really like one of our top politicians accidentally states and then things happen to us. And we didn't deserve things to happen to us, we're smart enough, we know enough, we have enough capable people, we can create our future, not that it's happening to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21992	Thank you. The Republic has a colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21993	Dear fellow Vuljanić, you have explained nicely to us what the ratios are, in fact, that we should look at the ratio of the money offered, then the agreed and finally the money achieved. We are always presented with this as much as we have agreed and how much we have achieved, not as much as we have been offered. You said we were offered 13.7 billion euros, and we could make 5 billion possible from the funds. It's actually an amazing piece of information. Look, someone's offering you, giving you, and you don't or don't know, and I'd say no first. Which is why, just because you're saying it, we have enough young, smart people who can do it but we don't want their services. So we don't want that money. Which is why, just as you last said, both government and government did as much as they could and couldn't do more because there are no young competent people who would withdraw money from the European Union. And if membership is ours to enter, for membership in the European Union is equal to or greater than the benefits that we will benefit from from European funds, so you just have to imagine what the report on the implementation of the budget will be in a year or two years, then how much less will be if we give more than we will withdraw from European funds. So this is your warning on time, so we need to take seriously what's waiting for us, we need to take this seriously, and we need to react as soon as possible to the fact that we have educated people, the sooner a colleague from the SDP said, those people will go out to us. We have educated people, but we don't want to use them. Which is why, because of their own political interests that are harmful to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21994	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21995	Thank you. I don't share them in young and old, I divide them into smart and capable and those who aren't. It is perfectly certain that now is the right time for us to put our heads together and employ all capacity in positioning in the European Union. Now we get there, we come to an open field. They accept us well believe it or not. Even black rightists and opponents of the European Union and those who would tear it apart accept us normally as colleagues and as civilized Europeans. Let's go and show ourselves on this plan like that, show that we know, we can, and we will. There are people who know that. We meet them every day. Let's not worry about the party quotas and the fact that now our horseman has to go there and not your horseman. There's no front anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21996	It is up to the HDSSB Club and counterpart Igor Čeek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21997	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDSB Club will support the report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2011 as a report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2012. Although we don't think the funds we've withdrawn are enough. In fact, the Republic of Croatia did not make sufficient use of the pre-accession programmes to help the European Union on 31 December 2011 of the total funds located for the first generation of pre-accession funds and IPA funds, all 5 components of the IPA programme, in the 2007 programme year to 2011 amounting to 965 million 709 000 863 euros, the Republic of Croatia agreed 53.5%. Viewing only IPA funds of total aliocated amounts for all 5 components of the 2007-2011 programming year of 668 million 480000 318 euros by the end of last year, the Republic of Croatia only agreed 37.8%. More funds were withdrawn in the period from 1 January to 30 June 2012 but still insufficient. These reports show some progress, however, we believe that these funds are not used enough. So we haven't taken advantage of a good part of the opportunity. Local self-government needs greater support from ministries and development agencies because of the needed personnel to design projects and because of the lack of funds needed for these activities. It is therefore necessary, among other things, to provide workshops and other activities in order to include as many people as possible in education on projects co-financed by EU funds. What's our big mistake? So here is the minister of construction who announced free legalisation of agricultural facilities so that we are just ready to join the EU. It has been shown to be very poor use of funds behind the IPARD programme. Because 90% of agricultural producers carry out their activities in illegal facilities, and that is one of the main reasons why the IPARD programme is small. I was talking about free legalization, but when it's all on paper, it doesn't seem like it. So it turns out that the legalisation of one cost from 350m2 to a rude 10,000 euros. That Slavonic peasant doesn't have the means, he can't finance it. So it takes the ministry to make some kind of consensus to allow these Slavonic peasants some kind of real, real, free legalization. We all said we had a weak administrative capacity and a lack of projects. We do not have our own capital and the only salvation we are currently seeing is EU funds. But what interests me most is how small local communities will make use of these projects and how they will succeed in withdrawing those funds from the EU. We must work to educate our staff, but the state if, with the best austerity measures, it cuts resources to help develop these projects, surely we will not be able to withdraw certain funds from the EU and we will be witnesses of what will happen to us in 2013. We are all aware that we must pay a billion and 700 million kuna EU membership fees. It's about that, that's the amount we'll pay. As far as we're gonna be able to get those funds out, I'm not sure. I hope it's a success. There is no need to look at political belongings. We must all become Europeans, not look at HDZ or SDP, all of us must act together to strengthen these capacities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21998	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that in accordance with Rule 207 of the second Rules of Procedure, the time has expired at 11.00 a.m. for the application of the 10-minute hearing. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line is my colleague, Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u21999	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's the reading of this report I have to be honest that I haven't had too much experience with pre-accession funds, but it's more clear to me that it's a very complex mechanism of functioning and that behind all these projects that are extremely complex there are a lot of rules, a lot of procedures and that makes them even more demanding but above all praiseworthy. We have heard many times from the Prime Minister, or Vice-President of the Government, that in a very short time the government has increased its usability, i.e. the agreement if I am not mistaken by 20%. I'm a little interested in that, and I think it's also interested in the public, so that's actually why I started to be interested in pre-accession programs and even about funds. And what did I conclude? So, the mechanism of functioning of the pre-accession programme means the way it's being resolved is actually made possible to the government which is good, however, but it only allowed it to take advantage of the period of negotiation and that's the reason for the increase in the rate of bargaining that no one should attribute to themselves as their own merit but simply as one moment when everything that was founded came, even began to be realised in order to say on payment, so on contracts. That's how it's supposed to keep working. As my predecessors have said in some common interest, so without any party or any other claim. So, I have no intention of criticising neither government nor anything but simply think that citizens, or representatives, and above all citizens should be more informed about this whole complex management, or the whole story of European funds. As far as I know a few years ago, a system of education is being organised for civil and public servants, and that is even in some 13 programming units co-financed by the Danish government, so where officials are being educated about financial management in European funds. So this tells us just how complex this area is and how well it would be to pay as much attention to informing citizens. So not only those whose job it is, so from profiled well-known users, but simply to the general public about the complexity of this whole functioning mechanism. So the reason is that it expands the circle of people, the more it knows about it, so structural funds, the cohesion fund for rural development, the social fund, etc. an increased potential for the use of funds. And I think that as it started with the new government that it should, so I should continue to emphasize the word to continue, to negotiate and implement projects in which the previous government may not have withdrawn the funds as much as it could but it has certain merits and it should simply continue to be continued, so to educate people in order to realize and to make use of these funds any better. So we see that the first generation pre-accession programmes successfully ended in a high percentage of payment contracts, so mostly over 90%, and the backbone of this was the current IPA programme, which has 5 components - so, help transition and construction, cross-border cooperation, regional development, human potential development and rural development. Each component has its own legality in operation. In each component we have different types of contracts, service contracts, grant contracts, job contracts, procurement contracts, and I have to admit that for laymen, so for people who don't know that this thing is already well complicated, that it's just hard to follow. And in the end, it becomes purely lay that there are three basic stages in the development of these projects. So there's planning projects that include making complete documentation, negotiating and paying. And that's what it's all about. In other words, there can be no agreement without a plan, so without the competition, the basis of which we will receive applications that will be processed afterwards. And after processing these applications, access is then made to select the most qualitative programs that are later agreed upon. A significant increase in the percentage of the contract is observed in the 5th component, i.e. in rural development, i.e. IPARD, and when better promoters are seen there is, in fact, a number of previously prepared, or previously created competitions that have now passed the selection phase and have simply reached the negotiation phase, and this is also one of the reasons why, for example, in these half-years, the number of agreed projects has increased. And I think there's still a need to step it up. No different than education, so simply strengthen the initial structure we already have. Therefore, the structure recognised by the European Commission. And it simply needs to be possible for people who do this to do the best they can and the better they can do the job, so the contracts we have today. Maybe this report we have in front of us could be more appropriate if, apart from the numerical numbers, I didn't know the values, the tables, etc. I don't know what the projects are really about, so let's see where and how all the projects are done in what areas, maybe that would be interesting for the citizens. In this report, therefore, as it's all said, I think it's more important than counting credit, so I remember what I said about the future that prepares us for which pre-accession aid programs are preparing us. So this should be the backbone of these programmes pre-accession they are the backbone for countries that will be able to use structural funds. So the country, or its administration, is preparing a series of strategic implementation documents... structure etc. It is necessary to educate the staff, adopt the management procedure and it is easy to educate end-users through a series of workshops, conferences, seminars on how to apply for funds but also to sensitise the public, i.e. create a better picture of the benefits that we will receive through EU access or through the use of EU funds. The difference between structural funds and the Cohesion Fund is that the specific return on funds, unlike the financing, is in principle an advance on IPA. Therefore, the end-user in a particular project will have to finance the same by means of own funds, and the basis of the reports he will produce will receive a refund on the annual principle or other words will no longer be in future in the Structural Funds there will be no advances on projects, but only the return of already invested funds will come. What's he saying? So IPA serves us in fact to prepare for structural funds to know how to form projects in order to know as easily as possible how to better know the cost of the ratio of benefits so that they can primarily engage so that they know best how to engage their own funds on projects that will simply enable us to recover those funds. It is concluded that end-users of EU funds must be better educated as possible, we need to learn them best to write projects or present ideas but ideas can be excellent, but if they are not presented in a satisfactory form, they will not be able to be negotiated. So before the years of implementation, users must have these resources to cover the financing of the projects they have so far that they will naturally refund simply need a lot of money at the very beginning. And that is why it is crucial to withdraw as much resources as possible, to set the rules for the functioning of certain operational structures precisely in what requires greater flexibility means speed of reaction than we do standard. In other words, the simple state must be faster, more flexible in the bargaining or long-term waitings for approval of all these projects of different levels, hierarchical simple That's not what it's all about. [[Intruder: Please bring the end.]] And finally, we must not forget that funds from funds must be properly channeled in a world that is technologically progressing quickly, we need to know that we can be competitors on the market and in food production and in tourism but I also say that as a country we can... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22000	Thank you very much. You still have a chance to respond to three replicas. First up is counterpart Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So when you talked about education and the need to get as many young people involved in this process as possible, you missed out on saying that the current political set of things demoted young people in some way because those people they found in the ministries who knew the job to do who had been educated enough over the past years were either demoted or some of them had to leave their jobs precisely because of their relationship with them. And I think it's something that's actually a long-term damage to the Republic of Croatia that at any cost should be avoided because people who have followed for years and who know how best to access this problem of applications and all that it takes to withdraw funds, unfortunately, I say they lose their positions and are simply demoted. The problem also opens up and casts out our staff towards the EU institutions, which we also need to take care of, but the EU Commission has also warned on the monitoring report when it talks about administrative capacities that are not sufficient. It can indeed happen to us that the funds available to us during the next financial period, so from 2014 to 2020, where we are expected to withdraw some more than 13 billion euros, in fact, because of the insufficient preparation of all stakeholders in this process, are not used to this extent or to the greatest extent possible, because of the few countries that fully withdraw all the funds that are available to them. One of the good examples is certainly Poland, which was quite able to pull back, however, and those who could not do so. So we need to focus, the government needs to focus on strengthening administrative capacity, not on weakness as it has done lately.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22002	Thank you. The answer to the replica Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22003	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Matusic can agree with you on what you have observed but also on the trail of what my colleague Vukljanic said I think that in this process in this business we must really be all simply forget about the parties just have to be what we always say heads to the cup. So I'm saying that maybe it's not best to just say that in six months, in a miraculous way I don't know how to use 20%. And here it becomes interesting that simply some of the merits of the predecessors this government simply holds while again some things that don't go the way they should accuse the previous government of a bad situation. So in this story, I think we should just forget about it, just all focus on what will bring us better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22004	The next line has Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22005	Dear colleague Milos, you have touched a very important thing, which is what you said you should sensitize the public or inform the citizens. Citizens should be informed about European funds, but citizens should be informed about the European Union, which is, at all, the European Union, which is waiting for us in the European Union. For example, you have now become a member of the Information Committee, so it is our job to discuss it on the board. What HRT should do, and not do, deals with soap opera things,... programmes, and does not fulfil that task that is clearly prescribed by law, which is to be at the service of the public. The public needs to know about the European Union, the public needs to know about European funds, the public has no knowledge through HRT because HRT is not fulfilling its public function. Therefore, the task is new administrations and the new administration will be evaluated within a year and will either pass the test or fail the test right on public content, and that public content you mentioned is very important. The current foreign minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister spoke to me once when we spoke, when the Kukuriku coalition was not in power, she was thrilled with a propaganda film made either by the Romanians or by the Czechs, and she was thrilled, Croatia should do so. The film even won awards, it's a movie about how they took money from Europe's access funds. That's how Croatia should work. That flam even won awards at the film festivals, so he was so good. What the minister did, she forgot about the film, she forgot about HRT, she forgot to inform the citizens about what Europe is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22006	Replication response, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22007	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Vuksic, I absolutely agree with you, and I will repeat once again what I said, so not only those who deal with funds, not only those who are profiled, but the general public simply from the fact that people need to know what these mechanisms are to make use of these funds, in order to simply be more likely. What you're saying about television as a public service, so I'm going to say something now that I might be resented by someone but it's not from yesterday or the day before yesterday or a year ago. I think that's the situation on HRT, so I'm going to dare say it for the last 12 years, and that's why we're, of course, including myself, which is why we're all responsible here. And by profiling personnel not only on television but also in the bodies that are in charge of monitoring, so to control what television is, so to those for whom there is... public television, which presents them. So here, I hope that all together we may achieve another story, so we will focus in another direction that has been so far, and what television so that Croatian public television must be, so service is intended for those who pay dearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22008	And the last line has a colleague Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22009	I agree with the speakers in this debate. I would particularly like to highlight Mr Vuljanić's debate, and I believe that it should be as one of the orientations in the debate, and I have nothing against what Mr Milos said about the need for more public media to insist on and inform the public about the meaning of pre-accession contracts or... which should be used. I'm afraid something's gonna happen to us that I don't want to, but there's one saying that mental circuits change the hardest. Our mental set is cemented, I'm afraid, and that's bread without a distraction. We believe that we may be cheating on the European Union and that we will easily get to the funds and at least return to what we invest, but there is one saying that when it comes to mental circuits that no one blames Drina, no one will, and no one can correct it. It takes a lot of effort, a lot of effort all together without division to insist on the best approaches and to inform the public what is important, and this is the public television that citizens pay, it is still important to restructure administrations and employees in administrations and self-government, regions, to have them educated and to be able to make such programmes that will pass the commission and where Croatia will benefit more than harm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22010	Replication response, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22011	Thank you very much. So here's Mr. Grubisic, so what you said on the trail of what Mr. Vuksic was saying, I can only agree with that, so the public, or that the media, so public television, radio and other national houses have to talk as much about it as possible, have to sensitize people as possible, so explain to them what it is and how we can simply help ourselves. And in doing so, I will return to the replica of Mr Vuksic and Mrs Pusic again, and I think we do not have to slave with anyone's examples, either Poland or the Czech Republic, we are simply not the same even though we are alike by mentality and everything else. So Poland is a country of 80 million inhabitants, their one dukedom or as it is already called is three times bigger than Croatia and we simply cannot compete with them at all but the same as in the region, so we cannot escape from our neighbours, but we must use what we have and offer it as, I will dare say as brand to everyone and live from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22012	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Daniel Mondekar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22013	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State. This is a personal close question to me, the issue of EU funds and the use of them in the Republic of Croatia, but this is also a very important professional issue. It's an administrative question. After all, it is also a business issue, a matter of preparation for the single labour market that we and our businesses will be taking part in in a year and that is a political issue. In this case it is a first-class political issue and in this House it has been so understood for the past few years and we have indeed had extremely interesting discussions when this point came to the agenda. It is an extremely important political issue at the level not only of Croatia but of the entire European Union. The debate that is now going on around the 2014-20 budget, which is being led around as they say the indicative amount of one trillion euros, is an important administration in those small things whether 1.6 billion euros from here will be, whether 2 billion from one item to another, because the key question is whether it will be from cohesion elsewhere. And that's the debate that's being held right now. That's why we split into two friends' clubs for better consumption, which the media calls, though not fair to European starches and friends of cohesion. Because it is important to us, it is very important whether the budget will be reduced by 40, 60 or 70 billion euros and whether it will be reduced at the cohesion point. This will reflect on the Republic of Croatia. It's important for us to discuss... This is an important political issue, as taking into account the statistics of the year and GDP growth in certain years our neighbours, Hungarians, have lost significant resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same thing should be considered, because the total calculation of the amount in which Croatia enters is also important for GDP growth in a given statistical period from which it is then calculated by the formula of how much someone will get. An equally important political issue that is now being introduced is the question of, say, connecting European facilitates. Whether the funds that will go to this programme will come out of cohesion again, because if they come out again, they will also partially reject the Croatian amount if our ways of integration are not within the programme itself. So, this first-class political issue has always been the rest. Here in Croatia our experience comes from the use of pre-accession funds most discussed. It comes from the use of the programme on departure, the Community programme, the Union programme, the 7th indicative... program... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Programmes for competitiveness and innovation of the CIP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the Integrated Lifelong Learning Program. So it is the funds that account for tens of billions of euros used at EU level and, of course, require large international partnerships, which is a good school for Croatia. But when we talk about pre-accession programs, the experiences we've gained here, I'm following this debate in the House from that 2007 report. And Parliament and politics are very mature here. We started the fund blockade in 2007 due to problems in the administration, so the administrative capacity issue lasts for 5 years and let's not fool ourselves for as long as there is an EU fund, and as long as there are EU funds, capacity issues will be open. Furthermore, there was a question back then of corruption in use, poor correction of irregularities. We had a fund-raiser. We unblocked, learned a lesson, started doing our job. Here in the Parliament, these debates lasted up to a year and a half ago, so much so as to say hot, politically colored. And then a year and a half ago, we went a little colder. Because up to a year and a half ago, colleagues and colleagues took one component of one financial year and has 5 components, 5 financial years and that component, the national component from the IPA 2007 that was used over 90% was used. Because it's generally said that IPA is 90%. And we've been listening from 92% in this House until about last year. And then came Mr. Joseph... and said no, no, not 26 to 30. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it was a very pleasant surprise when it was finally said how much was being used. But the last government understood the problem. The Employment Action Plan started, some changes started, faster programming was said to touch and go to IPA 2008, IPA 2009. It still bothers us at some point, but the Parliament and the debates in the Assembly have gone colder and more professionally. The EU funds in Croatia are primarily to clarify immediately the preparations for Croatia's EU membership, such as the Structural Funds that come with the money to achieve the EU policy objectives, the policy objectives. Not the money in the air we're going to take, we're going to say here, there, here. There are European policies, there is a European convergence policy, so there is a cohesion fund. There is a strategy called Europe 2020 and there are funds. I'll talk about that in a few minutes. And of course these funds were the first touch of our local self-government units with international funding projects from EU funds. These were the first touches and civil society, our academic community, etc. etc. So, first someone learns and prepares for membership. Now, of course, they gave us great international experience on how to work large projects, and for our entrepreneurs who are often not talked about were a good school, which is the rules of public procurement in which they will participate today a year. Now we come to a year of challenges, and 2013 until 2020 are the year of challenges for Croatia. Where we're going to have human challenges, and I've said that before. The staff issues will always be open, because we will employ another 500 people, and next year with over a thousand IPAs we will absorb by the end and take care of 2013. But it comes in 2014 with a billion and 800, to hire several hundred more. A colleague said well we will have the departure of our employees to the EU institutions next year. It needs to be calculated equally that it needs to be a fluctuation of people. And we cannot ultimately prevent, colleagues and colleagues, someone who may have worked in the state administration one project, two projects, three from going for a senior expert on a similar project in Bosnia or Serbia where no EU country can compete with the salary to give him 500 euros a day as much as there is expertise. So we will always face as long as there are funds we will face a huge fluctuation of people who will leave the public sector, perhaps eventually return to the public, etc. It's just something we have to face. The second challenge is financial because there are no projects without finance. As we will have to give in the EU our membership fee, we will have to pre-finance, co-finance and when you combine the personnel challenge with the financial you will actually be the question of filling the project... And that's what matters to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know that next year we will have HBOR measures, I know that the state will have a co-financing fund for projects again so that we can take it out on our backs next year. And of course that's still a political challenge because we haven't talked in this House, but the big political challenge is the question of negotiating M plus 2, M plus 3. We know we're using M plus 3 so far. What kind of delays are we gonna make for M plus 2 is? Certainly not all seven years of the financial period. And we also need to prepare ourselves for this as we need to politically prepare for Europe 20/20 strategies to enter environmental and environmental protection, enter energy, enter science, enter the labour market it enters a whole series of policies from everyday life in our Croatia, which means that this will be both a huge financial effort for both the budget and the use of EU funds to achieve all the objectives of Croatia. So that's a key political issue. And the success we've been talking about here for the last four years in the Parliament has always been a formula that can only be successful with a single military term to say general mobilization. The state, units of local self-government, the civil sector, the academic community, the private sector, the state institutions to make every possible involvement, to make as much use of the funds as possible because it is 2016 which will then show how much Croatia will be able to do. When our last year of IPA comes, the last year from 2013 and comes to us in 2014. More than 2 billion euros and a few billion euros in that year will show how much Croatia has finished and how successfully it will use the funds. I am convinced that with action plans, with co-financing, with capacity-building, we want to succeed and we need to make it clear who the winners are. The winners are not parliamentary representatives, the winners are not politicians, but they will be provided that we do our job well by the agricultural entrepreneurs of the local self-government unit that a whole series of their infrastructures can solve, the labour market certainly, our entrepreneurs, our academic community. For them, and we as politicians must give maximum pain in this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22014	Thank you very much. Replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22015	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Certainly, a colleague is a fundamental political issue that is currently happening in the EU that should be interested in the Croatian public. The multiannual financial framework is issue number 1 in the EU and should be safe among the priority topics in Croatian society, but it is not, unfortunately, except that Croatian society follows what happens at these meetings from the outset. But don't think that by hiring 500 new people, you'll solve the problem of administrative capacity. You can't get new jobs by people who don't have practice in this, who don't even know what they need to meet with, you can't even meet in a year, two or three, and you can't even solve the problem of administrative capacity. It's been working for years. Therefore, there should be one continuity of people who know the job. The other thing is to send a very clear message to the public. Of course, the most useful will be the ones you mentioned. So, both farmers and local self-government units, the entire social infrastructure can be financed, health homes, sports halls, all of what we all have to do with everyday life can be financed naturally from EU funds. And of course it's a huge asset to be able to get away with. And your self-thanks that 20% increased the bargaining. It increased on the basis that two or three or four years ago you started the procedure, so someone had to obtain a building permit. And you know what it takes to get you right? So not the local self-government units since 1.01 this year when you came into power began to work and apply for these funds. It was done a few years ago. It's the result of years of work, that's what it's all about. That's why he said, fellow Milas said well, we have no reason now for any self-gratitude we should all really sit together and discover the problems that are waiting for us, and we have huge problems waiting for us. With the employment of 500 people, you will not be able to withdraw the billions of euros available to us. Indeed, the entire community, first of all the university, needs to be involved very actively in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22016	Thank you very much. Time's up. The next line has... You didn't pick up the plate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22017	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's a colleague of Mondekar you pointed out exactly how the system should be improved. I would add that it is extremely important, and that is also the role of the Parliament, to prevent mistakes that will reverse and what already exists. In particular, the European Commission report mentions the need to speed up the accreditation of the Agency for Direct Payments in Agriculture. You yourself mentioned how important this is for farmers. The report was published on October 10th, a day later on October 11th, the government is going to amend the rules of the agricultural aid law. And that was the Parliament a week later and voted in the votes of the ruling majority. To make it clear that at least two provisions in these changes are contrary to what Croatia negotiated during the negotiations, and there are problems that have not only prevented the acceleration of the accreditation process but slowed down. So, with the improvement of the system, we need to prevent the mistakes that this system will reverse and bring us back and actually waste our time, which is the most important thing to prevent us from coming to a situation where we will lose the opportunity to withdraw funds from the EU funds. And that's where we have to concentrate a lot more.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22018	The answer to the replica of Daniel Monedekhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22019	Thank you very much. So I'm aware agriculture is a big problem and the issue of accreditation of agriculture has partly slowed down and the problems have been seen and they will surely have to be resolved, no debate. Even in this sector, employment even immediately started to connect on the subject, you're right. Employment of new people who have no experience will take some time. There is a key thing to negotiate... /The speaker speaks English./... which is in the process. For those best to get extra money through EU funds to stay in the system. Mathematics and statistics are European clear one to eight, one expert with experience in funds 8 new will learn to do business through the implementation of a single project. ...is that one is very important to be motivated and I know that this will be done with the EU commission to end up at the end of the day you have started negotiations it will continue because it will later be completed. We'll have experts to teach new people. The problem here was that the slow lesson learned was that the lesson should be learned to do it at all and now we have what is called... /The speaker speaks English./... to get to the point of running evenly. It'll be a hard job, I'm sure by 2016 he'll be done. And the last thing I think we all agree with is that the funds have been miscommunicating. The EU was communicating so that the funds were acronymally communicating that we were told here in the Parliament when we voted on Croatia's entry agreement in the use of the CIP programme not one single information in Croatian about the CIP existed until that moment. So I think we're some things even with our heads no matter what we do. There you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22020	And the last replica of my colleague, Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22021	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Mondekar here is precisely on the trail of what you mentioned in the reply to the replica, and I hope you will agree with me that pre-accession policy has become one of the most important EU policies in view of the number of countries participating in pre-accession assistance instruments funds. So here's one more question, I don't know if you'll agree with him. I think that, therefore, experts working on projects in pre-accession aid instruments so that they can become a Croatian export brand, so that they can be even better than EU experts because the EU did not have an IPA programme that could in the countries of the environment and even beyond, it is precisely those that will give them our experience and those with their work could be an export brand that will help them, but above all, I think that could strengthen Croatia's political position in the environment in which we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22022	The answer to Daniel Mondekar's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22023	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, not to agree, but I can tell you that this is what this is about and I am personally very interested in it. Next year, Croatia as the 28th EU member becomes the main bridge towards the region and that is what it is. Already, much of the projects are being done across borders by de facto Croatia and neighbouring countries. I'm telling you now that one of the best things we can offer in the region is that social capital. It's social capital. And I argue that Croatia can become a leader in the region and it wants to become because of the experience and knowledge that some of our units of local self-government and some companies can be sold to be realistic for serious money in Bosnia and Herzegovina in Montenegro, Macedonia, Moldova and, in fact, for information that I have several companies and several civil society organisations are already doing and have become large social capital exporters in the region and I think it is another one of those niches that Croatia has in the future. With the good question you have raised, Croatia will have to do its own work in order to regulate the consulting and lobbying market and within the borders of its country. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22024	We're continuing an individual debate. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22025	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. EU enlargement policy is one of the topics that is constantly repeated at the plenary sessions held by the Committee in Brussels. Here yesterday and the day before yesterday there were also conversations about it, so Turkey, Israel, Moldova, as Mondekar said, was mentioned, so I don't understand anything from his speech, which is social capital. I don't know there's social capital. He's either a state or a private and social one, I guess, from the old days before the '90s. But I didn't want to talk about it alone. I wanted to talk about the human resources you've discussed so nicely that we can be exporters of knowledge, and in connection with the use of pre-accession and access funds in our region. So I don't understand how this government that sees you and her representative are, in some sense, calling for a consulting firm to sell the Croatian Post Bank, or Croatia's insurance or to grant concessions or, as Croatian highways are said to be fiscalized. So we will give the money, this government will give the money to consulting companies so they have the right to contact foreign consulting companies and tens of millions of euros in order to establish the rules of the game in the sale of these important state-owned companies, so state-owned Croatian postal banks, Croatian insurance and Croatian highways. And now we're talking about the existence of these civil society associations or initiatives that will export our mind to withdraw from pre-accession and accessible later funds. But Europe will not expand until 2020 so that I tell you right away that it is clear to you, and it is said yesterday at a plenary session in Strasbourg that no new country is expected to join by 2020 so that there are gentlemen from our neighbourhood, Serbia, Albania, that it is clear to them that this is how it is concluded at the plenary session in Strasbourg. When we talk about these human challenges as you say, and then the financial challenges, then I have to say that there is this cohesion group of countries, 14 of them are essentially just a little south of those who, in most cases, are money lenders in these funds. And it was mentioned yesterday at a plenary session of the Greek case, so it's not about Europe helping Greece heal its banks, but about the useful use of cohesion, structural funds in Greece. Here's an example. In Portugal, which has withdrawn funds for its infrastructure, a parallel highway has been created for highways. So one is useless, someone's driving this one, someone's connecting two in the same direction, I'm not going to say which two cities, it's made nearby. Thus, the European taxpayers' resources have been completely spent needlessly. Now, with us almost all cities, larger cities, counties have regional development agencies or development agencies or as it is called in Slavonski Brod, the Center for Technological Development has various names. The Ministry and Mr. Pugliz also intends to give some kind of a call for a competition that will also be awarded by consulting companies to write projects, so I wonder what regional development agencies will do then, people who have been writing projects for years and withdrawing funds. Here is an example of Osijek-Baranja County which has withdrawn 100m euros from pre-accession funds and is the best in the Republic of Croatia. If we're going to give some competition to those who are always writing about it, and these are people from the European Union who know the rules and regulations,...it's supposed to be better than many of our own, then what we're going to get. We will pay the projects to these consulting companies as we pay tens of millions of euros to the company that will sell Croatia's insurance and HPB and HAC. That's what this is about. And those 500 you say will be employed in the services, the administration of the European Union, and my God, every country has them there and it is good to have them and it is good to get information because they are at the source and all those who come there and, starting with our mission there, we always get more information. A man and a donkey know more than I'm a man as they say. However, while you are here, I can take advantage of the opportunity or opportunity to look back on what is particularly painful for us in Slavonia. Namely, first in 2011 and 2012 were so-called the representative year when the situation in agriculture was demonstrated, the situation in agricultural facilities, the legalisation of agricultural facilities through which these farmers could then write withdrawal projects. Your government has made it very difficult to legalize this way by charging how the Czech Republic has said great money to people to legalize their pigsty, not to say chicken, farm or anything. You didn't have any interest in the government of the former HDZ when we wanted to propose the Law on the Legalisation of Agricultural Objects with some kind of saying the minimum fees a farmer could bear. Unfortunately, we will enter the European Union with data that are devastating for our agriculture and that is your responsibility and that of the former government and these current governments. So I remind you of your doctoral dissertation, Mr. Pugliz, which was written in 2009, and its title is "Climates of Regional Development and Regional Inequality in the Republic of Croatia", and in Split 2009 you have a research of regional development in the new members of the European Union. This new division of yours, so-called. Division, the statistical division in two regions is completely contrary to your doctoral dissertation and it is quite clear that regardless of the amount of knowledge and the number of project managers, this is what Mr. Mondekar is going to do. So it's about forming a group of project managers in Croatia who know how to write projects. And what government has worked on so far? Who, who? There aren't any, I'm telling these regional agencies here and there. And as for this doctoral dissertation of yours, it is clear to you and to us that just like this statistical division of the Republic of Croatia, and precisely for the reasons you wrote in your doctoral dissertation on the inequality of regional development, inequality in Croatia, Slavonia and Baranja and Srem, there will be an even greater difference in the quality of life, in everything that the arguments of one region's economic development are compared to another. There will be an even greater difference between central Croatia, Zagreb and the surroundings and Slavonia and Baranja. You cited these arguments in your doctoral dissertation, and then quite the contrary, you made a decision to divide the two statistical NUC regions into continental and I don't know what kind of coastal or what it's called, Adriatic Croatia. About what Mr. Stier insisted on at the Agriculture Payments Agency, so that's what. Eleventh silent condition. He's not in Stefan Fulle's report about it yesterday at the parliament in Strasbourg, but that paying agency has to live, it has to work, not only is the basic agency on paper, which is very important for me to say trade and all the financial actions that are related to agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22026	Thank you very much. You'll get a chance through the replicas. Daniel Mondekar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22027	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, here are just a few answers and a few information. So, first of all, social capital. As a society, as citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we also produce something that is not very measurable only in kunas. We produce other values, we produce other knowledge, some other experience. Which is ultimately produced by volunteers who volunteer in nursing homes. On the subject of the EU programme, when you are told the amount of social capital, it is primarily the export experience gained here through, for example, reforms, such as modernisation or reform of our judiciary or the fight against corruption. So what can ultimately be sold, but in itself is a value that is not at the very beginning of the money. It's another thing. When you mentioned the EU's expansion that I agree with you. I think we all agree here that EU enlargement and further enlargement will take a little longer now. But the funds won't stop, EU funds will move on throughout the region. Croatia will also have an obligation under some programmes to participate in these programmes with other countries here in the region, and in others, I will now dare say this way we would be stupid if in a whole other set of funds and competitions would not participate with fresh knowledge, fresh experience especially where a partner and EU member states are required. Well, we did it in a year. So maybe the expansion will be challenged, but the programs will continue. And I don't see any reason either. And we have to help, we have to help. I want to say go mass projects in BiH where our experience will be transferred to Bosnia. Furthermore, so is Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia. Furthermore, with new funds, respected colleagues and new ones, I think my colleague Puljiz will tell me, and new funds and new rules of the regional development agency lose commercial service and become a body of supervision, supervision and control. So, it's just that a fellow prime minister may say better, but it's about a necessary change in the functioning of the agencies themselves. And in the end, I will not question the group of consultants. [[Thank you very much.]] That's what happened with us under the influence of the market. There are groups, there are groups, good groups of consultants And clusters. [[Intruder Zgrebec: A colleague of Mondekar finish.]] But Croatia must generally regulate that market yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22028	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22029	Thank you very much. Comrade Mondekar, you've replicated it and without the replica, in fact. We generally agree on everything except that I still won't understand what social capital is, I don't know if it's explained in the early papers of Karl Marks. And volunteers, volunteers are our wealth. They're our wealth, but it's not social capital. Capital as capital is something else entirely. As far as funds are concerned, it is true that they will continue to be offered on the table, especially for cross-border cooperation with countries that remain outside not only Schengen but also outside EU countries. And by that, some of our counties have done a great job right now, and I hope that they will also work in future jobs. So, for example, if the County of the Ship-Posavina were to make an effort, including the state of Croatia as your minister, Zmajlović, who acknowledges incompetence as Cacic, so if they tried to solve the filters in the Bosnian Brod refinery as a cross-border project, it would be just as great. Unfortunately, none of you can think of that as a problem. But you admit to being powerless. Zmajlovic says he can't, it's a state. So why are there cross-border projects? And Cacic admits that he has no idea about the sale of HPB but must seek a consulting company and give it 30m euros or how many 30m kunas. Can't experts in the Government of the Republic of Croatia do that, in ministries etc. They don't know anything about it, they have no idea, so it takes a consulting company to make money. We know all about how it's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22030	The replica has Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22031	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, for the sake of correct reporting, what is actually happening in the European Parliament, a colleague should clearly say that we hear a lot in the debates, but the most important thing is that they bring in the documents that are being adopted. So is what you were saying about expansion. In fact, the EU has not given up enlargement. It will indeed be difficult for all countries that go after Croatia. Because if the accession process of Croatia lasted here 8 years will be in 2013, then it is quite clear that under even stricter conditions the next one will probably last longer. But that enlargement policy remains alive. One of the main policies. When you spoke about financing, you specifically said 30 million kuna that the Croatian State would give to consultants. On the other hand, for consultants for the sale of highways, Croatia insurance and the Croatian Post Bank. On the other hand, unfortunately today we have a situation that the Croatian State, the Ministry of Health, is taking away money from parents of children suffering from diabetes. As an expert, you'll know what that means. It also takes money away from them in a way that they have to work full - time because these children are reportedly able to take care of themselves. You know exactly what a child with diabetes has to do with his demands and how many parents have to follow him. Unfortunately, since 1.1 this year, the policies of the Ministry of Health through the HZZ are such that these parents are deprived of these funds and are deprived of their ability to follow those children, while at the same time, as you say, they throw themselves away with money and give money to consultants for sale, in fact, Croatian silver.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22032	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22033	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm really sorry about this information for kids who are suffering from what's-his-name. Type 1 diabetes because it is juvenile or childhood diabetes and for problems parents have with children who suffer from diabetes. But that first part I was talking about is that I didn't say there was no enlargement. No, the EU's policy basically has a further expansion or, as the enlargément says, so to speak. Therefore, but it is also said, both decided by Barroso and therefore by the European Commission and Parliament, that no one will be able to complete the negotiations or join the EU before 2020. ... Well, the conditions will be far, far stricter. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's getting tighter and tighter. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22034	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22035	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I'm glad you mentioned the area of agriculture because it's kind of getting the impression from the discussions of certain colleagues that in agriculture there are inconspicuous opportunities, that farmers will get this, get it. And I say responsibly if this trend continues that farmers will not welcome the large majority of the CAP and farmers to enter agriculture. Every day we can figure out how much data we want, how many OPGs are going down, how much milk production has fallen. But I'm sorry that you're one... Equality of relations with farmers of the current and past government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is incorrect, my colleague Grubisic, that after the efforts that have been made in the past, increased production of milk, meat and everything we bear witness to this year, these disastrous devastating results. So, the decline of the OPG, the decline of milk production, etc. And on Tuesday, you'll see what happens next. 500 million has been reduced even for the area of agriculture. So now it's working on such a condition that... the efforts made and the area of agriculture are negotiated well-quota in some way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But now to be competitive now these unfortunately farmers will not have the opportunity to simply welcome, let alone apply and take advantage of certain opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22036	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22037	Thank you very much. Can't it just be a little quiet if it's okay? So, fellow Milinkovic, I agree with you that from year to year farmers are getting worse, that's correct. I was talking about the Law on the Legalisation of Agricultural Objects, which in May last year, the HDSSB Club wanted to refer to the parliamentary procedure and you refused. And that's what we asked for in a hurry, and you turned it down as a HDZ club and it didn't go into the parliamentary procedure. Furthermore, if we have a quote from the first president or former prime minister of the government that peasants are parasites, what can a peasant expect from one who thinks so of the Croatian peasant? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22038	Next replica and respected representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22039	Mr. President, dear colleague Grubisic, I am pleased that you have asked the question of legalisation of objects and not to experience it in Slavonia and other parts of the Republic of Croatia that the only protectors of Croatian villages are... the economies only you from your club. In the legalisation of objects in agriculture, it is very important that those economies that do not legalise will not be able to achieve incentives. In this delicate law, it is very important to maintain one righteousness toward those family economies that built their facilities with perfectly correct documents. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has arranged this law so that all, all family economies throughout the Republic of Croatia can solve these problems on very favourable terms. I'm asking you here in those units of local self-government where you're participating in power and where do you have the authority to do what you've done to facilitate these conditions? Here all your stories come that you should pay the government or someone else, and there in those units of local self-government where these units of local self-government might be included there you are not. So please answer that question as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22040	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22041	President of the Assembly, dear colleague, I hope that and thank God I didn't have to ask you to have the HDSSB club and the HDSSB representatives talk and talk about agriculture here. So you would deny us the right to be democratic. So here you are wondering how the HDSSB Club is talking about, and what will the HDSB Club be talking about first than agriculture and farmers? And that this guy is a peasant parasite, so I didn't say that. That's what I said. It's your leaders or the head of your party. So, for nothing, you can't get rid of it. And when you talk about what you said about what the Osijek-Baranja County is the only one in which the HDSSB behaves as executive authority, then you should know much better than I do because you live in Osijek-Baranja County even though you went to the V-election unit, so in Slavonsko-brodsko and Vukovar-sponsored dishes. So ask Mr. Šišljagić and Mr. Kraljnik the mayor how much Osijek-Baranja County has invested in agriculture unlike all other counties in the Republic of Croatia. And you know it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22042	Thank you very much. ... Don't, don't, don't, [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22043	We put the law in the process, you didn't accept it. Neither you, the SDP and HNS club, nor the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22044	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22045	You're both the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22046	You are not elected to the Parliament to lead the polemics, but to address the citizens and all MPs. Please respect that circumstance. Now the final word of the government's respected deputy minister, Yaksha Pugliz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22047	Honored President-in-Office of the Honorable Representatives and Representatives. Here I have to stress the satisfaction of, above all, the interest that this topic raises, I think that for the success of this whole story, this interest and understanding, understanding at all levels will be important. We are still struggling with understanding at the highest level and understanding at those lower local and regional levels in the importance of this whole problem. So of course this financial aspect is very important. We have become aware of all these figures, so Croatia has one great opportunity to launch its economic development through EU funds. And we really need to be fully aware of what that means. We should be aware that the EU fund money will, in fact, be a key source of funding for all public investment in the Republic of Croatia, that largely private investment will contribute from EU funds, that Croatian science will build on its development on EU funds and that we should all adapt accordingly. This also means that we are talking about a local and regional level that is absolutely essential to us, that we need to think in such a way now, that we need to plan the budgets now in a way that will be an acceptive to the fact that the EU funds are the key source, and if we are to prepare that certain funds are also needed. Of course, in a situation where the fiscal capacities of local units are as they are, we always hear the argument on the other hand that there are not enough resources. There is no but our advice from the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds is well searched all your budgets, any kuna that can be singled out in the preparation of projects is the best way and then will be paid off. I think there were a lot of MPs who really put the right story in the long-term framework. This is a long story. Today we are preparing for projects 2015, 2016. I have to mention one thing, when I was talking about 600 million euros in the project portfolio, I was only talking about projects in the portfolio of the Ministry of Regional Development. The portfolio, which is being prepared in total at the level of all ministries, will be known soon because we are preparing a list of priority projects with clearly indicated start-up deadlines and when it will be clear to everyone where we are at the moment. Pre-accession funds have indeed been a playground and have been financially, but very important, because of knowledge acquisitions and experience at the central level, especially at local and regional level. Cross-border programmes in financial terms are almost insignificant and at the same time they have been key programmes that have contributed to strengthening the capacity of local and regional self-government especially because they have had very little in certain time periods of choice of programmes that can compete. What we are doing now in the ministry is we are trying as much as possible to invest in the preparation of projects together with our partners at local level. The county development agencies mentioned are our first partners. We call them and recognize the regional coordinators, the programs we design, design along with them and they are and will remain our partners. Of course, there are certain things that need to be regulated about and relations to projects in the sense that commercial things are done in a commercial way by commercial institutions, and what is of public interest primarily should be done by public institutions. I said how much of it we started with educational activities, we're going to invest further because it's the key. The state administration, public administration, neither at central nor local level is prepared enough to learn the project approach required by EU funds. It is therefore very important to invest as much resources in education as possible. We secure them, but there must still be will on the other side. Experience from this year's programme has been said where certain counties have not even offered enough funding projects from EU funds, they have not used the quotas at their disposal, so this must not happen, especially when it comes to such small amounts. When I enter, we will have a much more favourable situation in terms of funding the possibility of funding education, the possibility of funding the salaries of people working on EU funds projects. So we have to respect and the general financial moment of the Republic of Croatia is what it is, it's really not good, it's not easy to allocate funds for 10 additional people, let alone 232 people as far as we've identified it to be necessary. However, it is necessary for the Croatian government to decide so that employment goes. We will have a certain capacity at national level, however, this flow of people must be absolutely all the time such that everything that comes out of the system must be compensated by the entry of new people who will need some time. We are taking care of this because we are also talking about 500 new people because we absolutely recognise the potential importance of the problem, and through a significant number of people and systems dealing with EU funds end up in Brussels we do not see it as a problem so much because these same people will benefit Croatia and Brussels. All people who come out of the state system and end up in the private market will again benefit from the system because they again use their knowledge for EU funds, but we want to prepare ourselves to create a sufficient supply of people to ensure the smooth continuity of Central State affairs. Thank you all for your attention. The problem of statistical regions is mentioned, and I think we have a special topic about this issue soon, so I'll do it in more detail. I'm just going to do it one more time anyway and there's been one big progress big result, the debate itself will show exactly what it's about, but in no way should anyone be threatened or turned to what's most important and the most important and exclusive preparation of projects. This report, which is very exhausting, I really advise you to read it well. Maybe there's one part missing that we'll only be able to have over time, which is the question of effects. So the question of effects and all these investments. The issue of the use of EU funds is not only a question of absorption, but it is not just a question of how much we have managed to talk or how much money has been paid, as examples of EU countries that have withdrawn billions of euros for years, while falling into one of their biggest economic crises. The key question is how much EU funds will help us change this country and its economic structure, its institutions. The Ministry of Regional Development takes it as a special task. So it's not just to look, to hunt where there are permit projects in Croatia, at the same time we encourage everything through our programmes, through education to think very much about the content of the programme, about the content of the projects. It's the only thing that can end up with the success that we all want. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22048	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Now we have a series of replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22049	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I think that the task at your ministry following the reconstruction and transformation of the former ZDURF, which is now linked to the Ministry of Regional Development, is extremely important to identify the priorities of Croatia's strategic development with what is very clear as strategic development and priorities at European Union level. First of all, I think of the coincidence of the debate in the Croatian Parliament yesterday and today's debate on reports with the European Council and we hope to agree on a multiannual financial framework. The document is the main guide for identifying the priorities of the Republic of Croatia. You've seen how strong a group of countries are friends of cohesion. I just came from Rijeka where our friends from Poland are together with several Croatian counties in cooperation with a traffic corridor that would connect Baltic and Adriatic. There'll be more of these projects for sure. I think the link between the central government level and the county level is crucial in identifying the projects. What seems important to me is in the period ahead of us, to use until July 1, 2013. You mentioned education, but that's a follow-up. I know you're organizing county activities, I think there's a lot of work to be done in this regard, so far. I don't think any kind of cross-border project in financial terms is insignificant. They are all significant, and they have all entrenched work at local and regional level and in terms of project management and in terms of making contact with relevant units in other countries, especially neighbouring countries. Croatia will also play an important role as a member of the Union according to our neighbourhood, which will not enjoy EU membership in such a recent perspective. So it seems to me that you try to do the maximum in these few months and continue to strengthen administrative capacity at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22050	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22051	Thank you, Mr. President. I will look back at two things, one of the fiscal capacities of the Republic of Croatia is precisely in this next period. If the HBOR's fiscal capacities are sufficient to monitor these programmes, they are not. And are the same conditions that our banks offer to those who will apply to European Union programmes, to those in the European Union? They're not here, and we're in a subordinate position. The funding of projects must be equated to this extent that simply our businessmen and all those involved in the process of uniting local self-government to have strong financial support for these projects. Look, if we're talking about 13 and something billion, we're talking about 100 billion kunas that should be available to the economy. That's why we're not ready. HBOR is not a sufficiently strong financial institution that can monitor the programme, it should be considered and taken into account. Another matter of education. Include an active academic community, they can simulate through their curricula what awaits us in the future and thus give them the opportunity to be active in preparation during their higher education for the next period ahead and for the future. It's the only way you can get quality people. You will not employ 230 people who have no idea about the European Union, about the funds, have no idea about terminology, about basic terminology when we talk about European funds. You won't have any effect with them. And finally that effect that you were talking about, which is not listed here in the report is extremely important. Today, the European Union does not want to finance projects that have no effect on economic growth and we should say the same. So every project must be designed in a way that strengthens the country's economic growth especially because they want to get out as soon as possible from the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22052	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22053	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's just for these people who listen and watch from the coast and from the island. You say you hire new people, it's one thing to hire these people, the other to hire people with knowledge. So I'm curious about how these people are trained, how these people are going to be trained, whether they're going to need a year or two or three to work, to listen, to watch them get dressed in the preparation of these funds, paperwork. And I'm interested in these local levels, so people who have suggestions, they have ideas, they know what they need, they know everything but paperwork. Do you now have these people who will help them, where they can turn because usually the county says I have no desire or will or money because. And now that the county tells them who they'll turn to and how and how. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22054	Thank you very much. Replication response, deputy deputy minister Jacksa Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22055	Here's a quick reference to the question of funding. So funding is actually one of the key things in the whole story, we're always talking about four key elements. We're talking about programming, we're talking about forming or forming an accredited body together with rules and procedures, we're talking about projects and we're talking about funding. All four of us need to achieve that success. When it comes to financing, we have agreed with HBOR a credit programme for IPA that is absolutely sufficient, so HBOR meets these needs of the IPA programme, and for the following year, 2014 and 2015, we have talks with the European Investment Bank, which will then provide sufficient resources for projects under very favourable conditions in partnership with HBOR. So we're talking about loans with interest from 2 to 4% as regards counterpart Tomasic and education issues, I've already said. Our partners in the regions are regional coordinators, i.e. county development agencies. This year, we have concluded an agreement with them where we finance educational activities in a way that finance the specific educational activities carried out by the county development agencies themselves, which in many cases are the most capacitated bodies at local and regional level with the most experience in using funds, where they then educate those other stakeholders in their county who do not have enough experience. The second part of the programme relating to the financing of external experts for needs and county development agencies and all others in those segments where neither the county development agency has sufficient experience. So it's about a program that's going on, which is currently being implemented, and will continue next year so that you can freely direct all interested people to report first and foremost to regional coordinators. We expect them to give us their thinking, their education needs, which is why we will then design programmes at national level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22056	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22057	Thank you. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, you have said well that you will need to be imported, so to the national level of the county, the local level. However, we have just had this and is the key to the problem that the projects were being prepared and implemented at local and regional level, while at the same time local and regional levels were bypassing, nothing invested in it. You know, regional development agencies are working intensively, but from the state, so from that national level, apart from the controversial some informational developments, there has never been a systematic or systematic approach to help this local and regional level. There are very few units of local self-government that have development teams. This must be acknowledged and it is true that different educations have been organized. But it is also a fact that neither there was sufficient interest by potential students from that education, nor did the organizers of these educations say they would be sufficiently engaged in the motivation of employees of units of local or regional self-government to participate in these educations. And here's another illogicality. The appointment of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia from national level did not take all the necessary steps, there was a lot of inefficientness, I would say intricacies. I will remind myself that the accreditations for decentralised management were also late, not in time, so for example, measures 202 from the IPARD programme for financing local development strategies were only announced at the very end of the IPA programme. I mean, that doesn't make any sense! So it won't be enough hire 500 new people if they're going to teach you who will. [[Intruder Leko: Thank you.]] Well, they must already be top masters in order to train others and help everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22058	Thank you very much. It's a replica, not a ten-minute debate. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22059	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen. So here I am again reporting here, and it is, of course, related to this many times mentioned fact that 500 new people should be hired. The current situation is such that in this year or this half of the year for which this report has been given, we have managed to break down already, a solidly complex system of personnel working on projects for the use of EU funds. They're somewhere in the system I repeat that. Now we're talking again about the new employment of 500 people. At the same time, we're talking about having extra state administrations. So I do not believe that there are enough qualified and educated people in the state services who have even passed the educations that have been organised and that they cannot be included and placed as one team, as one team that can prepare Croatia for the use of the European Funds. And what I'm saying is, today we're talking about the use of funds, so we're talking about the pre-accession ones, we're talking about cross-border cooperation, I don't know what we're talking about, and we're having a situation that we haven't used for a year, or that we've ruined a year of time breaking up agriculture and the village that we won't even be able to use those funds that are negotiated for agriculture. So please give people reorganize these services, put people together, many have been to education. A lot of people worked on it. We have safe territory. Let's not hire again on party coats and we'll have the same story again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22060	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on these reports a little later, and now we're moving on to respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs and representatives to determine the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-23-0.u22061	A report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2011 and a report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2012. The debate on the reports is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2011 is hereby adopted. And two. A report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2012 is hereby adopted. Please make a statement. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 114 votes in favour and 1 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion. This is the end of the vote. I'll see you Tuesday. What date is that? At 9.30 this month at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda, i.e. the item of the agenda of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and the projections for 2014 and 2015. Proposals for financial plans of Croatian Waters, Fund for the Protection of Croatian Roads, State agencies, Agency for Management, etc. I want you to have a nice weekend, get some rest and move the Orni forward. Thank you.
