ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5000	We're moving on to the first point. This is: - The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2011 and the report on audits carried out is submitted by the State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 9. The State Audit Office Act. You have received materials in boxes, and a number of copies of the report on the audit of local, regional (regional) self-government divided by the clubs of representatives. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Defence Committee, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. I ask, does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Mr. Ivan Klešić is the chief state auditor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5001	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and respected MPs. I welcome all of you and, above all, congratulate all of you on the election of MPs in this House of Commons. Under the law, the main state auditor reports to the Croatian Parliament once a year on the work of the Office. The introduction of the provisions on independence and independence into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has given the Office an even more significant role and legal and social authority. In the spirit of the provisions of the Constitution on independence and independence in 2011 a new Law on the State Office for Audit was adopted which was more precise and comprehensively developed provisions on jurisdiction, organisation and mode of operation of the Office. The Office's competence is consistent with international standards, European Union guidelines and good practice for state audit institutions in other developed European countries. The redefined role and position of the State Audit Office are in line with the recommendations and commitments made in the negotiation process of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I stress here that, as in most developed democratic countries and in the Republic of Croatia, the State Audit has no power to take criminal measures or sanctions, nor the coercion mechanisms. This is within the jurisdiction of other state institutions that have more mechanisms to raise the issue of responsibility. The role of the State Audit is dominantly preventive, and audit reports are generators for changing how public funds are used. In addition to objective determination of the facts about the business of the subjects, and giving orders and recommendations to improve their business, the Office's tasks are also to inform the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public about how public funds are available. After the delivery of the report to the Croatian Assembly, the reports are also available to the public via the website of the Office, where everyone can read what he wants to know. It is important to note that, through the publication of individual and annual audit reports, the Office seeks to bring the results of the audits as close as possible to the public. This fills one of the important tasks of the State Audit in all democratic systems, which is to strengthen awareness, and increase accountability and transparency in the use of public funds. In order to carry out operations under its jurisdiction, the Office shall, on its own, adopt an annual programme and a work plan establishing audit entities. The 2011 work programme and the Work Plan cover all entities for which the provisions of the Law on the State Office for Audit and the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates are prescribed an annual audit obligation. The following criteria have been applied for the selection of other audit entities. The first risk assessment, the second financial significance, the third results of the previous audit, and the collection of information on the business of the entities. During this reporting period, the Office carried out 832 audits. The financial audit covers 527 entities, and other entities have been made aware of the financial reports. Public funds of $178 billion have also been audited, of which 160 billion or 90% are related to the budget of the state or local budget. Under the budget, the revenues of the state budget amounted to 137 billion kuna or 86%. The revenues of the City of Zagreb 6.9 billion kuna while the revenues of all other local units amounted to slightly less than 16 billion kuna. In addition to the budgetary resources, the audit procedures cover other public funds amounting to €18.3 billion. It relates to the revenues of non-profit organisations and companies owned mostly by the Republic of Croatia and local units. The audit found that the total debt of the state, I stress here without guarantees at the end of 2010, amounted to €125 billion (408 million 089 thousand 873) total of 94 kuna, of which the long-term debt is 104 billion 689 million 224 million, and of the short-term debt, the vault records 20 billion 718 million 588 million 649 million entire 20 kuna. Together with guarantees paid on the burden of the state budget, the debt amounted to 133 billion and 595 million or exactly 133 billion 594 million 594 million 668 total 96 kuna and a long-term 112 billion 876 million 213 million 019 point 76 kuna and a short-term 20 billion 718 million 588 million 649 total 20 kuna. Counting on guarantees as potential liabilities total debt was 182 billion, 189 million 469 thousand 688 entire 86 billion kuna. The total debt in late 2011 will be known for the completion of the 2011 State budget audit and will be done by the end of May of this year. Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and respected representatives in the 527 financial audits carried out during this reporting period to remove identified irregularities, the Office gave 20935 orders and recommendations. The areas in which the most frequent irregularities have been identified are about the same as earlier years of planning and accounting operations, revenues, expenditure and public procurement. Let me just briefly indicate the most frequent irregularities in these areas. In the context of accounting operations, it continues to refer to a list of assets and liabilities which are not complete, i.e. the list does not cover certain assets and liabilities, and the data in the accounts are not harmonised. Furthermore, it has been observed that there is insufficient attention being paid to the collection of income, i.e. not all legal measures for the collection of claims have been taken. The expenditures are recorded at a time when commitments are met, instead of at the time of the start of the business event, which is why only the expenditures paid and the expenditure obligations of the following year are transferred to the following year. The audit found that expenditure was not carried out in accordance with the intended purposes. Irregularities are also identified in the area of municipal economy expenditure which have a large share in financing public needs at local level. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. The audited entities carried out without public procurement procedures worth €266,5 million. The audit of public procurement procedures covering the operations from planning to realisation most frequently identified the following irregularities: the procurement is not realistically planned in accordance with the real needs, the procurement plan is not in line with the Financial Plan, part of the procurement was carried out without the prescribed procedures or the procedures implemented are not in accordance with the regulations, the negotiation procedure was used without prior publication although the conditions for the application of this type of procurement were not met and certain contracted goods or services were not delivered or delivered in more quantities than agreed. In general, we could say that the largest number of irregularities has been identified in entities where an appropriate internal control system has not been established, and our office has specifically warned for a long time. Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and respected representatives before, in the course and after the audits are carried out, the office shall cooperate with the judicial and state bodies. Cooperation shall include exchanges of documents and reports, answers to requests, applications and submissions, clarifications and participation in organised meetings in relation to the subject-matter of the audit. During this reporting period, documents and reports related to the implementation of actions under the Action Plan are exchanged with the Anti-Corruption Strategy and the implementation of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the non-depreciation of criminal offences from the process of conversion and privatisation. 74 cases have been processed with the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK, 53 cases with the Ministry of Interior Criminal Police and 6 cases with courts. The international cooperation carried out by the office through exchanges of views, experiences and professional literature, training of employees through participation in international meetings, seminars and workshops and programmes is also important. What I'd like to meet you with is office assignments this year. In accordance with the provisions of the State Audit Office Act, the 2008 Strategic Plan In 2012, both the 2012 Work Plan and the 2012 Work Plan set out jobs and tasks in the next reporting period, and these are all planned audits, while increasing the number of efficiency audits that I particularly stress. Next, to implement the measures and activities envisaged by the Action Plan, with the Anti-Corruption Strategy, to carry out continuous education of state auditors, with an emphasis on specialisation for individual areas of audit and then to develop cooperation with the institutions of the state audit of countries under EURO SAIL, INTO SAIL and with a view to improving the quality of the work of our national auditors. I thank you all for your attention. If it's necessary, I'll answer all your questions along with my associates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5002	Thank you very much. Now also, I'd like a little attention, a little attention. So, I didn't say when I talked about working for the next three days that tomorrow after we're done with the eighth point we'll vote on all eight points so we'll vote on Friday, and before that, we'll have a debate on the ratification of the contract. So on Friday, we will only have on the agenda the ratification of the contract and the vote, and on Thursday we will have a vote on all eight points that we will discuss today and tomorrow. Thank you. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's hard to predict. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now you're looking for a little bit impossible, but I'm just saying that's the plan. We'll see how things develop. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? There's no need. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go. On behalf of the Committee on Finance, the chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5003	Dear Mr. President, chief auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues have a good day. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the third session held on 14 February as the parent board Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2011. The opening part you heard from the chief auditor will not, of course, repeat it to you, but I will highlight the part that was at the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The discussion on the committee praised the work of the State Audit Office and was particularly stressed that the State Audit Office has received high marks on its work in the Croatian Parliament. On the basis of the data on the audited entities referred to in the report in question, it can be concluded that most of the audited entities complied with the tasks and recommendations of the State Audit Office from the previous audit period and that the tasks and recommendations were carried out or were carried out by the audited entities. However, it is noted that the State Audit Office must continue to insist on raising the quality of internal control work in most audited entities. It should also continue to impose on audited entities to comply with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, since there are a lot of gaps in public procurement procedures. The possibility of setting sanctions for those audited entities that repeat certain infringements from year to year and do not implement the tasks and recommendations of the State Audit Office should be considered. In the next period, the State Audit Office should make more audits of efficiency and public sector organisations, in particular those assessing the possibility of large savings, an increase in revenue or a reduction in expenditure. The audit of the effectiveness of the audited entities shall provide relevant information on whether audited entities operate economically, effectively, meaningfully in fulfilling their functions and whether they purposely spend taxpayers' money. After the discussion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, he decided to unanimously propose the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2011 and the audit reports are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5004	Thank you very much. The other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first word has on behalf of the Club of Representatives Croatian Labourist Mr Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5005	Dear colleagues and colleagues. For the introduction of just a few data from the abundant material that the State Audit Office gave us this year. So, in the year they built it for 2010. 832 review of supervision, or audit procedures of which 527 audits, 291 audits of the budgets and financial reports of local self-governments and 12 financial reports of extraparliamentary parties. About these 527 audits as the final act of estimating the quality of work of those who controlled, supervised, gave 77 unconditional opinions, which means they found a very good situation that is about 14.5%. 447 conditional opinions are almost 85%, meaning that irregularities were found, failures, smutty that were past the law, but according to their assessment did not affect the results of management or business and three unfavourable opinions, that is the worst assessment of the State Audit. The introduction also said that 2935 orders and recommendations were given in the revision procedure. These orders and recommendations would treat them as aid or an educational measure to responsible persons in institutions or funds or companies that they controlled. This number of orders and recommendations in 2010 is bigger than it was a year earlier, but why it is important I will explain later. 2043 such orders and recommendations from 2009 when they came back to those same 901 were carried out or followed 124 states that in the procedure 1018 or almost 50% of the recommendations and the state audit order had not been carried out. 1018 or, more specifically, 49.8% of orders and recommendations of state audit in these entities were not carried out after a year. What's the warrant and recommendation of a state audit if he doesn't commit anyone? The point and the revisions and, in particular, the debate on their findings in the Parliament, we will only have if we meet, according to me and the position of the Croatian Labour Club, two important facts, three unfavourable findings or opinions. Municipality of Velika Kopanica, children's kindergarten Čakovec and the Zagreb Faculty of Economics. So, of the 527 audits in the municipality of Velika Kopanica, the children's kindergarten Čakovec and the Faculty of Economics Zagreb found such a condition that they could not even give a passing grade. Since I know that the Office of the State Audit in so many proceedings and the completion of the review procedure in such cases, in its findings, reports the State's Attorney's Office, so these cases are in the State's Attorney's Office, we will propose a conclusion on this point and this is our first proposal to request a special report on the actions taken in these three cases in which the State Audit gave an unfavourable opinion. Why? Only when we have received additional information from the State Attorney's Office will we be able to assess not only what happened and why but whether measures have been taken to sanction and punish responsible persons if, at the end of the procedure, it is proven and others that the opinion, in particular, of the State Audit Office, is something that everyone who is subject to the State Audit will be afraid of. I don't know if any of you have gone through or read all 8 thousand pages, if I'm not mistaken that there are 8 thousand pages, I believe it's not, I admit that I'm not all, and what happens when one such important independent body like the state's audit of such significant institutions as the Faculty of Economics is that an unfavourable opinion goes away and that goes away from the media of political debates and we in the Parliament just by adopting this report we'll find that they have received an unfavourable opinion, until a special report by the State's Attorney's Office comes in and I don't know about the fate that happened later. I ask you and I appeal that you accept this conclusion because back 8 years ago we have done and done and proved ourselves good, because on the one hand it has affected the speed of work of the State's Attorney's office, but on the other hand, a more serious understanding of what the State's audit is doing. I suppose they've estimated that in these three entities that they've supervised there are elements of the crime. All these three institutions have public money and they didn't mess with papers or imaginary things but with public money. And that is why the second reason for requesting a special report from the State's Attorney's Office is extremely important. Second block of parole. I focused only on the state budget and the users of the state budget would have to do too much. And when I looked at who was given a conditional opinion for 2010, I came up with a list of how there are some of the users of the state budget and some of the ministries that are subscribers, who have subscribed to conditional opinions. 8 years ago, the list of conditional opinions of the state budget and users is more or less the same. Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Tax Administration, Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Regional Economy, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. As if they had subscribed as they probably have a subscription to Vjesnik, they have subscribed to the Office of State Audit's conditional opinions. We are now discussing this for 2010. Meanwhile, there's been a shift in power. Asking the previous government what she did when she heard and saw these findings is also formally impossible. Asking the current government what they're going to do about these conditional opinions sucks because the first echelon of responsible executives, bosses, deputy assistants, deputy deputies is resolved. They're all other people now. So we're in a strange situation to consider, to read, the responsibility of the former government that hasn't been advertised, which is why our second conclusion would be tied to them. It would say that the Croatian Parliament is in charge of the Government to establish, within a period of 6 months, responsible persons and measures taken with regard to the state budget and users of the state budget where the State Audit found that no recommendations and orders were made in 2009 and found in 2010 for the sake of importance. In 2009, a total of 85 orders and recommendations were issued, collected by them 37, 20 were under way, and not even followed by 28 State Audit orders. How is it possible that in the system of the Ministry of State Budget Users there are people who are not even known who they are, and we have never heard of anyone being sanctioned who did not carry out the order and recommendation of the State Audit. The 28th State Audit order was not carried out, not after one year of re-examination. This government, if you accept our proposal, must determine where it was, who was responsible and who were responsible and sanctioning such behaviour regardless of the rank of the official or official. Otherwise, this job of the Office of State Audit and the business of the debate in the Assembly will turn into a finding of statistics and a finding that the Office of State Audit has been praised for its work for years. So if we praise them for their work and see the weakest points of the systems, which are unfavourable opinions, and on the other hand, the failure to comply with their orders and recommendations, and we just accept it as a fact without taking any additional actions, then we discourage them in their work, because whatever they do is visible and they say nothing is binding. It is therefore also an element of political responsibility for those who manage significant state resources and messages to the Assembly that the recommendations and tasks of the State Audit Office must be carried out. However, if they believe that the State Audit Office is wrong, there is a legal and procedure as to how it is contested or proved that the State Audit does not know how to do its job. But I haven't heard of any such procedure, so any government body subject to review has entered the dispute and won a dispute against the State Audit Office and proved them wrong. And I end up with an appeal and help. We will soon receive reports for 2011 which will again contain the findings of the former authorities. We now have a chance if you now accept these two of our proposals, the conclusion that both the State's Attorney's Office and the State's audit will have a greater reputation among those who oversee and revise and send a clear political message from this Chamber. No one will go unpunished with whom the State Audition says that an unfavorable opinion and no one will go unpunished who does not meet the State Audit's orders and recommendations. These are the objectives of our conclusions, and I ask you to help us all help with the better work of the State Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5006	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5007	Dear President, chief state auditors, colleagues and colleagues. So, on behalf of the HNS Club, our opening position and starting point is of course the independence and independence of the State Audit Office. Another concrete clear fact is that the State audit with slightly less than 300 employees has done one big job, a job in which it has carried out more than 832 audits, especially in the segment of financial audits, audits of financial reports and insight into financial reports, making local self-government what parliamentary or non-parliamentary parties and independent representatives. The report also shows that in terms of efficiency, only two are made of management of public procurement areas – audit efficiency and efficiency. And that's one of the first segments and attitudes of the HNS club that it's too small. Today, independent of independence and independent of the State Audit Office, the State Audit must work and live in the way the citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect, not just politics. The state audit is self-planning, self-determining what and how and who I'm going to say so knock on the door. State audit by law is required only to make a budget report, budget audit by 1 June of each year for the previous one. It can and does not have to accept certain recommendations of the Croatian Parliament, this House of Higher Education, what or how to do or advance or to cover. However, the position of the Croatian People's Party is that, given that the revision in its Foundation includes an evaluation of the effectiveness and economic performance of the activities, other than the legality of the performance of the work, and the assessment of the effectiveness of the objectives of the business or the objectives of certain financial transactions or programmes, it is essential and necessary that efficiency audit be done more frequently, more often, especially in those segments where not only the public recognized the problems in which very large budget money is spent. Is this through agriculture, whether these are the public procurements of Croatian electricity companies, Croatian railways, efficiency and efficiency analysis essential to the Government and this House of the High, which to the public, and what to the efficiency itself. These are the effectiveness and standards of the European Union not only the desire, guidance and attitude of the Croatian People's Party. These are standards that determine and improve the work of the public sector in which the State Audit that we think this job is doing, which they've been doing great so far, just have to expand it further and be proactive right in that segment that today and future time is looking for. The second key item in this report, which is abundant and which is extensive and which is systematic, but of course in this short period on behalf of the club, is difficult to see, or not enough time to analyze, but I also point out the second key item, which is that of a total of 2043. The warrant or recommendation on revisions to 1018 or 49.8% has not been followed. Something's already been said about it. It's bad, it's weak, it's not enough and it's something that the executive authority and this High House also have to react and ensure the conditions, that when a quality review is made that can't happen that this revision is a dead letter on paper without consequences, and that life goes on and that this report is brought and waiting for the next and no one. The proactive policy of the State Audit in efficiency is considered crucial, is crucial not because of the public, but also because of the need for today's quality and executive power, but also for this House to make certain decisions and improve, and for the funds to be used absolutely right. As I said, the Croatian People's Party Club will support this Report with this guidance and the view that efficiency must be introduced continuously into all those segments of consumption especially in the public sector in order to better manage the general good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5008	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5009	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, respected chief state auditors. Allow me to welcome, at the beginning of this debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the sacrificed and dedicated work of the State Audit Office, which during 2011 carried out 527 financial audits, or 18.7% more audits compared to 2010, and which, within the audits carried out, issued 2935th warrants and recommendations, and 43% more than in 2010. As we have heard from colleagues from the HNS and the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the State Audit Report will accept, as it is obvious that the same is the fruit of professional work and that in an exhaustive, precise and complete way it shows the state in which the Republic of Croatia is presently located. However, while we can be commended and commended for the work of the State Audit, what is found in the report must be our concern. The report shows that in 2010 not only did our country continue to do bad business as in previous years but there was a further deterioration. Namely, the number of unconditional opinions, hence the number of those controlled entities that were operating in accordance with the laws and other regulations of the Republic of Croatia, has been reduced from 15.3 to 14.6%. Although it is a small reduction, it points to what the SDP Representatives Club indicated in the presentation a year ago, which is that dogs bark, and caravans pass. Or in our case, the State Audit insists on irregularities without anyone considering it. This view of the Executive Authority according to the findings and instructions of the State Audit is particularly visible from the fact that the controlled entities of 2043 orders and recommendations of the State Audit have acted only on them 901, that they have started to act on them 124 and have not acted in as many as 1018 cases. Therefore, out of 2043 orders and recommendations, entities that violated the laws and regulations of the Republic of Croatia refused to correct their behaviour in 50% of cases. Such a situation must be of concern to us, and it must make us wonder why we are even reviewing when this kind of treatment of controlled entities gives us the impression that no one looks back on the work of the State Audit. This situation was particularly worrying at the level of the state budget and the budgetary users. To clarify, it's about ministries and other central state bodies. Unlike the 2010 Report, which was not a great number of controlled entities at the state level that got unconditionally, therefore a positive opinion fell from 12 to 10. Therefore, out of the controlled ministries and other central authorities, only 10 of them were operating legally. It is particularly concerned that among the subjects who have received a conditional opinion there is again the Tax Administration which is tasked to control whether we citizens of the Republic of Croatia are doing business properly and regularly registering and paying taxes. For example, it was in the Tax Administration during 2010, without the application of the prescribed procurement procedures in one case that services amounting to HRK 99 million were provided. My colleagues listed before me what all ministries were doing against the laws, so there is no need to repeat it, but the fact remains that more than half of the ministries in the former government were operating illegally. The illegality of the work of the central authorities of the state administration is also evident in the event of State guarantees. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that The Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2010 the annual value of new financial guarantees is set at 4 billion and 900 million kuna, and 8 billion and 43 million guarantees have been issued, which is more than allowed for 3 billion and 143 million kuna. The legal situation is unfortunately even worse in local self-government units, regardless of the party's ownership of the local government's leadership. Such a situation is somewhat understandable when it comes to the fact that local self-government units do not have as much professional personnel as they do in the state and state ministries, however, we cannot ignore the fact that they are local self-government units and that they generate non-compliances according to the instructions and guidelines of the state audit. And it certainly has to change. Since my colleagues in individual debates will also look at the findings of the State Audit in certain areas, I will focus on one chapter which we consider particularly problematic. It is clear from the report that almost all entities where the conditional opinion was expressed were in compliance with the rules governing public procurement. Such action is worrying when it comes to the fact that it is precisely public procurement when it is carried out in a legitimate and correct manner the biggest and strongest defenses of corruption, nepotism and all the negative phenomena in our society that we have witnessed in the last 8 years. Therefore, I call on all those involved in this report to make additional efforts in order to get public procurement regulations started. Also, and here I agree with my colleagues from the Croatian Labour Party, since this report is delivered, that is, available to the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia, we think it would be good to be informed how the State's Attorney's Office has acted according to previous reports, that is, how the frequent offenders of the law have been sanctioned, and all how the effort, work, and in particular the means invested in creating these State Audit reports so that all of this would not be just a dead letter on paper. I'm going to close this argument with one message. When a person starts doing a new job, when he starts working, he can learn about how work is done in a way that can study the right and good examples or in a way that can study bad, wrong, and I would be free to say harmful examples. This State Audit report is a textbook of bad practice and a set of examples that the state should not lead. I therefore call on all mayors, mayors and commissioners, all directors and members of the administration, and in particular all ministers and other heads of central administrative bodies to study this report, especially in that section covering their work. If they do so, they will learn how to do things and what mistakes they must not make in their work. They will also learn how to lead the state to the benefit of all, not just some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5010	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5011	Thank you very much. A colleague on behalf of the SDP club said the IRS had not made the purchase of 99 million kuna. Now I am asking the State Audit and the question to all of us how can you conduct a public procurement for a service that only one company in Croatia can do? I'm asking you a question about what's been going on since 01.01 this year because this company is doing business for the IRS again, and the contract expired with 31.12? I don't think it's good to classify some things that just aren't right. Let's get the money to the IRS to build its own IT system and then we won't have to call the competitions because this job can only be done by APIS and no one else can do it in Croatia. And therefore, how can you call a public tender for something that no one else can do? A APIS is a company owned by the City of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia 50-50. I think that's something that's a fact and that fact should be said here, not saying that the IRS has obtained services for 99 million kuna without having called a public tender. That's just not true. Call a public tender, and you know that no one else can contact you on that public tender except APIS is a farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5012	Thank you very much. I now have no right to correct the incorrect allegations, but I have the right to say that the property of APIS is 51% state and 49% city. Thank you. Mrs. Dalic Martin's representative on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5013	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Klesic's chief state auditor, and I would like to be the one to focus my debate on two important points, at least the important points that seem to me related to this report. It's one question of meeting the recommendations. I think the way the audit works and the purpose of the audit in any business entity, whether it's state character or private, that the recommendations of the audit are carried out and that the relevant shortcomings are corrected. And this is the process that is repeated every year, and therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would also advocate that State audit and insist on ensuring that different other mechanisms ensure that the highest degree of respect for the State Audit recommendations is respected because they are focused and are an instrument to improve and regulate procedural treatment and financial and material treatment in the area of public procurement. However, let someone who has been on the other side of the relationship with the State Audit but also relations with private auditors in the private sector, I say that there is one process in which the State Audit report does not say much or doesn't say anything, and it is very important to think about effective treatment and state audits and the work of state auditors, and this is the process of their continuous improvement, the process of their continuous education, so that they can do their job as best and as best as possible. Because the point is to oversee the jobs of several hundred people in the state audits of tens of thousands of people by public enterprises and by the ministries. This is an ambitious task, for it should have different complex and not-so-simple knowledge that needs to be continuously perfected and promoted, in order to minimise the situation of one mentioned by counsel Schuker, which is that some of the recommendations are not practical. It is not feasible in practice to obtain the information system of the tax administration by public procurement unless we have decided to build a new tax system that costs more than tens of millions of kuna and then that public procurement will be made once. Some information and technical services are provided by only one company in the world of IBM and we are looking for public procurement, so I would like to draw your attention to Mr. State Auditors that some of the recommendations that state auditors make sometimes are not possible to implement. Because of the nature of the business, I would not want to reduce the need for recommendations to be implemented in this way, because it is possible and I allow there to be sloppyness by the ministries because the percentage of unimplemented recommendations I would agree with, quite high. But given this, I would suggest and I would like to advocate that the work of the State Audit will improve the aspect that will enable state auditors to take a closer look at the real developments in these ministries, which is through different methods of education, improvement and that is certainly one segment where, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community, they would like to advocate that the state audit office insists on this and extends such activities because they are certainly for the benefit of the office itself, but also very important work it does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5014	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5015	Your Honor, Mr. President, the government's representatives, the state's chief auditors, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Let me first quote this on page 1 where it is said that in this Report the Office has planned 832 audits, and then it is said "financial reports have been made for the State Budget and 23 users of the State Budget, 258 local units, 42 budget users, 55 trading companies owned by the state and local units, 10 non-profit organisations, 11 parliamentary political parties, 4 independent representatives, 5 projects" etc. It is clear that this is a plentiful business, as much as it is a plentiful job testifys that every single unit of local self-government cannot be audited every year, that every company owned by any state, any local self-government, cannot be audited every year, above all, it is one responsible job, it is an ungrateful job, but on the other hand this revision understandably a lot of all of us speak. For example, here on page 3, it is said that the total debt of the state without guarantees at the end of 2010 was recorded at HRK 125.4 billion, out of which the long-term debt of HRK 104.6 billion, the short-term vault records of HRK 20.7 billion, together with guarantees paid on the burden of the state budget, is recorded in the amount of HRK 133.5 billion, with guarantees as potential liabilities, total debt of HRK 182.2 billion. It is not that we do not know what opportunities Croatia is in or what opportunities it inherits. On page 5, the revision of local self-government or units is said that during this reporting period of financial audit in 285 local units, about their financial reports and operations expressed 18 unconditional for three counties, 10 cities, 5 municipalities which were mentioned by a representative of the SDP Club, we received 266 conditional for 18 counties, 112 cities, 137 municipalities, and one unfavourable opinion for the municipality of Velika Kopanica, and then it was said in the total audited income of those 285 local units meant 20 billion kuna. But what I want to look at this particular occasion, what I'm going to talk about a little later, is these audits of companies. It is then said here that during this reporting period the audit covers 55 companies in which the Republic of Croatia or the local unit have majority ownership on the shares of 5 of which are state-owned companies and 50 owned by local units and then states how many unconditional or conditional opinions are given. Now that we're talking about the revision of companies, I'm particularly interested in the revision of Croatian broadcasting. I argue that regardless of the fact that I have been running a court dispute with Croatian Radio Television for three years now that it is the best Croatian television, if anything else is at least the most open, however, the question is now, and they have sued me after a report like this. Do I, as a representative, do you gentlemen as representatives, and in front of us is not just a report from the Croatian Radio Television, but a brother to his brother 822 audits, means whether without fear of one prosecution we can discuss a report by the state auditor, yes or no. Because of the 2009 statement that almost every show can be bought on HRT after a report like this, here's the HRT suing me for 110 thousand kuna, the value of the dispute exceeded 200 thousand kuna. In the State Audit Office's report and I have here on HRT, but I'm not going to say too much right now that the Istrians are saying what they're saying, of course, that the report isn't unconditional as for almost any audited society, and it's not. However, what was also indicative a few days ago by Ms. Sylvia Lux, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, says that HRT is urgently dealing with police, USKOK, State's Attorney's Office, to allow for trade under the table, etc. Now she's not gonna be sued, she's not gonna be sued by the big parties, but they're training strictness on someone else. Now that I'm asking you a question, here's the Constitution to protect you behind this speaker against criminal responsibility for the spoken word, but whether or not we are protected by both responsibilities and material responsibility. Can we talk freely about all these qualifications that there will be no prosecution tomorrow? If we're going to change our Rules of Procedure and I'm going to end this, if I don't know now, we can sort this area out in a way that neither of us here can answer for material responsibility for the pay phone. I think that would make sense, but we'll see what time simply brings. But that's one question I'd say goes beyond the question of this State Audit report. On page 6 of this report, it literally says, here is a kind of opinion towards groups, the subject of the audit is said state budget, budget users, 14 conditional, unfavourable anything, unconditionally 10 opinions. With local self-government, there are only 18 opinions, conditional on 266, in companies we can literally see it all, in these small ones owned by local come units, they were lucky to have as much as 7 unconditional, 43 conditional opinions, etc. However, let us now let television and local self-government and concentrate on these companies. At the end of 1991, 635 thousand workers were involved in the conversion of 556 companies. After 2000, only 248 grand. I guess there are fewer of them today. Okay. Well, it's not okay. It was so, there was war, we lost the ex Yugoslavia market at the time some others were entering the markets what I know about the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, interest were astronomical, inflation to Valentiæ was terrible, etc. However, I am talking about this because in a single statement by Mr. Ivan Klesic, the chief auditor, I also notice the following and literally quote: "Although all officials regularly claim that the state audit did not file criminal charges if auditors suspected that a criminal offence had been committed in the conversion and privatisation of Croatian companies. The main state auditor warns that 178 criminal charges have been filed for some companies, criminal charges have been filed by other authorities, so the review has not repeated them. In all, there were 198 companies for whom criminal charges were filed." And now I can list all these 198 companies here is not that you don't know of the great tourist, Istrian those in tobacco, I don't know, agriculture etc. But mostly I want to point out that particular detail here. The true development was achieved by only 241 companies. I'm afraid these large companies have achieved this development only in policy-making, with some monopoly position on the market, with all possible benefits of state incentives etc., etc. But I'm asking myself if any of these and those 241 companies that have been successful today had any money from those who privatized in '91, '92. these companies. Could anyone have made their own money with about 200, 300, 500, thousands of employees, etc. The moment the average salary of a director was maybe 300 or 500 marks then, let's just not paint. '91, '92. I claim no one could acquire, enter the property of a tourist company that has 5 or 10 hotels, which has 10 or not know how many camps, 500 or more apartments without gentlemen's policy intermediating. It was all a hoax, and today it's all over time, through this syntagm of successful companies trying to beat down, but we all know what's going on. And what would make each of us in this assembly and probably the Croatian public most interested in how in the context of the constitutional provision on the non-deprecated or privatization of this crime will end. Now, nothing. What to say, clearly as other clubs and club IDS will support this audit report. We hope that something will be done here on this point, although I know that I suspect some spectacular results, and what I would really like to begin with is to be regulated in some way, that the spoken word for this speaker cannot follow the material responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5016	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5017	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen from the State Audit Office, the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Every year when I submit a report on the work of the State Audit Office, I actually get to be happy and happy because here we have a comprehensive set of statistics on statistical material from which we can find out, actually the situation in the economy, the economy of the Republic of Croatia. We can also find out individual and state institutions and companies and units of local and regional self-government, we can find out about their business, we can find out about their compliance with the State Audit Office's recommendations, meeting these recommendations compared to last year where irregularities have been observed in particular conditional assessments. We know that according to the INTO SAIL method, there are three or four grades. So unconditional, conditional and unfavourable and abstentioned. This is why this material is interesting and I always find myself happy when I read it, but I don't look forward to it when I find certain units of local self-government and also companies that are from the area where I come from, so I find them in these materials so on this sad page that's just 66. There is only one six more missing for 2010 and an unfavourable opinion for the municipality of Velika Kopanica where irregularities in the internal financial control system were found, and then in accounting business, and in revenues and receipts, expenditure and expenditure, as well as in public procurement. And these conditional opinions, so this is an unfavourable opinion, and these conditional opinions are clearly classified as it literally writes here at the threshold of significance. The threshold of the significance of the irregularities observed, so according to the method that is also to say the international standard is clear that these conditional opinions are actually one I will not say the danger, but these assessments also bear numerous irregularities, which have not reached that threshold of significance. So it's interesting that here, among the ministries that have a conditional opinion, the Ministry of Justice that would paradoxically be that the Ministry of Justice that should be according to its composition and according to what it is actually doing, I would expect an unconditional assessment according to my function. But there's even the Justice Department has a conditional assessment. This is where all the clubs so far praise the work of the State Audit Office. He's really exhausted. We have materials that are still behind this which are, let's either measure in kilograms or centimeters of paper, thickness of paper. However, let us remember about two months ago that the Government of the Republic of Croatia announced so-called "the Republic of Croatia". an independent foreign audit. We see here in the State Audit Report the number of employees. So, professional or professional education, personnel profiles, and I don't have a single word of objection either to that personnel profile or to the work of our State Audit. And every year we adopted this report, because the report is not wrong for adverse or conditional assessments, but for those to whom this assessment and their work are concerned. That's why I'm asking myself, and I'm turning to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is why, if the club itself is here, the Kukuriku coalition, was the HNS, the SDP here, which is why I don't believe the State Audit Report and announce 6.7m euros for the costs of so-called. some sides, independent audits. Is that savings? Is it completely paradoxical when today, here we have now announced the acceptance of this report by our State Audit Office. Why waste money, waste money if it happens, and it was announced two, three times persistent, or it was just test balloons. We'll see about that. So, this report, which the HDSSB club will accept, which is credible and which explains a large number of the entities that the audit went through for 2010, starting with the users of the state budget, to companies, units of local self-government, NGOs. Here, among other things, we have these companies owned by cities, or units of local self-government. For example, the Slavonski Brod Development Agency, and the Health Institute of Lekarna Slavonski Brod owned by the County of the Ship-Posavina and then the County and the State itself, the financial situation in these counties and these reports read that, for example, the losses of 5 Slavonian counties of Virovitičko-Podravska, Požeška, Osijek-Baranja, Brod-Posaviska and Vukovar-Srijemska amounts to around 67, I speak 67 million kuna. In some other regions, the situation is better, but it's about someone else when it's not about the State Audit. The report also says that no data on property owned by the Republic of Croatia has been shown in the National Budget Main Book. And then we're surprised, and we're going to talk about the property fee owned by the Republic of Croatia when we have paradoxical data on how many ministries, agencies, seduces are in the premises, rented spaces, and yet some premises, rooms, properties, and owned by the Republic of Croatia are empty. So, this sentence in the National Budget Master's Book, says no property data has been reported. Actually, there's no inventory. No inventory of state property has been made. Furthermore, no claims for income based on taxes and contributions have been recorded in the General Paper of the State Budget, but the main book does not. So what we're always talking about these days is unpaid taxes, those who don't pay contributions, so that's what it's actually saying here that it doesn't exist in the main book. And that's what the State Audit and this report indicate. And if we were to listen to all those concerned, all those who are subject to a state audit if they had in mind and recommendations and evaluations, so reaching that threshold of significance, regularity and irregularities in any case would be respected in the larger number of these recommendations of the State Audit Office, then it would not be possible to read here on page 3 that the total debt of the state is, therefore, counting the guarantees of around 23 billion euros or 182 billion 189 million and 469 aide to cut thousands of kuna. This is the situation on 31 December 2010. So, starting with the state and then talking about a number of irregularities and telling the machinations that the State Audit said I would even mildly qualify as something that wasn't agreed or was a bad project, so something didn't fall into the project, so it was later agreed and agreed, so one mild definition of State Audit, and actually behind that mild definition, maybe much worse things that the State Audit and couldn't establish and harden, but were almost said in practice, especially local self-government units in public procurement procedures where then additional works and procurement exceed 25% of the price, the project's performance prices. And this is repeated and we have it here in many, mainly when it comes to public procurement is mentioned in many of the entities that the State Audit Office audited and where auditors and those units were in local self-government or companies or also in users, among the users of the state budget. For this reason I say the State Audit Report is of course acceptable, it is exhaustive, it gives a lot of statistics on the state of financial in the Republic of Croatia in units of local self-government, in companies but also gives a picture of how it is actually done and where all the irregularities that have been here for 20 years of the existence of the Croatian state are not correct. From year to year we read one year is one municipality or I don't know the ministry, and another year the ministry, another municipality, county, etc. Are we finally going to settle down as a European state? I am in that belief that what the State Audit is even during the distinguished Mrs. Šime Krasic has found, and this is a crime in conversion and so on. "privatisation" or as one of my friends said "acceptation" where for small money or some kind of bank records were accepted as Cain and hotels and many properties, property created by the Croatian people for years and decades and centuries. Indeed now we have the foundation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the provisions in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the legal possibility to do so regardless of the flow of time of 20 years and sanction. I hope all these State Audit reports will help through all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5018	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 11.08 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. The club debate is over. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the respected chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2011 shows all negligence of governmental property management, state resources. It shows, as counterpart Grbin said, saying on behalf of the SDP club, a school example of how and what should not be done. And everything that has been done and how the state money has been spent is almost necessary to have truly one unlimited imagination for all possible abuses committed through individual ministries. What should be adornment, therefore, of a good government, is right here. One authority may say this or that about itself, but just in the report on the work of the State Audit Office, it is seen how she did business, which was done by the state administration with state, or taxpayers' money. Instead of accountability and transparency, therefore, we had numerous violations of the law. These injuries are minor, however, there are such injuries that the State Review uses according to its own language, but which cause serious suspicion of committing crimes. Therefore, I would not agree with the opening statement as to what the State Auditor said that it was not his duty because the duty arising from the Criminal Procedure Act for each State body even for each individual when he or she finds out in his work or in any way that there is a suspicion of committing a criminal offence that is being prosecuted under official duty is required to report it. So, I propose that this complete report on the work of the State Audit Office be submitted to the State Attorney's Office for consideration, but certainly also with special accentes highlighted in this debate on the report. After all, to facilitate the work of the State's Attorney's Office. If we look at a little bit of how the tax administration worked here, I think there's one of those data that's listed here, what are the debts, who owes everything, but that's not just about that, but the overall work of the entire ministry, we can say that it was done on the principle of a very fragmented "Sir, forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors." Now, that's the basic thought of leadership as it's been done so far and it's not supposed to be done, but it's always said here it's laughing, it's not to be done and it's to be repeated from year to year. So, what do we have to do here? In addition to criminal responsibilities and suspicions of certain criminal offences in the proceedings, it should certainly be incorporated which already exist in our legal system in some way and which may need to be sharpened. In order for officials to have to answer materially for all the damage they have done by doing what they intend to do, which they have caused the citizens of the Republic of Croatia through disorderly action or failure and inaction, because they have managed in an inadequate manner and against their property. Here is an example of what I have personally been talking about for years, namely, since 2005 and then 4, when the event has already happened and the Ministry of Justice itself is talking about, when Croatia still has a huge number of properties. What madness is this, please, from your own space from free space enter the space of Croatian Radio and charge Croatia for empty millions. So that's exactly what millions are talking about each year, namely, renting out a business space of 4152 meters, and people who stay in them and work say it's inadequate along the way. And not only that, but then the Ministry spent 12.5 million even more on the renovation of that space, and what judicial bodies, until then until 2004, we were at the expense of our own resources, or our own space, to meet the judicial bodies, and here the judicial bodies played the last hole, which is why the Ministry eventually exists to be a service to its users. to judicial bodies, courts and state attorneys. As the lease goes up to 12,408 million kunas, so the other premises are rented. So squares, squares of rented surfaces, we can't call them anything but crazy squared, and that crazy squared is supposed to end. Another example, the building was secured in 2003 or it seems to me back in 2002 in exchange for where the city of Split was due to the state, we managed to settle it in a way that we got space next to the Faculty of Law in Split, so on. The old wedding dresshouse, which was absolutely adequate for the lack of municipal space and the county court and state lawyers' offices in Split. What happens then in 2005, is really something scary, so it replaces this space for a space that is inadequate to the ministry, where a loan is raised from the bank where it would be invested in the equipment of that building, but investments and redecorations until today, or when this report is written, have not even begun. There. Well, when you see only that, do you need to say something about how other ministries were doing? Perhaps code, but before I move on to the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship alone, it is mentioned exactly how much the Ministry of Justice spent money on contracts for work, and the explanation is that it was a ban on employment but otherwise there is no interest in employment, so otherwise it is possible to hire people on a contract for work up to 2% of the total salary amount, but this here was done over over 5%, namely, it is almost nearly nearly 20 million kuna, of course all the commissions that did certain laws from this ministry were paid. And do you know how much they were paid in the period 2000 to 2003 and then more than 100 laws came out of the Ministry of Justice, 0 kuna. Because it's been an honor for these people to work at the Department of Justice and work on the fundamental laws of this country. You can see through the Ministry at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, of course, that the Ministry, here, wrote, did not even exercise general direct control of the dedicated spending of funds, but only on the basis of the accounts delivered, so nothing was ever controlled at all. Of course, the state office has also found such a situation that it is necessary to review the eligibility of support for such a large number of programmes and projects through several state bodies which share the goal of developing competitiveness and employment. The state office here says more attention is being paid to planning, that the planning was not realistic, but also the claims, which, through the allocation, were not recorded through the fund, claims for interest rates of those loans, and those loans that were placed, so they were not realised, were neither recovered. That's all there is to it. These are only excerpts, each page of the ropes, simply screams of lawlessness and this should be put to rest and this story alone will not do so unless the responsible ones bear the consequences of their unhappiness or illegal work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5020	Thank you. Two replicas, the first lady representative of Gyurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Anticevic, I'm glad today that this topic is and that you said that lawlessness should end the same way as you said you've been standing up for something for two years. I've been warning about Holding for two years. I am pleased that today is for the first time a daily press and published it and of course these are all facts and truths which says that Zagreb Holding is the Black Fund of the Kukuriku Coalition, we know that long ago. You've set up boards as well as all political people now. The fact that citizens in Zagreb will pay 30% higher water and utility for what? Because this same holding is 600 million kuna in debt, another 300 million in debt, that's a billion, because that same Holding has 38.2 million for intellectual services, 7.7 million for gifts, representation, then for buying some 30 million kunas are worth new cars. Your colleague Chichin Shine always asked her, so why aren't you saving? She's surprised at what? Why would they buy I don't know 100 horsepower passports when we ordered 300? Why is Holding full of people like that full of expenses, why is holding a bag with no bottom. I am glad that finally one medium dared to say what all citizens of the city of Zagreb know that it is indeed a black fund, a black bag to the Kukuriku coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5022	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5023	Such debates, I thought they would finally be completed in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to one illegality then it is not about that, but it is about him. So it's something that already mature children in the fifth grade don't do, ma'am. And we advocate that both in Holding and anywhere in the smallest municipality to the very state and its bodies and ministries be all transparent and well. And that warning and this is what it takes, all of it. But it is not an answer or a replica to what I was saying, otherwise, unless you want to go along the paths and path of Mrs. Šoljic, who wants so badly to be a representative in the City Assembly, not a representative in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5024	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5025	Thank you. Obviously, we're in big trouble. It is clear that neither the military nor the police are the greatest protections of any society or state. The largest walls and the greatest protection of developed society and developed countries are the laws of this society, that state. If this report says that those who were to control and enforce the laws, which is the Ministry of Justice themselves have fallen into lawlessness, then we are really in a huge problem, then we are in the biggest problem that can happen, which is that those who should be able to control whether someone is breaking the laws are breaking those laws themselves. It seems to me fellow Members that you have pointed out in principle the problem of our society when it comes to all that chainly leads to breaking the spine of society and losing the citizens' trust in the legality of society as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5026	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5027	So what you colleagues are talking about is a good part of relying on that one generality why Croatian citizens don't trust institutions. When they see this, when they hear this, and see in practice what is happening and who is dragging on our courts, it's simply badgers in front of a court or looking for justice in vain or looking for it for years, or when the whole system is pointing towards a poor person where the whole seriousness of repression through the police, the state's attorney, courts, prisons through someone who's possibly damaged or someone or some company or state for some insignificant amount. Far from the fact that the state shouldn't be involved, but then people say, and where justice is and who is there then in front of our courts, and what does the state do in its repression when it's possible to behave like this and nothing. So, it's already a proverb not only of our country but of many countries, so when they get estranged and embezzled in any way, millions of them become dignitaries, and this poverty for them is both fictional and judicial and shut down.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5028	Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Chief state auditors with associates, Prime Minister. Every year when we discuss the State Audit Office's report, we actually find that in that year, the State Audit carried out a large and very difficult one, I would say a job. This concludes that 832 audits were carried out, that 527 entities and 2 projects were covered and that 178 billion kuna values were revised, a large part of the social gross product. In fact, our State Audit controls 50 a year and more of the total GDP posts. This is either a low social GDP or a high share of state, local and regional self-government and state-owned enterprises that redeploy GDP. They also find something that is not good, which is that the recommendations and orders they make after each revision are not carried out by audited entities. Here she tried to tell her colleague Dalic that they were sometimes unaccompanied. If they are inconclusive, then we need to change the situation, so we cannot say we only have one such supplier and we cannot call public procurement. Well, there are other ways to solve this, too, so maybe laws should be changed, if that's the case. In fact, this report should not be the item of the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. We here discuss the day, the whole day sometimes, we talk about many things that are repeated year after year, and this really has to be the best information for our citizens about spending tax money but also about managing state property, because they are owners of these assets and they are users of that money. We can't talk here about the government or the Parliament, they're just entrusted to manage that kind of money. From year to year, the same things are repeated, although it should be said if I'm looking from that first report in '95. Years of progress are particularly important in the records. However, what is in addition to controlling the records, i.e. the business of certain entities within which the State Audit Office is audited should actually assess the economy, the efficiency of the use of such funds. The state office has been doing this for the last few years and I think it should be trained in such a way that we may not have a review every year, for example, units of local self-government, five hundred municipalities, small municipalities, cities and counties that use 9% or 10% of tax funds somewhere. It is a great effort for people who have to do this, and then we miss not knowing the huge amount of funding in state-owned enterprises, public enterprises, and even in these projects that we will have more and more about the European Union. So, I'm going to start with internal audit or internal financial control. The government's decision in 2009 is that internal audit must be included in the finance and budget units. However, that was not the case with all users, and it is observed. It is also noted that internal control activities are aimed at risk management, but they often do not do so in this area. And so, there should be an accent, so risk management, and that's something that's known in the banking system, and it's getting more and more pronounced. It should also be within the state budget and its users. It is also concluded that internal control auditors are more often and more involved in the EU's audit projects than in national funds, which is good, because in this way we are learning how to use the European Union funds but we must not ignore this part of the national funding. When planning from year to year progress, but we still have bad planning, and so we don't go to audit, or budget rebalance, then in recent years we've been making a law on the implementation of the state budget decisions that the government can redeploy almost the entire budget other than the financing bill, which we're suggesting is not good and then I'm going to say how, in fact, some things get away with us. As far as accounting business is concerned, I think there's been the greatest progress since when we had something practically happening that the accountant says messy accounting. We don't have that anymore, but we have a problem with income and expenditure as far as planning is concerned, as far as the payment of the claim is concerned. Therefore, sufficient measures are not taken to make claims, and in expenditure, we have irrational or unintended spending of funds. I'll just say that for example, say the Ministry of Regional Development. In two items of the Treaty on the Functioning, 10.7% of the amounts used instead of 2% of the salary, the amount of salaries for such contracts. There's no reason for it to be done like that. At the same time, as regards the payment of overtime fees, there was also an overrun against the Labour Act, which is at the same time the irregularities that occurred a year earlier. So, and what they were warned about and then it's no wonder I say more than 50% or 50% of such orders don't carry out. Property is a special problem. In 20 years, we haven't been able to identify the property the state has, or even local units often don't know what property they have. It's a problem from the beginning, a list of assets and liabilities. There's a discrepancy in individual records. State property is mostly out of function or mismanagement, and a lease is also used for the needs of state institutions. It's also a matter of purpose and a question of economics, but it's really a time when we should establish records and know exactly what the state has to do with it. Public procurement is always and most debated. I'm just going to say that in this year, there's been an audit of a billion, 2 billion and 221 million kuna, which is a significant amount. But if public companies not audited this year were involved, it would probably be double or maybe triple the amount. In the case of state guarantees, to have such an excess of 64% is actually inadmissible and that is something that the Parliament, through which the Parliament should not pass. In fact, since there was no budget rebalancing because the Government could have done it on its own because such authorisation by the Parliament could not exceed the guarantees but had to come here to Parliament with an amendment to the Law on the implementation of the state budget. And when we talk about responsibility, who's responsible for reporting irregularities like this. As far as I know, the State Audit Office, after hearings like this, delivers all the findings to the State's Attorney's Office. But the biggest responsibility for the measures taken has the Croatian Parliament and the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. If we are satisfied just to discuss here, to make any conclusions, and not to analyse later, or to check what is behind these conclusions, how they are realised and we will continue to talk about one of these same irregularities year after year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5030	Thank you. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go. She's gone. He's losing his word. Madam Representative Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief State Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. I will look back in today's debate primarily on the revisions of the financial reports of units of local self-government and their business. So we saw that a review was carried out for 285 units of which 18 unconditional and 266 conditional opinions and one unfavourable opinion were given. Of the audits carried out in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County, towns, municipalities and the county itself, the only unconditional opinion was expressed on the Financial Report and Business of the Municipality of Mikleus. Other units, including the towns of Orahovica, Slatina, Virovitica, the municipalities of Crnač, Čacinci, Čađavica, Gradina, Lukač, Voćin and Zdenci as well as Virovitica-Podravska County themselves, have a conditional opinion. I regret that there has not been a revision of the financial reports and business of the Pitomaca Municipality, which is the sixth largest municipality in Croatia with 10.5 thousand inhabitants to see these data and audit opinions. But hopefully next year we'll have that too. Let me just now say a few words about the revenue of the budget that was covered by the audit report distributed locally. So, I looked at the income tax, i.e. its distribution and the share in the revenue achieved in the budget, and since, of course, the income tax is the total income of the state budget, so in terms of income tax, the situation is the following: the shares of the municipality, i.e. the city are 55%, the county is 15.5%, the decentralised function is 12%, aiding the alignment of 17.5%. With local self-government units which finance decentralised functions having the right to further share in income tax at different rates, e.g. a maximum of 3.2% for healthcare and at least 0.5% for social labour centres. If we look at the tax revenue and income cuts for 2010 per given county plus the City of Zagreb, it can be seen that there are significant differences in the proportions of local self-government units in total income. These differences are generally followed by general size and economic power, e.g. certain counties, cities and municipalities in their territory. They depend, of course, on the size of the budget, on the number of residents, on the share in GDP, on the unemployment rate and on a number of other data. In that table, the absolute records at the start of the shares are again Ličko-senjska and Virovitica-Podravska County, which record the lowest shares in the tax revenues achieved and the income cut. Thus, in Virovitica-Podravska County alone, the share of income was 2.2%, in cities 0.6%, and in municipalities 1.7%. Only for comparison of the Primorje-Gorski County participates in those revenues with nearly 10%. The same situation is also the same in relation to revenues from real estate tax. The lowest share in the revenue achieved again has Virovitica-Podravska County. So, together with Licko-Senj County whose budget amounts to just over 49 million kuna Virovitica-Podravska County with 61 million kuna and Požeko-Slavon County with 69 million and three counties are placed at the beginning of all users. That fact isn't, of course, a new date, that's the data we've been having for years. However, I believe that with increased attention it is necessary to approach this problem particularly in light of the debate on the decentralised state. In any case, if we want to have a decentralised state of the unit of local self-government should be somewhat evenly developed or at least get a chance to achieve this development. As long as there are several counties such as those mentioned that are diminishing importance due to too little in the budget revenues of even development, there will be no. What is the solution to this problem now? Well, first of all, I think that these intense investments are needed, so in those areas, preferably strategically directing new investments right there. New investments, along with enhanced support and state assistance, are key moments for these units of local self-government to avoid and prevent further subsidisation of these parts. If there is a momentum in recovery and development in Istria, Primorje and northern Croatia, and the east of Croatia remains taps in the dark, there will be insurmountable differences and we will have units of local self-government that absolutely do not seem to have a positive business balance and will be subscribed to conditional opinions or unfavourable opinions of the State Audit if due to nothing then due to overindebtion and excessive disproportionateness between income and expenditure. Statistics are a ruthless area, and in observing and understanding these data all factors should be taken into account if we are making an assessment of the contribution and importance of certain units of local self-government, that was basically why I was talking about this. Finally, I would like to point out that any illegality, irregularity and sloppyness in the business of units of local self-government should be referred to the correction of course by means of a recommendation of course, and should be monitored afterwards, but should also be referred where it is necessary to refer to the procedure for the identification of persons responsible for those illegal actions and, of course, I think that in that part of your part, it remains all in the work of the State's Attorney's Office, but perhaps in the next report on the work of the State's attorneys and the results in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5032	Thank you. Madam representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5033	Thank you, Vice President, chief state auditors with associates, government representative, colleagues and colleagues. So for this audit report, we can tell those auditors that they deserve an unconditional opinion, as they did in earlier years, both because of a really quality job and because of credibility and because of representativeness. In fact, the representativeness of this report is assured by the fact that the State Audit Office has reviewed actually users who have had a value of more than 178 billion kuna, which is, as we have already heard, more than half of GDP. So we can freely say every other kuna of GDP has gone through the hands of the State Audit Office. In the continuity of 17 years, the State Audit Office as an independent and independent professional body is doing this huge and very demanding job and, on a regular basis, confirms itself as a strong link in the chain of public money control and the protection of state property, regardless of what actually does not have this repressive function. Representatives in the Croatian Parliament have been unique in this view all these years, regardless of whether it was a position or opposition that such reports were excellent, that they were quality and regularly supported. However, what we have to ask ourselves every year when we read this report whether the primary objective of the State Audit is to reduce the number of irregularities and illegalities found on the ground. Therefore, despite such quality work of state audit irregularities and illegality, there is still a great deal and one of the indicators that support this claim is a high percentage of conditional assessments and opinions on the business of audited entities. Here in 2011 such conditions and opinions were 85% of the total number of audits carried out according to only 15% of unconditional opinions, and this ratio of 85% conditional to 15% unconditional, we could say with a negligible percentage of unfavourable opinions is, in fact, with some deviations from year to year constants. So that's one constant. The truth should be said that the audit opinion, by its definition, points more to a positive view than to a negative position, at the same time clearly highlights the reasons why such an opinion is given conditionally and thus very precisely quantifies the financial effects of these identified irregularities. We ask ourselves why this situation is and why there is no important change. So one of the possible answers is actually data on how audited entities relate to the recommendations given by the State Audit Office, how willing these entities are to respect these recommendations and opinions, and thus actually reduce the risks in their future business, or in what they do. A total of 2043 orders and recommendations were issued in the 2010 audit, but only 901 were completed. If these numbers are added to 124 more orders that are in the execution process, then we can say that they have been executed or that will be exactly 50% of the warrant and recommendation. At the same time, this means that 50% of the recommendations and opinions have not been carried out, so they have not been followed, each other’s warrant, each other’s opinion of the State Audit Office remains incomplete. In 2011, as many as 44% more orders and recommendations were issued than in 2010, 2935, the report next year will see how much of that number and recommendations and opinions have been respected, carried out, and whether half of them will again remain dead letters on paper, so from year to year the situation is actually repeated, the State Audit Office is issuing an increasing number of orders and recommendations to correct irregularities in public money operations but every other order, i.e. any other recommendation, is simply ignored. The work of professional people paying taxpayers is ignored, so that next year these professionals are re-exploited and spent their budget money detecting the same irregularities, and that 85% of the audited entities will get conditional opinions again. The work of the State Audit can be freely said in the Croatian case is indeed a sizif's job. Even areas with the largest number of irregularities identified do not change. There is still the most problematic local level, out of the 285 revised units of local self-government, only 18 of them got a slightly more than 6% unconditional opinion, even 266 as much as 93% got conditional opinions, with one unit getting a negative opinion. The next problem in local self-government is in and companies owned by them or where the local self-government unit is the founder, 43 of them again in one huge percentage of 86% received conditional audit opinions, and only 7 of the total number of audited or 14% received unconditional opinions. Even if part of the failure is attributed to this one insufficient expertise of the local administration, this is still too much and really unacceptable. However, if the review principle on the material importance of the revised areas is respected, then it is far worse than the one at the local level at the state level, above all, at the ministries. In fact, it is known to all of us that units of local self-government have just over 10% of public money and that, in fact, 90 percent of the state is available. So out of the 16 ministries, only 6 of them received unconditional opinion, and even 10 of them conditionally. What is most problematic, the largest number of them are permanent relapsers, for many years in continuity they get conditional opinions. What's actually extremely problematic is that a large number of these ministries have precisely huge assets that are managed extremely badly, it would say almost flimsily. And this could lead to the conclusion that the state is a bad master, however, it should be a precise bad state is a bad master. The problem of all the problems that have been said today is that the state doesn't even know what property it has at the moment because it doesn't have a complete property register or a single information system to monitor that property. So, while on the one hand thousands of state-owned properties stares blank and literally collapses on the other side, spending huge money on renting business spaces. for a number of these facilities, no lease or lease contract has been concluded for years, claims for flats on the payment payments are not shown in the main book and financial reports, no payment measures are taken for tens of millions of kunas and do not run in due time or court proceedings, and most of these claims will never be charged because the debtors in the meantime ended up in bankruptcy. One word of money literally leaks through the fingers of this country and I must say that it sounds a little unlikely that such irresponsible management of public money, or state property, the ministry gets from the state's office of reviewing conditional opinions. I think they deserve negative opinions in order, and primarily because they're relapsers, which they haven't improved in years, and the other because they have this huge material property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5034	Thank you. Mr. Representative Joseph Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, guest of honor. I have carefully read these extensive materials, and I will join all my predecessor's congratulations in the awareness of which this report has been made. However, one thing seems to me I haven't been able to tell. This is a public document, it doesn't write any restrictions on secrecy, but one important sentence should be written, this is only allowed to read people with strong nerves. Don't think that I'm thinking about late television shows, but I'm going to illustrate it to what the report says, and I think it's very worrying, and it's a little disturbing to the public's lack of interest in what this material says. Let's just look at page 3. He says this way "The revision found that the financial plans were not real or complete. The revenue and expenditure of certain activities are not realistically planned etc." I'll skip. "The main book of the state budget remains unrecorded claims for revenues based on the Law on Income and the State Budget." It further writes, "The audit found that the debt records and the collection of public taxes set up in the competent management departments of finance are not reliable." It continues to say "No data on ownership of the Republic of Croatia has been shown in the main book of the state budget." Twenty-four rows of this. Let's turn the page. On the next page, we have at least 5 things that are extremely problematic and call for an alert. It is said that financial statements show revenue and expenditures are only those paid, which are not transferred to next year. Next, "no legal measures have been taken to collect claims." And then the following, "the audit found that individual expenditures paid from the positions of the financial plan of the budgetary user on which the available funds remained, rather than the burden of the positions to which they relate. In the context of expenditure on services of the greatest irregularity, the expenditure of the work contract is concerned." That I'm not going any further. I would just like to mention that the same thing is repeated in the revision of local self-government units, that it is similarly quite repeated in the revision of other beneficiaries of the budget. Even in an even more acute dramatic form. He says "in certain audited entities the cashier's business has not been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the budget. Payments of the costs of official travel in the account of costs were made without the documents provided, etc. the list of assets is incomplete and also applies to obligations. No certain revenue has been charged, no claims exist for which there are measures of forced collection," which in only 4 pages, I am not going any further. The State Audit report reminds you of what is the diagnosis and laboratory data when you go for a systematic review. In some cases, they repeat the diagnostic deficiencies identified, but time goes by, and if you have had poor indicators of pressure, sugar or others for years, after some time these are no longer just indicators of the state of health but of the state of destruction of a particular body, we are no longer young or strong, but are at risk. In this case, the data first and foremost indicate the state in which the new government assumes its obligations. It takes over this in a state of total income and expenditure failure established by the State Audit, way of business and enormously high illegality. The people would use other and stronger and sharper words to point out that. In this debate, one very calm tone prevails, but the results of the diagnostics show quite clearly that we are actually faced with an enormous and unsuitable situation in our state resources through the availability of assets. Let me just illustrate, and I'll end it. Mrs. Zgrebec pointed out how one quasi legal change was actually made in the implementation of the state budget where the state guarantees increased by 64.1% compared to what was foreseen. It means that the apparent change legally did what was an economic disaster. That amount of funds is about the amount of funds Mr. Linic, the finance minister here the other day justified the savings he made, saying he couldn't do any more. So what's this? He can certainly do more, he needs better.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5036	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5037	So the false quote of the esteemed representative of Kregar is concerning the guarantees issued. It's an incorrect quote and your classification and as far as the guarantees are concerned. Just so you know one of the guarantees issued about which the city of Rijeka has increased has said that although they do not have any legal authority, they will give a guarantee of 3. Maya, and now that it's given by the state, it's against the law then it's scandalous. Things just have to be called the same language no matter who makes them. And these increases in these guarantees relate exclusively to shipbuilding. And the attitude of the Kukuriku coalition regarding shipbuilding and the mugging of shipbuilding workers is well known.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5038	Mr. Representative, Vice President of House Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Chief State Auditors, colleagues and colleagues. The predecessors and predecessors of the MPs will more or less agree with them to make this report an unconditional opinion, termnologically speaking. However, as far as the methodology itself is concerned and unconditionally, I would suggest a conditional and unfavourable opinion, and I will later elaborate on why, in that part, the methodology should change a little bit or try to evaluate the grades from 1 to 5. The objectives I will look back through my discussion on the revision in local communities means municipalities, cities, as mayor of the second term of office every year, I have a three- to five-month review coming up. Let him keep coming and I will always support, even if I have never received an unconditional opinion as mayor, or on the work of the service, and I think the reasons are above all, I will dare to say Benignni. To establish the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports, analyse the achievement of income and income, and carry out expenditure and expenditure in accordance with the plan, check compliance with the laws and regulations, check and assess the efficiency of the use of funds, and check other activities related to the operations of local units. This one, looking at 18 unconditional, 266 conditional, 1 unfavourable opinion if you looked at statisticalally backwards for several years, I don't think there's any big difference from year to year. Statistically speaking, one trend is not good. That's where we agreed more or less about it. I'd like to, I know that by law, it might not be like that right now, but I'd suggest that apart from the report, the revisions that you have some tools or to simplify that you have both a stick and a carrot, not just on the basis of opinions, suggestions, suggestions. Because normally we all know, I don't want to sound radical so that my fellow mayors, the mayors, don't get me, but when someone gets hit in the pocket, they're best at correcting their mistakes. I would also suggest that through a possible change in methodology and the very approach of the revision, I know that you have different approaches to cities, medium, large, small, municipalities etc. However, I would also like that, my suggestion would go in that direction if you had one different approach in a way that you didn't go all the way, because it's an extremely expensive job, a demanding job that requires the full concentration of your people when they're on the ground, psychologically I believe that it destroys them when they have to complete the cash register, bookkeeping, anything examined, to make first access to flash controls. If irregularities are identified at a higher level, they are given to go deep. Because I think that your time and your knowledge that owns your services right now would be needed, because based on this report, practically 15% of the local communities are working according to regulations. It's a worrying piece of information. So in some way in agreement with the Ministry of Finance that you're also doing a kind of educational content in local self-government units exactly in a way, I know that it's never going to be that we all have unconditional opinions. But in some ways and the services that work in municipalities, cities, counties to educate them, you get to know more regularly with new regulations. Because I'm saying, there's one part of these irregularities, I know you're not an advisory body, but I suggest, I suggest, because your opinion will be sought. Of course, this Parliament has all the materials when changes to the Law on Units of Local and Regional Self-Government will be made. Your opinions will be more than necessary in that section. What I'd like to make is probably some kind of mistake on page 30. It's unconditional thinking, so it lists some cities, so I see it says conditionally in brackets. Is that a mistake last year? Okay. I'm sorry. What I wanted to mention was only in the expense section because I was given that opinion in the city. So, as for the cover of the lack of income receipts over expenses. Yeah. For all of us in the last, especially in 2010, there was a drop in revenue from the projections that we received from the government to do the budget. And I specifically got a conditional opinion just for one reason why we didn't make a plan to recover the lack of income that was in the 2011 budget. A year. So basically that's what you can say and you can say unconditionally. Also, as far as suggestions are concerned, it writes the Community Infrastructure maintenance programme and the building of facilities and utility infrastructure devices do not apply or contain certain elements prescribed by the provisions of the Law on the municipal economy. In particular, I have 120 km of unclassified roads. There's one piece of it, one of them 20 miles of gravel. And I'd have to say, practically, for every stock through the utility infrastructure maintenance program, how many cubic meters of gravel are going to go to each share. People believe that's impossible. It's impossible because this maintenance is done in view of the finances that we have in the budget only interveningly, so if there is such a disturbance in traffic on those roads, then you intervene. What I would like to suggest is the same, and I also said in the introduction about the very methodology of evaluation. I'm looking at, say, the town of Chakovec with the crosses is marked by what's not good. The system of internal financial controls crosses, accounting operations or I would say minus, asset management minus. So there's not a single position you've assessed to be a positive grade. He got a conditional opinion. I'm looking at the town of Ivanec, of course I'm going to point out, there are pluses everywhere except expenditures and expenditures, and I said why for the simple reason that the 2011 budget was put in place, and no special document was written on how we're going to tackle this income deficit. I suggest it's not the same if you have 5 minus or if you have 1 or 2 or 3, and believe me, it's not even simple... In front of your citizens and explain it to them as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They say you have the same thing as the one that's in crime, and there's a neighboring town in my house, where the State's Attorney's office has been established, but not by order of review, not by order of review. It's not an audit that initiated crime in that town, and I see that he's practically got a conditional opinion as well. I suggest that you try to change the methodology, as well as fight to be advisory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5040	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dan Spicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5041	So here, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow a brief review of this report on the work of the State Audit Office in 2010. So I'd say at the beginning that we found out the other day that the inspection closed down Zagreb's cult "Cultural Factory" because three residents complained of noise. We also know that many companies, therefore, have been delinquent because of minor violations in business, although they have not done any financial or other damage to anyone, but have been caught in a misdemeanour and paid for it. We know that if, for example, an inspection finds more than a calculated kuna in your cash register that you will likely pay the fine of several thousand kunas, you may even get shut down by a cafe. And now based precisely on this report that we know on our benches today for the first time and officially how the national administration did business in 2010. And she did at least, ladies and gentlemen, irresponsiblely, untransparently and in many ways illegally. It was those who swore to the necessary austerity measures and personal examples of the sacrificial deprivement of water with a taste that proved their enormous thrifty at the same time in debt to the State for additional billions. They shared the same you and over 3 billion kuna guarantees more than the budget law allowed. The financial plans of most budget users, which is primarily thought of by the ministries, according to the report were not real at all. In public procurement, the State Audit finds a whole series of irregularities and illegalities. Direct contracts without competition are being made, service providers start with the provision of services and before the publication of the tender itself, which can only mean that the tenders are prepared in advance, that they are agreed in advance and that they are set up. Works and services, ladies and gentlemen, something that is generally known, and now based on this report and proving themselves, were carried out at far higher prices than initially agreed which was subsequently unlawfully resolved and compensated by annex contracts and in an illegal manner. According to the audit results, I would say a bizarre impression that the state administration has somehow taken control and is leading some of its parallel policy in parallel space because while at the same time I am talking about 2010, the Jadranka Kosor government is taking control, calling for overall solidarity, saving, saving, drinking only plain water without taste, the ministries compete in consumption and waste. It's like there's a secret game. A secret game won by a ministry that spends the most money, possibly illegally. If such a game really existed, the decision seems to have fallen to first compete at the cost of operating contracts and this in the category of payment of external associates to carry out operations within the regular activities of the ministry. Simplified – who will spend more on foreign associates for jobs for which ministry employees are predetermined and paid anyway. It has already been said, but I will repeat, since the law allows spending on external associates up to 2% of the funding provided for employees' salaries in the finals are the competitors who transfer that norm. And so our finalists became the Ministry of Health and Social Care with two-and-a-half times the legal spending, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which managed to spend three times as much as the legal standard, namely 3.5 million kuna. But there's also a bonus for additional violations of the law because other than outsiders, the imagined contracts of action were additionally paid to their employees. Of course, as an addition to their regular salary. Then, there is the Ministry of Transport as one of the most successful with four and a half times the legal consumption allowed, and the Ministry of Agriculture, although with only two times as much consumption as allowed, is standing with the help of an additional bonus. In fact, they spent an additional 5.5 million kuna on rewards for members of the commission. Bonus points were won by commission members who were employees of the same ministry who held neither less nor more sessions than during their working hours. Otherwise, for the work you do during working hours, there is something that the law provides for and is called pay. The second on the stand is the Ministry of Regional Development with 5 times the cost of operating contracts allowed with 25 thousand additional paid overtime, which found 69 employees within the ministry illegally paid. Why? Because the Labour Act says you can't pay more than 180 hours each, or individually in a year. In this ministry alone, the law has been violated in 69 cases. The winner of this little competition is the Ministry of Tourism. Although small ones have managed to spend the most on foreign associates who have done ministry employees' jobs, as much as 7 times the legal amount allowed. Now, this is just a small representation of a portion of the indifference that has taken place over the past few years by state ministries. While some were filling black bags, ladies and gentlemen, others were apparently emptying the state's register. The continuation of the detection game is yet to follow, and the water without taste may bring some to the end and the taste of bitterness. And how this, given the beginning of the story, wouldn't just be a crime without punishment, would I express hope. The hope that the police, the State's Attorney's Office and other competent institutions will do their job much more zealously from now on, so if they launch investigations based on this report and enter into which the overtime should not be angry, however, we will gladly pay them back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5042	Thank you. We have one reported replica. Dear representative Ivana Posavec Krivec, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5043	Thank you, dear Vice President. So I have to note that in this inspired debate, fellow Spepper has become very interesting this competition that he has mentioned all along, this competence between the state ministries, the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I would simply like to note that it seems to me that there was actually one team sport, that these were not individual competitors, that they were all actually the right team together and that we are ultimately being told that these pillars for the first, second or third winning place really needed to expand a little bit. And about these contracts that took so much money aside and that showed that it didn't have a good quality in the ministries might need to be redistributed to help out in the state audit because it seems to me that all authorised state auditors won't be able to do a quality job and actually assess how many irregularities there have been because today we're talking about the 2010 report, the question is what is still waiting for us in 2011? A nice parallel here has been withdrawn from a small Ministry of Tourism, but let's not forget that in the media, the tourism minister is the most successful minister in the last government, so maybe it has something to do with how much help he had on the side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5044	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with an individual discussion. Honorable representative Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5045	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Assistant Minister of Finance, respected chief auditors with their representatives. I am extremely pleased to say a few words about this report at this point, of course, I would very much like to refer to what our country consists of, these are units of local self-government, there happens everything. There are incomes, expenditures, and there are people who are employed there and investment is created or investment is not created. Of course, a total of the operations of the ministries and the whole of the stories that I would skip at the moment because I would look back at a few things that were very important to me and that I noticed in the functioning of surveillance in local self-government units, which I have had for the past 2, 3 years since I was in principle there, it is the city of Trogir, but I will speak in principle. Of course, regarding the 2011 State Audit Office Report, it is important to note that in fact the needs of the audit should not be spoken much, but we should never be able for the revision to become a purpose for itself, and in particular that any circumstances, anyone, no matter where it has taken place in any framework and any other political and other frameworks. I'm not saying it's like that, but there are some situations that, unfortunately, might be here, I'm not saying they're talking, but maybe I can interpret it that way. It is not questionable to say that we have several types of surveillance today, we have a state audit, some cities have their own audit, we have financial material control, the FMC is known and now we have the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The question of how many overlaps, the question of whether they are comprehensive and how many and where is the zero point. When we talk about whether it's conditional, unconditional, or other solutions. Of course, the State Audition is not an arbiter, it finds and determines the founding state but also, I am now not putting any burden of responsibility, because in principle I will support this report, but I must say that regardless of the support, I must say that this is one situation where you have generated losses, generated responsibilities, burdens, which are very little being spoken of, we will now have in the fiscal responsibility law because it is a zero year 2011. But in 2011 not everything was generated in that year and let me say that maybe nothing. On the other hand, the purpose of each control is to establish, in due time, irregularities when and why irregularities have occurred, the reasons for any irregularities arising, and the taking of appropriate measures, recommendations, time limits for the elimination of irregularities and further proceedings if illegalities are established. Now, my several opinions regarding the control of accounting, material, financial, therefore, with scrutiny and in terms of supervision of units of local self-government, financial, accounting, material, public procurement control, property management and others. For example, for example, concrete examples are that units of local self-government, establishing irregularities on the occasion of surveillance, therefore, the supervision that took place on 6th, 7th and 8th may have been omitted when, for example, irregularities and deadlines and certain causes of irregularities occurred, and they were bound by the responsibility of local self-government units, so that the local self-government unit is directly or indirectly committed through its companies in majority or partial ownership, the issuing of guarantees, these guarantees are not shown to the Ministry of Finance, this has not been established nor been taken into account in particular, it would have been possible to show that the years and those were not functionally, either in an appropriate manner, nor intended to spend the funds. Of course, and that's a bigger problem when something like that happens and then you have a generated legacy, and then you have a threatening account block, and now you have to choose. You're gonna let me block the account, or pay what you have to pay. To pay for something that came into existence once. In 2006, financial material controls were to be introduced, however, it happens that after 2.3 years it was found that these material financial controls were not included in the system or that they were not applied by the relevant local self-government unit. Of course it's a process and a process. And that it must be spent and not be spent overnight and, of course, budget 2006, 7, 8, or I don't know what years it is to carry out such a procedure. And now regarding the confirmation of responsibilities, conditional, unconditional or not giving passage, I must say that such conditions directly concern the units of local self-government and are based on the needs of future resolutions, precisely the result of what has not been established in due time or may not have arrived, I do not want to calculate or wish to impose any responsibility on them, but the fact that such a thing has happened and is happening, in this way my city is burdened by more than two budgets. On the other hand, whether supervision can, for example, miss to note that the local self-government unit has forgotten to notify the finance ministry of its debt, and for this there is a particular form to inform it. It doesn't matter, we know that 20% of the budget is as much as possible for the local self-government unit. But there is also a different one, and then of course there comes a year where you have to show the truth, you have to show everything, you have to show the responsibility that was real. What I'm talking about right now has another body, because what I'm talking about right now is what I'm talking about, and it wouldn't be too much of a thing, since it's a procedure. Can supervision not notice that, in several financial years, spending on expenditure, and we talk all the time about spending on expenditure, has been carried out for those activities that are not within the jurisdiction of local self-government units, for example? Media, sports, or others. Can surveillance not notice that the creation and concealment of generated loss may occur at the introduction of accounting documents into business books, and then one year you must show a loss of a few dozen million. Can surveillance in his plans and some identified irregularities that do not fall within his Nazi circle suggest and bring thought to it? I'd rather not, since there's been a mention of unpaid contracts here, I'm not going to talk here about other sports and promotion activities because it would be more declassified and boring. I know the State Audit is way too busy and I support every control, and I can tell by the light that we need to speed up. In principle, I think that the State Office for Auditing the appropriate moment and, in accordance with its legal powers, managed in principle to determine and determine financial and accounting operations, public procurement, asset management and in a quality gossiping way to respond and has such experience. And I thank you for all the audits that have been made here since 2009 both extraordinary and regular. Last sentence. [[Intruder: Last sentence.]] Thank you. Please also consider what I said in future revisions in some way when establishing conditional, unconditional and other provisions. I'm not saying it's worth everything. Thank you. I'm sorry I took a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5046	Thank you, Your Honor, Agent Rilje. Your wish to replicate your presentation has been reported by a distinguished representative of the Sun's Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5047	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague, I'll look back on what you've been saying, so local self-government units, and I'll only agree with you in one question, and that's the question of whether a state review is a purpose for itself? So to whom does this conditional opinion actually serve, unconditional opinion when some units of local self-government year after year simply ignore your findings? In 2010, you order action, they say in 2011, we did something, but we didn't do anything to the rest, so it doesn't matter, nothing's going to happen. Like that. In Međimurje County or the town of Čakovec, which also referred to the vice president, we can say that the failures continue to make the failures not sanctioned and no one is responsible for it. The town of Čakovec, for example, did not conduct public procurement procedures according to the law, nothing to anyone. Not all expenditure and liabilities are recorded in the county's business books. Among other counties, no proposal for measures to cover income shortages and receipts. You know it all. In addition, it may be irrelevant, but for our small community it is still very important. The programme of public needs in sport has not been adopted, it is not known who and at what cost agricultural land has been converted into construction land, and you have pointed out that, however, the gentlemen of the State Audit, no one considers it. My question is, how long will that be? So not only are losses generated, but there are still irregularities that we want to warn about and which you warn, but there is no movement. You can't fix something like a little bit for three years, but actually, the most important things that make you here are the audits and the ones that don't make it right. It's illegal in that way that becomes legal. Because if someone sees that they can do it for three years, now I'm going to end up Mr. Vice President, if someone can do it three years in a row against the law, and then it probably means that that's how they can keep doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5048	Thank you. We'll hear the answer to the replica. The Honorable representative of Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5049	Dear colleagues, here I am now not aware of how much this was an answer and how many attempts to generalize the matter. It's very important to me that what I said is not generalized, but in principle I agree with you that you can talk about it. But you know as well as I do that there are other bodies and I don't know why there hasn't been any reference to those very bodies that I mentioned in my presentation on either side. This is my first call, I don't know, I don't suppose you're, uh, referring to those in charge. For example. State's attorney's office and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5050	We continue with an individual debate of 10 minutes. Dear representative Vanja Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5051	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the State Audit Office. A lot has already been said, but I have to say something that I am very concerned about, and I believe that all of our citizens who, if they read it all, would be very concerned. In fact, there are a lot of observed work irregularities and a lot of extremely conditional opinions. It is not disputed that the State Audit Office has done its job extensively and in detail, but it is disputed that some entities have been given conditional opinion for several years now for the same failures. So I wonder, then, if they were given a conditional opinion before, and they had to correct that failure within a certain legal period, which is obviously not because they got a conditional opinion again, why are they being given a conditional opinion? Perhaps I should not, therefore, enter into the work of the State Audit, but personally, perhaps I should give them a warning and an unfavorable opinion or a abstention, so perhaps they will finally correct those failures. We also have examples that of the 6 categories for them, 5 have been found to have certain irregularities, systematically, especially in units of local and regional self-government. The system of internal financial controls and this I must note that this system of internal financial controls obviously in cities, municipalities, county does not work and has not actually revived. Accounting operations, revenues and receipts, expenditure and expenditure, public procurement. In my opinion, it is personally a little too many identified irregularities. I wonder how much the State Audit Office's recommendations have had to do with how much further this has been done. Because as you can see from 2043 orders and recommendations 901 or 44.1% is done, and 124 is 6.1% is in the execution process, and even 1018 or 49.8% of orders and recommendations are not followed. So they don't care. What is also particularly concerned is that the total audited revenue of 23 budget users is an unconditional opinion expressed for them 10 for them 13 even conditional opinion of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development, Ministry of Tourism, etc. etc. So I wonder if we have conditional opinions for ministries that should be a reputation for others, so how can we possibly expect companies and other businesses to work properly? It is regrettable that no data on property owned by the Republic of Croatia have been shown in the General Book of the State Budget. The Central State Office for State Property Management has no comprehensive data. It means that there is no place in the Republic of Croatia where accurate data can be obtained about the property owned by the Republic of Croatia, so on the last comparison we do not know at all what we own, neither we nor the citizens. What is also interesting is that for certain budgetary users, the data on the value of the assets in the accounts and financial statements are not identical or that the property data in the Masterbook and the support books are not harmonised. So what we know is that we have as property we don't know exactly what is the exact value of what, of course, leads to doubt in the case of the sale of property. So, we can sell it at this price or that price, oil will be sold subjectively. As far as the revision of local units is concerned, the situation is no better. I have already mentioned 285 local units, 18 unconditional ones, and all other conditional opinions, etc. companies, 7 unconditional, 48 conditional opinions. Local units seem to have a lot of irregularities in public procurement procedures, and they've probably looked up to the ministries. Direct arrangements have been made without the application of the prescribed procurement procedures for goods, works and services, additions to contracts have been concluded directly without the implementation of the negotiation procedures for public procurement, etc. So, I conclude it's a lot of conditional opinions. Some subjects make the same mistakes all the time. So they have the same irregularities. In most cases, it is not handled on orders and recommendations from the State Audit Office. We don't know what we own. What we know we don't know what it's worth. So, the situation is worrying. I believe that measures need to be tightened, sharper and more determined to follow unrecommended recommendations and orders. And finally reduce such a large number of irregularities in ministries, local units and everyone else. When order is introduced then there will be efficiency, and then I believe the findings of the State Audit Office will be much more legible and to the greater satisfaction of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5052	Thank you. On this exhibit of yours, they want to replicate two Turtles. First, Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5053	Thank you, Vice President. I want to tell you as head of a local administration, I absolutely agree with you that the situation needs to be tightened. But I think that we should, however, in a certain way, maybe, within the legal powers of some local administrations through some legal provisions to get into that situation, the desired situation to get the unconditional finding of the opinion of the revision that I want, but it's impossible. Gentlemen, it's impossible that one city, but here we have someone here that's possible. I'd like to see how they managed to get an unconditional opinion. If you have in town any city company owned, 100 percent ownership of the city or local administration is impossible to obtain unconditional opinion. Why? Because the audit will always come into this situation if you worked a mile of footstep that you should have called the competition. If you call this company's tender, they haven't paid VAT because of the economic situation or something or they can't satisfy it, or at best someone will come to the competition and they'll get that job, and then the city's company that owns a local administration is going to sit down, and someone else is going to come along like the Vukovar City, and it's going to be out of a job of 500 people. And now you have a burden of responsibility which you do. I have chosen unconditional opinion to strive, but I am satisfied with the conditional, that 500 people from the city of Vukovar will not be fired, that the city's company will not go bankrupt. And I'm aware of a misdemeanor that I used to come by myself once. But I am aware of the violation that these violations I hope that the State Attorney's Office who will question that they will see that I have in no way or anyone else damaged someone because of personal interests, but that this particular interest that we have or that we have discussed to the mayor's assembly, and here as vice president of that association, I highlight the problem of us in the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5054	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5055	One more sentence only. I agree that there is a need to tighten the situation with the ministries, because there is no justification there and I absolutely support the work of you gentlemen auditors.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5056	Now the second replica is Honorable Representative Zeljko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the audit. Just offered these discussions by colleagues Rilja and colleagues from Batinic, perhaps you should consider that this conditional assessment, which is stated in 84.8%, we try to halvate at least. You have units of local self-government that have really got a conditional rating for banal reasons, and on the other hand you have those that are on the verge of some shops that you should actually get an unfavourable or abstentioned grade. And then you put us all in the same basket. And what my colleague said was very difficult to defend afterwards. Plus that public procurement that goes, means where money is turned, which should be transparent, maybe through the review report, a special review should be on public procurement because it's all clean or not. Because we have now started to discuss more about finding audits in local self-government units than in ministries, and one procurement in the ministry without public procurement is the total procurement of all local self-government and county units together. And then we can't get in the same basket. In any case, the recommendation through methodology and through the amendment of the law, I'm not an expert in that part, but in any case, if we were at school, if we got 84% of students 5 or 1 everyone would say that there was something wrong with the teacher. Therefore, we simply have to do this conditional assessment if we do anything else to carve it up or go down to know who it is and what it is to deal with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5058	Thank you. I ask you to keep in mind in the future that you have replicated the basic presentation of your colleague Vanje Posavac, and you have not replicated, you cannot replicate the applicant. Report for an individual hearing and then discuss what you want. We're continuing an individual debate. Honored representative Nada Turina-Đuric. You're giving up the debate? Okay. Then we have a final debate of 10 minutes. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it won't take 10 minutes, just a very short one. I understand this report from the audit, but I don't understand why when in the previous audit the entities gave... a warrant and a recommendation of which 901 44.1% has been made, 61% are in the process of execution, and 1018 or 49.8% of orders and recommendations have not been followed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why is the State Audit? I guess he runs state money control or taxpayers' money. So I'm curious if there's already 40.8% of the warrant and the recommendation hasn't been followed up on what's going to be done to these people? Will they say obey the law, if you don't, you will get a warning, and if you don't do it again, then do nothing further as you did. So if we have a state audit and if that audit finds that it was against the law, then we have to do something to get these people sanctioned or we won't work, we won't have a State Audit, there's no reason for that. I was fascinated, the review found that internal audit operations were not carried out in 4 counties and 7 cities because normative acts were adopted to form an internal audit. Internal auditors have not been appointed or appointed internal auditors have not carried out audit operations. The consequences of a insufficiently effective internal financial control system have, among other things, resulted in irregularities in the operation of local units. So now I'm wondering who's to blame for those audits not being established, who's going to be responsible for that? Or if there's no revision, if there isn't, people can do it again, there's no revision coming there because there's no reason to come or there's no way, there's no possibility or it's just unnecessary. Very briefly, I think most of the problems here seem to be working in the public procurement process. Thus, it says that the revision found that the purchase of goods, services and works worth 20 million 164 thousand 196 kuna was carried out without the prescribed procedures. The most common is services and works for which additions to the basic contract for additional works of greater than 25% were concluded. I thought it couldn't be done, that it couldn't be done in public procurement if it was more than 20%, and it seems here in a lot of cases it was. As regards the public procurement process for the audited local units, 2757 contracts for the purchase of goods, works and services in the total contract value, without the additional value of a billion and 621 million 357 000, etc., and most often irregularities, as well as in state companies, are always mentioned from year to year, this continues from year to year. Therefore, direct arrangements have been made without the application of the prescribed procurement procedures for goods, works and services or additions to contracts were concluded directly without the implementation of the negotiation procedures of public procurement at higher levels than permitted, or certain works were carried out before the conclusion of the addendum to the contract. In a small number of cases, public procurement plans or public procurement plans have not been adopted in line with the planned budget. I remember the V. summons the Parliament, and we also had problems with the State Audit where they try, where they find all the irregularities, but those irregularities seem to be moving from year to year. So here we have a new government, a new government, so let's go see how you're going to revise this, how you're going to get those in charge of applying this law or disobeying this law to sanction them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5060	Thank you, distinguished representative Tomasic. And on this exhibit of yours we have a single replica of the esteemed representative Igor Radjenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is the debate of Mrs. Tomasic, the distinguished MPs, and the whole series of colleagues before she was actually visible and she felt so... Because of this series of irregularities, especially a series of irregularities that are repeated, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's a fracking figure that now I'm not repeating it in more than 50% of the amount that it doesn't respond to the State Audit recommendations and that, in fact, from year to year, these conditional opinions are repeated, which are not responded, without going one step below, to be current, not to go into that junk, but to stay on... To pull one parallel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm obviously saying that message is visible. Partly, and there are before you and the conclusions of the ruling majority club, will try to get things started and what might be a good proposal and recommendations because there has been a lot of debate about local self-government units in the City of Zagreb, a practice has been introduced in the representative body of the City of Zagreb to regularly and necessarily consider the State Audit Report through a committee led by a respected colleague, Kregar. Some of us MPs also sit there, here I am looking at my colleague Rados, I think it was his proposal, and this practice has shown quite well that it has actually been lit up to the citizens along with this debate, with the 8,000 pages you admit here no one has read, but it is good that the representative body opens up this debate and I call on all colleagues, and there are plenty of representatives, but also the executive official, to open up the debate in their representative bodies to shed light on the situation because, as they said, control is the best and lighting up the examples themselves is the best prevention. And then the main tasks of the State Audit will be far better accomplished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5062	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you all what you said, but I hope since you're in power not only to stay on the word, that you'll do exactly what you said, which you're saying because you know that a lot of money went into corruption, you know that corruption is the biggest cancer of the Croatian society, and you know that taxpayers who pay our salaries to ask us to do what they've chosen us to do, and they've just chosen us to stop corruption or to help fight corruption. So let's go right now, I repeat, you're in power, so have a happy trip, and I hope you'll be much more successful in fighting corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5064	Thank you. We thus exhausted the list of applicants for the 2011 report on the work of the State Audit Office. Since the rapporteur does not want to speak finally, we are moving to item 2 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5065	We move to the 2011 report on the report on the work of the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies and SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU, I give the following conclusion: A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2011 and the audit reports for 2010. The conclusions will be discussed, the proposal for a conclusion will be made later. Let's please get involved and vote on accepting the report. Thank you very much. I find that the conclusion was accepted by a majority vote with 107 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. In accordance with the SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU proposal, I am giving the following conclusions: Reports of the State Audit Office shall be submitted to the competent authorities and institutions in order to establish possible criminal and criminal offences. Secondly, it is up to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to submit to the Croatian Parliament a report on established criminal and criminal offences within 90 days on the basis of the State Audit Report. Please, let's get involved and vote. I'm sorry, I'm just consulting so I don't do it again like last time. So there's no argument at the conclusion. It's just a vote. I don't mind just always afraid of precedents, you know we're not breaking the Rules of Procedure. Because when, please don't! Please don't! I'm sorry. I would personally like to hear the remark. Look, you can come, but then I can't. What Madam Vice President just said to me deserves to be discussed at Parliament's Presidency. The application in principle stands, and we will discuss it. Thank you for understanding that we're not opening this right now. Representatives, let's change it right away. Still, that depends now, because this remark is justified. Yeah, I'll tell you now. Therefore, it states here in the conclusion that it is the second one that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit to the Croatian Parliament a report on established penalties and infringements within 90 days on the basis of the State Audit Report. We may not be in charge of this, but I would like to ask the motionary's representative to use a different formulation. So, the State's Attorney's office will report, not be in charge. Do you agree with that? Then that's how we formulate the conclusion. I'll read it exactly now. So he doesn't owe the State's Attorney's Office, etc. Okay? So I repeat the proposal for a conclusion, i.e. conclusions, or in two points. First, according to the SDP, HNS, IDS, HSU's proposal, the following proposals are: 1. Reports of the State Audit Office shall be submitted to the competent authorities and institutions in order to establish any criminal or criminal offences. 2. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia will submit to the Croatian Assembly a report on established criminal and criminal offences within 90 days on the basis of the State Audit Report. So let's get involved and vote. The power's up, we'll wait till it's on. So we're always waiting here. So I find that the conclusions were accepted by most votes, 89 for, 20 abstentions and no one against. We are now moving to a statement on the proposal of the Croatian Labour Party Representatives Club and I am voting on the following conclusions: 1. The Croatian Parliament is asking the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia to submit a special report within 6 months to the Croatian Parliament on the actions undertaken in cases where the State Audit Office carried out during 2010 gave unfavourable opinions (first Municipality of Velika Kopanica, second Children's kindergarten Čakovec and third Faculty of Economics in Zagreb) 2. The Croatian Parliament tasks the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a special report to the Croatian Parliament within 6 months of the date of the date on which the responsible persons were designated for failure to comply with the orders and recommendations of the State Audit Office issued in 2009 and set out in the 2010 audit procedure for the group of entities State budget and budget beneficiaries. Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that the conclusions were not accepted because 74 was restrained, 15 for and 17 against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5066	We move to the 2nd item of the agenda, which is - Report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives for 2010. The State Audit Office submitted this Report on the basis of Article 9. The law on the State Audit Office and Article 32 The Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. You received the proposal in boxes, the government delivered an opinion, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, you received reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Chief State Auditor Ivan Klešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and respected MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates, the Office provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives carried out. The audit covers their financial reports and business reports for 2010. The Law on the financing of political parties and independent lists and candidates, which has been in force since the beginning of 2007 until the end of February 2011, provides for the rights and obligations of political parties regarding the collection of funds from different sources of the issue of certificates of receipts of grants and memberships for the prohibition of funding and concessions, the keeping of records and public presentation of origin and the means of spending on the publication of financial reports and the closure of an account and the obligation to pay in the state budget of anonymous donations and donations above the prescribed amounts. In order to carry out the audit of the financial operations of political parties under the provisions of the same Act, the State Office for the Audit of the Republic of Croatia shall be responsible. As with all other audits, the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives was carried out in the same way. Therefore, according to the procedures laid down in the Law on the State Audit Office, the framework of the audit standards of the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions of INDOSAI and the Code of Professional Ethics of State Auditors. The objectives of this audit were to verify the truthfulness and credibility of the financial reports, to verify the regularity of the acquisition of revenue from the budget, voluntary contributions from membership fees and other sources, and to verify the regularity of the execution of expenditure or whether the financial resources were used solely to achieve the objectives set out in the programme and the Statute. At the beginning of 2011, all political parties who, in accordance with the provisions of the accounting regulation of non-profit organisations, were obliged to submit financial reports for 2011, it is important to stress here that 114 political parties were registered in the Republic of Croatia and that the obligation to draw up and submit financial reports only have those parties that make annual revenues above the amount established for non-profit organisations or if their value is above 100 thousand kuna in the previous three years. At the level of the year and annual income consecutively over the previous three years over 100 thousand kuna. Reports were delivered by 11 parliamentary, 12 extraparliamentary political parties, and 4 independent representatives. In short, I will provide some basic data on financial operations by revising the parties covered and independent representatives for 2010. The proceeds of 11 parties are a total of 115.1 million kuna, the expenditure of 11 parties 94.2 million kuna. Excess revenue over the expenditures of parliamentary political parties in 2010 totalled 20.8 million kuna or 18.1%, noting that the surplus was achieved by 7 and 4 political parties. The deficit has been subdued from the surplus income that has been transferred from earlier years, and is partly planned to settle in the periods to come. The most significant areas in which audits have identified irregularities and failures in political parties relate to the accounting situation, the acquisition of income and, of course, the execution of expenditure. The revenues of 4 independent MPs totalled 1.7 million kuna and all came from the state budget. The expenditures amounted to a million 627 thousand 032 kuna. In the case of independent representatives, there are no irregularities and failures that would affect the truthfulness and reality of financial reports and the regularity of their financial operations. The revision of most political parties also identified an irregularity regarding the use of business spaces, which I must stress, in various locations without compensation. On the basis of contracts concluded with local units and decisions by local units, this was done. As a rule, the contracts were concluded before the Law on the financing of political parties of independent lists and candidates and the law on the financing of political activity and election promotion. Since political parties use premises owned by local units without compensation, the Office requires political parties and units to use or lease business premises in accordance with the provisions of the law on the financing of political activities and election promotions and the law on the lease and sale of business premises. In accordance with the audit standards and in accordance with the usual practice of the State Audit Institution, opinions on financial reports and business of political parties and independent representatives for 2010 have been expressed. For political parties, 6 unconditional and 5 conditional opinions have been expressed, and for all independent MPs an unconditional opinion has been expressed. Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs, in this brief presentation, I have sought to give only one brief emphasis on the relevant data from our basic report. I thank you for your attention, and for all your questions, me and my associates will try to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5068	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first clubs, the first to discuss, appeared the Club of Croatian Labour Labour Party, on behalf of the club will speak the distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5069	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. State Auditor. We've heard a lot here so almost panaegiric commendable words for the work of the State Audit that gives us insight into the data in such a synthesized way that it would otherwise be difficult to come to, we had to make a great effort to know exactly what we're looking for. That's what I'm joining these panegiers for. It's very nice to see that information in one place. But the full work of the State Audit and what it represents for us in Croatian society reminds me of those high-stalled dances, mostly of the Eastern type, applied to financial business. Let's say for the Seaman, the one with the Korčula, you know. They've been dancing that dance, dancing it for a couple of hundred years, and still there since the Maori fight when it made concrete sense, when those sabers were doing something. They dance him today, wave him with their sabers, threaten one another, shout, and no one gets hurt, no one gets cut. And I'm afraid that especially in this part of the review report, the audit work is similar to that of Moreska. No one cut themselves. Some reports are conditional, which means people didn't formally follow procedure. It is known what the revision procedure is and everyone has little experience in business, both in state-owned companies and in institutions knows exactly what the revision is looking at, in what order, which sections, what procedure. And well that makes sense. So someone in the political parties didn't bother to do it either, knowing what to look at and getting a conditional opinion because he got messed up somewhere. If some of those who got a conditional opinion, that same conditional opinion got a year earlier, maybe two years earlier, it can't be seen here, it's only been seen for years, and nothing happened, they waved their sabers again. I know that the State Review is not a state lawyer, the State Audit is not a police officer and the State Audit can't arrest or accuse anyone, but it reiterates the conditional opinion of the same thing in political parties something says about these political parties, something about both the system and the response of the system to the work of political parties. These failures that were found are mostly technical type failures and they don't talk about big money or anything that would embarrass the public. This is a 2010-31/12/2010 report against one of the political parties, and a criminal application was filed in 2010 against HDZ. In all that styled dance, it was perfectly unclear for me that the State Review, despite all the rules and keeping a strict rule, could not have established any black bag, any bag, nothing, anything, but rather gave a conditional opinion because of the failure of this bookkeeping. According to this report, the proceeds of the parties are real. The audit finds nothing illogical in party revenues. They're more or less consistent with state donations and a little income from donors. The expenditures are just as real, nothing strange happened as if we weren't living on the same planet, as if we weren't looking at the same situation. I don't know probably the State Audit can't react to reality but only to papers. If so, at least in this case political parties are not talking about local self-government units and companies. There's a second level of failure. In this case, it doesn't really make any sense. I say, in this business of reviewing the party's financial documentation, the state's attorney has involved, the cashier has told her story, the treasurer is where she is already, and the review goes step by step, establishes a methodology that is internationally recognised, smart, well-designed and finds nothing. After the audit, it's pretty much all right. Most of it. And it's mostly going down most of the way. This discrepancy between what we see around us and what we live in and the paper that's on our benches is actually terrifying. If it doesn't hurt anyone, and if it doesn't scare anyone, then the thing is even scarier. We don't see in this report what the revision thinks about political racketeering, about additions to cash-paying officials, about campaigns that have been spent freely can be said by individual parties and triple, four times the amount they had at all. About the bags, about everything that's happening to us, there's nothing about it here. Croatian Labourists do not consider this important, not relevant document.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5070	The IDS Club's position will be presented by the distinguished representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5071	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief State Auditor, gentlemen of the MPs, representatives of the government. Total revenues of political parties 2010 They were carrying out 115 million kunas. So I'm talking about these 11 parliamentary parties or 11 parties that were represented in Parliament. Now how much money to get me to this discussion from a little bit below the table I don't know, but I know that the political parties in 2010 had no more than 120 million kunas, as we also know that 42000 citizens' associations in the Republic of Croatia in 2010 have a billion and 400 million kuna. For these 42000 associations, as well as for political parties, these billions and 400 million kunas go clearly from the state budget or other budgets. For 11 parliamentary parties from the state budget, 63 million kunas went or were allocated. From the local budget, another 38 million and 310 thousand kuna. That's the data that was published here on page 6. Table one. So it is said that the Croatian Democratic Community from the state budget is earning 27.9 million kuna from the local budget of 11.8 million kuna, the Croatian People's Party Liberal Democrats 2.9 million from the state budget, from the revenues of the local budget of 3.7 million kuna, the Croatian Peasant Party at the time when it had 5 MPs 2 commas or 6 do not take me by word 2.5 million kuna plus 3.5 and that I am not counting any further. The Istrian Democratic Assembly so as not to accidentally skip the state budget of a million 239 thousand kuna, from the local budget of 2 million 399 thousand kuna. In total, let's say I'm talking about the 2009 IDS, we made 3 million 899 thousand 814 kuna. Clearly these 3.9 million kunas are not much, it is not a bit to say on page 15 of this Report, among other things, quote: "In view of the provisions of Article 15. Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists, candidate in force in 2010 and provisions of Article 22. The Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion, which has been in force since March 2011, prohibits the financing of political parties by state bodies, public undertakings, legal persons with public authority, companies and other legal persons on which the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government has shares or shares, as well as public and other institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia and the unit of local regional self-government. It is further stated, given that political parties use commercial premises owned by local units without compensation on the basis of contracts or other acts concluded in earlier years, and that according to the provisions of the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates and the Law on the financing of political activity, electoral promotion is an unauthorized way of financing political parties. The Office orders political parties and local units to use or lease business premises in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political parties, etc. I get and it's more or less everywhere present, I guess from Istria and beyond. I agree, the power in this country comes from I would say in Croatia from that political nomenclature. However, I would also dare say that real power in this country has long been left to convert capital, and something hasty is being created at this point in some other ways. I mean, mostly media houses here. And it is entirely relevant whether it is domestic or foreign-owned houses. Power is safe when we talk about political parties, etc. or politics isn't in this House which is bad in my court. The power was, the power was in the government, the power is in Pantovchak, the power is in large public systems, the power is in the state's attorney's office, the police, the state's administration, the media, whether private or state. The power is in the State Audit Office, but certainly not what I think is bad in this House, which basically only appoints executive decisions. A former secretary of state told me something like this about seven or 15 days ago. So it is more worth five days to be secretary of state in some ministry than to be 5 seats to a representative in the Croatian Parliament. And I believe he's absolutely telling the truth from his experience. And it really bothers me so much when the Parliament is marginalized, which should be sacred to the place of that Croatian parliamentarianism, when it's called, I don't know a chicken or something, because then it sends a bad message, no matter how we address each other. As regards this report, let the reports match the DORH findings, but it should also be said that they are reports for 2010 and not for 2009. And now, if I were to be fair, I should be talking about IDS, 51 branches, 12 employees, in total revenue of 3.9 million kuna, donations etc. I don't think there's any need to overstate some moments here, but what's important is that our state report doesn't differ more significantly than the report of other political parties. So it's clear that we're going to support the audit, but I agree, as my predecessor said, they're one campaign, and the other are real campaigns. One is donations, and the other are actual donations. One is what is shown, the other is simple life, and in fact, the future difference between life and what is shown in the papers must not be. We'll support the report and there's only so much that someone wouldn't say if we hadn't taken part in this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5072	Thank you very much. We'll hear another debate on behalf of the clubs. So on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5073	Dear Vice President, Mr. Chief Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. In the HNS, we consider this discussion of the revision extremely important, i.e. the adoption of the Review Report on the work of political parties, and we believe that before this discussion, that is, before the point that was first today, perhaps this point should be the first. Because it is the political parties that should be a mirror and an example of how we all work and start by ourselves because all the discussions that have been on the revision of the ministries, i.e. the general audit carried out in public services, have been focused on how we are not effective enough in sanctioning these public services which have shown obvious shortcomings in their activities, means, above all, their work in this financial section, and they are in reality, and in most cases, the extended hands of politics, or political parties that act from the ministries to regional and local self-government. And I would disagree with my colleagues from the Croatian Labours and the HNS disagree that this report does not really give the right picture, or that it does not give a picture of how any political party has acted in this segment of financial discipline and organisational discipline within itself because it is very good and very good quality writing if this report is read well. As a party, of course, we welcome the efforts of our audit and the main auditor-in-chief certainly to enter this policy area with a very brave and independent clear attitude, clean policy, meaning the space of political parties, and to make it very clear if nothing else says and states the factual state of their business. We found it very interesting to read these reports especially after some discussions back in the month at this session where most of our colleagues who were in opposition, recently in power, presented a whole series of remarks and were exposed to even some offensive discussions about financial discipline and some future steps that the government, the new Government, would take, and the Parliament would make laws and decisions on certain programmes and projects. In this report on the work of political parties, there are a number of interesting things. So let's say some political parties who held the power of about 12 years of parliamentary democracy in Croatia for most of that time, that is, not only for 4 years, have not been able to draw up basic financial reports, are unable to prove the correct and true data, accounting documents are not signed by legal representatives in that party. Some political parties have not listed their assets, some parties do not charge membership fees for years although they are obliged to do so according to their acts and the rules they have adopted. Very likely those who were in power because they didn't need it. And then that's the story of bags and all the other bad things in those parties because they obviously had other ways to finance, so they didn't need membership fees. It is also interesting, I think, that this is what counterpart Cain said, that most parties besides SDP and HNS use business spaces at different locations, meaning in local self-government mainly based on local unit decisions without compensation. What is certainly interesting is the fact that the two strongest opposition parties are the only ones who are excluded from this, or are paying their business premises. The largest opposition party, here to remind ourselves of this report, is revenueing 43 million and 805,000 kuna and I think someone here said that these are some such small amounts of cash. I think that the amount of $43 million is a very large amount and that there is relatively little among us companies that can boast of such incomes and such traffic, and especially of revenue that more than half of these revenues come from the state budget and the budget of local self-government. So in one section, it's said in the review report that authorized persons didn't control and didn't check certain accounts, signed them, so that's the story we've already had through the media, which is why the DORH and he's filed a criminal report that simply doesn't know what someone was ordering, which is why he's been ordering, and he's been spending budget money, or the money of the citizens of this country. If it's specifically HDZ and it's written, it's actually written in this report. And I think that the competent authorities would have reason to, even if the report was conditional, have reason to, and in any event, a deeper analysis of the work of such parties that behave as such because it is not a matter of state audit or police work, and not of the work of the USKOK or of the State's Attorney's Office. Of course, there are those parties who also predated, were also predated in these elections, very significantly to be participated in the government, and also, according to the findings of this audit, were unable to keep their basic financial documents. Even record quality donors, means financial donations of natural and legal persons and, under the obligation of the Law, report to the public about their donors. When I talked about this part of income, the mass of revenue from the state and local budgets used by political parties and about their relativisation by some of our representatives here to relativise the story of that they are relatively small funds, I think that these are still large funds and that, by the basis of this Report, such fundamental errors in the management of accounting and the finances of political parties should be sanctioned. Because we need to remind ourselves that our craftsmen and entrepreneurs who have such businesses who are spinning about a similar income pay a very high penalty for such basic failures, and according to this audit, nothing likely happened, the financial police at this point do not, therefore, think that this Parliament should also say something about how this story will stop. That is, how such findings must or should come to those bodies that have the possibility of sanctions for failures. It's not a small gap, most of you all, or most of you know how much criminal penalties are paid for such failures if they are determined by the tax administration. And there are gaps in our assessment at the HNS much greater than some entrepreneurs who have to pay very well. What we're trying to say is that first and foremost as a party, we need to move in front of our doors, and that's why I think the debate on our work, that we have to be critical and critical in order for the message to be clear to everyone else. Because if we are not able to do this ourselves as political parties no matter where we sit in opposition or power then it is more or less certain that we are not able to do this for this country or for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, the Croatian People's Party welcomes all the efforts, great effort, the work of state audit, with full respect we have read all your reports and commented them in detail, but what this Parliament needs to stop is that we are talking about the senselessness of thousands and thousands of pages that the State's audit has delivered on our benches and that out of this everything does not come up with a very real guideline for sanctioning what has been reported in these reports as an illegal act, as a violation at least if not even a criminal or criminal offence. Here, in that sense, support for our further work, we all actually have an opinion on how to move to our doors and bring this country, if nothing else is the institution of this country at the level of one civil financial business and a correct relationship with the money we spend, and that's our citizens' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5074	Thank you, too. But here's the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic, who thinks you've made some kind of incorrect allegations, to hear now what an incorrect allegation this is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5075	Not only some incorrect allegation, but it is an incorrect allegation that the representative lady made in connection with the membership fees when she said some parties had no income from membership fees in that section, and that they covered some illegally obtained, supplied funds. This is not true, the only party that has no income from membership is HDSSB, but the State Audit Office has given a maximum assessment, therefore, of the unconditional assessment of the HDSSB by assessing that all the funds that have entered HDSSB’s income are fully legal and legitimate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5076	Correction. Now it's 13 hours and 25 minutes I think it's a good time to stop this session now, we'll continue at 15.00 hours we've got 2 more clubs and 4 MPs reported for a ten-minute debate, with the time to apply for this 10-minute debate running out in 15 hours and 29 minutes. Thank you very much, very good for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5077	The colleagues and colleagues continue to work, means the 2010 report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives. The debate is still on behalf of the clubs. Next in line on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected chief state auditors with your team. You are today on this long-term job of listening to our comments. This is the second of the points concerning the revision. After the first part, the Report on the Financial Audit of Political Parties and Independent Representatives is on behalf of the HDZ Club, and I would say a few things that we think are important for us to point out in considering this report. So, this report was made according to the now former Law on the financing of independent political parties and MPs and it was in some way in its legal framework I would have said narrower and left less scope for audit supervision than the new law passed by the coalition government headed by the HDZ proposed and adopted in this House. It is the Law on the financing of political activities of electoral promotion. And this law may be a better basis for tomorrow's debate on the overall financial supervision or supervision of party financing and campaigns, because it has now, for the first time, separated the regular work of parties through the three current years and that year of election year, when the work and the financing of election promotion are particularly monitored. The law also meant that, in addition to the increased role of the State Audit, to maintain powers and the DIP that oversees the financing of the campaign itself, and that regular work with some additional accessories was still left for the control of the State Audit. What was presented in the debate on this agenda point when some colleagues spoke on behalf of the clubs and were imposed on them certain conclusions from this report and we are forced to draw certain conclusions, but I think that in the end line it is incorrect in this House to talk about the conclusions imposed by the fact that someone has received a bright or less brilliant assessment in the audit findings. What is important is what should apply to all supervisory entities, both local self-government and political parties, in order to seek to obtain the best possible grades for their work and for the transparency of the financing of their business. Whether unconditional opinions or opinions are conditional given the mistakes made over the year that are being supervised, of course it is not, of course, that everyone would want to have unconditional opinions, but I think it is necessary to apostrophe that often a mistake because of accounting failures even without any ill intentions can affect you to get a conditional opinion and thus spoil the picture I would say throughout the year that may otherwise be impeccable to work. Of course, this report is indicative of how to control and monitor and perfect the work and political parties that are at first quite said I would have unseriously approached this job and they organised their accounting and their services in a way that given the observed mistakes and failures they do not do so in the future. In view of all this that has been presented in the report, our wish is that the new law which will be the basis for the 2011 review report should be an even better and even more complete picture of how individual surveillance entities have acted and how far they have managed to bring their business into line with legal assumptions. I note, because of all those who have criticised this report, this 2010 report, everything you've been saying has been related to some years ago. And I believe that we are all heading towards taking over everything that is in some way a suggestion of this report how to improve our business so that it is more transparent and clear and more acceptable to everyone. In view of all of this, the HDZ Club will support the report on the audit carried out and, inter alia, argue that the State Audit Office is even clearer and perhaps more thorough in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5079	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the State Audit Office. Here, as every year, we have a report on the financial audit of political parties made clear and independent representatives for 2010. This report is interesting because, as far as I know for the first time, some parties who have always been and had an unconditional grade now have a conditional assessment. When observing or reading the State Audit report in connection with political parties taking part in the Croatian Parliament, then we see that unconditional opinions on financial reports and business are expressed for the so-called Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, so HDSSB unconditionally, the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian Party of Rights, the Istrian Democratic Assembly, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the Party of Democratic Action of Croatia, the SDA so-called. It is said that conditional opinions for financial operations are expressed for HDZ, HSS, HSLS, Croatian party of pensioners and SDSS. It was the parties that were then as a coalition in power and had executive power. Today is 2012, today they are what they would say in Bosnia's second judge in Banja Luka. But it is also interesting that the 16 pages read as follows: "The conditional opinions on financial reports and business are expressed for the Croatian Democratic Community or HDZ and the withdrawal unconditionally". Whether it was forgotten or subsequently designed to be a conditional opinion, it forgot to delete this unconditionally. It says unconditionally. Cain opens the sixteenth page, and he sees it. What? Yeah. Okay. Next, Bacic knows well. Okay. When it comes to political parties or revenues, pardons, political parties for 2010. Then it is evident that there is no one angry with us to read under the regular number as it is called and stated in the material itself. So the total revenues of the Croatian Democratic Community for 2010 are 43 million and 800 to cut thousands. The SDP compared 38 million and 500 thousand kuna. Croatian People's Party Liberal Democrats 7 million and 700. The Croatian Peasant Party about the same. HDSSB – Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja million and 930 thousand. The Istrian Democratic Assembly of about 4 million, 3 and 900. Okay. So we're talking about the number, when we compare the number of MPs, then the revenue that comes from the state budget is visible, and then there's disproportionateness in some other headings, and then the revenues of the local units' budget are enormous in some parties compared to some other parties who had the same number of representatives. For example, the IDS has 2 million and 400 thousand, the HDSSB has 590,000 revenue from units of local or local units. The expenditures that are also here on page number two show that according to that table when after income is calculated and expenditures then we see that they have to say the rest of the income or in positive are for 10 million HDZ, for a million HNS, the right party one million less, the Croatian Democratic Assembly has balanced 80 thousand in short. IDS plus half a million kuna, SDSS half in plus, half a million kuna and the Social Democratic Party 300,000 kuna. So it is necessary for those who listen or watch or who follow the work of the Croatian Parliament to know what is in these, therefore in our extensive materials and writes. It is clear that the revision and the review report is a set of data that cannot be doubted because it has been carried out by the same method for all political parties, so it is not a problem and to accept such a report. What is further when you look at the very details of the revision of certain parties, which is how I say it intrigued me, which is on page 15 when it comes to this very specific issue of HDZ, it writes about claims and obligations, and in this text it says that it is worth the most significant obligation, so HDZ, for material expenditure, it refers to a commitment to a company from abroad of a million and 800 thousand kuna or 246 thousand euros for a purchased BMW 760LI vehicle. On the basis of the accounts of October 2008 Is that the famous BMW I don't know, but it's probably the one that mentions other actors not only HDZ, and then it further says that there's been a sale to the seller, selling two other BMW vehicles one for 196500 and one for 50,000. It says so, so the State Audit recommended the party to propose, to make a breakthrough of mutual claims and obligations that the party has promised to do. Here's a really good, nice example of how to solve the actual revision of one of the parties. It doesn't matter who it is. The HDSB club, as I said, was audited according to the standard method for all parties and according to the State Audit Act, and the Law and on the financing of political parties will accept the State Review opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5081	Thank you very much. This misunderstanding may be a colleague of Grubisic from local level. So it depends on local mandates not on the number of MPs. We understand. It's okay. Yes, yes, go ahead. I'll open up some more, you've got time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5082	Thank you very much for this suggestion. So at local level, if you were to sum up everything that brings to the parties, therefore, income from the local level, so representations in municipal councils, in city councils, county assemblies, then you would see differences in amounts that individual units of local self-government and regionally single out for political parties. So, do you think there are fewer representations in the representative bodies and in the executive authority, let's say, HDSSB, which has in the area of the entire Slavonia or one IDS?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5083	It all depends on the decisions of the city's bodies. Thank you very much. Next for discussion on behalf of the Club of Representatives, a gentleman appeared in front of the Croatian party of pensioners, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5084	Dear Mr. Vice President, honored gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It is always a matter of discussing the revision, of all the audits, and of the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives of the purpose and objective to achieve. We have a lot of findings here, a situation that happened in 2010 which is already quite passing since we now have new legislation, new elements that have entered the whole system. What I personally miss in all these audits is what to do to make our system simpler, more transparent, more functional, possible revision faster and easier. But we still can't go from assuming that all the actors in this story are in the same condition. The SDP has one giro account, HDZ has 21 giro accounts county or 22 have no idea, the HNS has 22 accounts, HSU has started since I'm the president with 180 giro accounts because we've made our local officials decide on their assets from the city and municipality budgets, and that story cannot possibly be the same. The SDP will get an unconditional opinion because it has everything under control. I should be the one to turn upside-down the party that was set up and built in another way to get an unconditional opinion. It just doesn't work. It is not good for me to have such a system of financing of political parties and such audit requirements turning the whole system upside down and the life of the party. Of course we do everything to please and we've been positive about all the findings, we're trying extremely hard to get to the original documentation, but know that some times it's very difficult to reach a solution of the municipality and the city about the party's income per councilman. They just don't give. You know that this year we were looking specifically in Zagreb County and we brought you the information that we sent in the mail, that we sent in so many requests and we could never get an answer to that question. Therefore, these are some of the details that are objective circumstances that these audit reports will not be unconditional in the future. I will, in some ways, be pleased if they are at this or something better level because it is an important trend as it is already said here that surely from year to year this report on the financial audit of political parties is getting better, better and better. This thing won't work overnight because it's not just us in that story. Gentlemen, I have a case that our former colleague Mr. Stipe Gabrić Jambo paid HSU in the town of Metkovic, that was in 2009, 54 thousand kuna because he thought he was paying the Association of Retirers for the trip no'. You know who paid 54 thousand kuna? You mean, of course the pensioners were on a trip, but 54 thousand kuna in the state budget paid HSU. So it's only here that the party blames everything, not the one who caused this whole position. And she was challenged by a Mr. Mayor who just so carelessly paid money to someone he couldn't pay money to. So the responsibility here is one-way, no other actor. ... Of course they were on a trip and the state budget was coming in. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, the pensioners satisfied, the state budget satisfied, the only one who pulled out the thick end is HSU, right? And that's our reality. So of course we're going to try, but I'd like to talk from this place about something that we have today, what's going on today. I can understand what Mr. Mlakar said that the intensity of the new Law on the financing of electoral promotion was to make everything transparent, but we describe to you this reduction effort from 180 accounts to 80 accounts, while asking that each party in each municipality, in every city regardless of whether to go to elections in the coalition or to open its own special jury account. And for local elections we will have to open 500 local accounts, or 300, 200 depending on how many seats we go to for local self-government elections. Does that make sense? So these local elections are seen through regular party funding. Well, it can't go past that. What do we get from those 200, 300, 500 special accounts? Today we have extraordinary elections in Lokva, Klis, Ilocka will not receive, we go to coalitions, they won't receive lists, or they'll give us three days to open a special account, and that's every party's special gyro account that may not go through any kunas. People, does that make sense? Does that make sense? So when we write laws or write one law, let's catch it all together or let's give some freedom to the State Election Commission so they can accept the bill of one coalition, so they can accept the account of the party that all this has to go through. Let's do it another way, but let's not do a circus. We bureaucratize, we do our jobs to deal with ourselves alone, not what we're chosen for, and that's public business. Furthermore, this is a report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives carried out. Where are the unparliamentary political parties here? Do you think everything is transparent there, do you think that if they have 100 thousand kuna per year that there can be no payment of units of local self-government knowing that no one controls them? If this is a report on the financial audit of political parties carried out, and they are political parties and non-parliamentary political parties are political parties that are subject to the financial audit and I think it must become a rule that all the finances that go through all the political parties have to be covered by the state audit or by the financial audit of the work of all political parties. The kitchen can also be at lower levels not only for parliamentary parties, you well know that there is something called party financing just to go to elections to crush the electoral body. Some people, some parties act and live only before the elections, will never become parliamentary, who financed them, whether they work because of their motivation to change the political system of Croatia or someone paid them in some way. I think the time has matured for us to expand this story to the financial review of all political parties and to bring the whole story about the financing of political parties and independent representatives to a single package and give the State Election Commission more authority to make life decisions so that we don't complicate our lives. For the parliamentary elections, my dears, we shared a 10 bill in the coalition, each election unit, each party had to participate in part of the account, what is this all about? Is that necessary? That one joint coalition account could not be opened and as if it had to be in kuna equal consumption in one or another constituency. Well, one and the other constituency doesn't have equal numbers of cities and municipalities, one has to do more election promotions in the other smaller. We're obsessing everything into some kind of math that someone imagined and life is something different. I suggest that you be respected, gentlemen of the state audit, to be active participants regardless of what may not work because you are independent, you must preserve your independence, but you have the right to make suggestions that we all together build a better system that can be easily controlled and that does not complicate all our lives together. No matter what I said, the Croatian Party of Retirement will support this report because it is realistic and objective and there is nothing to add and take away, people have done their job properly, have been commensurate with all our difficulties and have been in some way very professional but it was a pleasure working with people from the State Audit and I think we could all learn something new every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5085	Thank you. We have a correction to the quote, Mr. Representative Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5086	I thank Mr. Vice President, so at the end of this sentence I would like to correct how this report was thorough, how to read out of it, I would rather say that this report is in line with Socrates' saying that it is better to know a little bit more useful than much but useless. Because if in this report on the financing of political parties after all the affairs that have been discovered, one party now in court gets a conditional opinion then I, this time speaking for HDZ, then I am concerned about the usefulness of these documents that come before us, indeed. The whole of Croatia knows what happened and we in the State Audit documents see that both HDZ and four other parties have received a conditional opinion. I don't think it's any use to you or to the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5087	The debate on behalf of the clubs is over, and we're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. Mr. Brano Vuksic picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5088	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Certainly not the best movie, but Stanley Kubrick's last movie was called "The Eyes Closed". This review report looks like the title of that movie to me. It's eyes wide closed, we all look and we don't see anything, and we all know everything, and we don't want to notice what's going on. Unfortunately, through closed eyes and in the House, no one insisted that what we all knew, that what the media had been saying for years that campaigns cost more money than it was shown in the reports, whether they were presidential, whether they were parliamentary, or local, no one was doing anything. The eyes are wide closed in the government, in the audits, in the police, in the state's attorney's office. It's amazing that the media could calculate, that they could look at the papers, the state's audit says they're only looking at the papers, what it says in the papers, and you can see if that report in the papers is real. No, it's virtual, that paper report has nothing to do with reality, it's virtual reality, and we're estimating here I've heard of dozens of colleagues that all the audits are very well done. Because the audits say that what was written in the papers on virtual papers is good. And if we estimate that what they saw is a good thing that we're going to be audited. In fact, such audits have no meaning, something needs to be changed and a way of reviewing and the laws they respect and auditors. The audit must warn if it wants to be effective on illogicality, which certainly points to black bags and robbed Croatia. I see colleagues laughing at the table there because it's illogical because it says in the laws that all they need to do is get the papers in sync and we need to praise virtual reality here. Unfortunately, Croatia is on its knees, and it is not what the auditor reports say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5089	Thank you very much. Next for individual debate Mr. Representative Joseph Kregar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next representative of Mrs. Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5090	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, these reports on the audit of political parties and independent representatives are extremely important. Mostly because political parties primarily spend public money, so Croatian taxpayers and taxpayers have the right to know how that money is spent. Whether it seems legal or illegal. In 2010 the revenues of 11 parliamentary political parties whose operations were subject to the audit amounted to 115 million kuna, with 101 million or 88% of that money coming from that budget. So it's about public money. 55% of the revenues achieved were alluded to from the state budget and another 33 from the budget of local units. The independent representatives of the four who were also subject to the revision had 1.7 million kuna, with almost the total amount of these funds being obtained from the state budget. How did the State Audit Office assess the financial operations of political parties and independent representatives? Of the 11 revised political parties, 6 received unconditional opinion, while five received a conditional assessment. Interestingly independent MPs all received unconditional opinions. What is important is the question of how two of the largest political parties have been evaluated. Why is that the most important thing? Well, because these two biggest political options have 82% of the total funding of parliamentary political parties. In previous years, these two political parties received unconditional opinions, and I think that was a good one, even saying an excellent message to the Croatian public. However, in the 2010 audit report, things have changed. Since one of the major parties has received a conditional opinion. Transparency of political party financing is extremely important precisely because of citizens' trust and therefore there are sanctions on both political and criminal ones. And speaking of political sanctions for the non-transparentity of the financing of political parties, I must say that those in the countries developed democracy are actually much more severe than that in Croatia. So there political parties that financed their campaigns with criminally acquired money are sanctioned in a way that in the next election cycle they cannot actually participate in the elections, they must pause. So they have to do it for a certain time in order to paint it in purgatory and to repent their political sins. Where did the most heated political parties, or where did the State Review detect the largest number of irregularities? Unfortunately, these areas are the same as in previous years, so just as we heard about the revision of other public money users. It is therefore that political parties have an inefficient internal control system, namely found in five parties, do not adopt annual work programmes and annual financial plans. The two political parties did not draw up any basic financial reports for the party as a whole, and three did not show accurate and true data in the financial reports. Bookkeeping documents which are the basis for recording business events shall not be signed by the legal representative or the accounting documents shall not be controlled prior to the entry of the data into the accounts. In addition, 5 parties did not, therefore, cover, by inventory, the entire assets and liabilities or the compliance of the accounting situation with the real situation. Only assets of the party's central property but not its organisational units are listed mainly. The three parties have no record of their claims to the units of local self-government that they owe you. The parties do not register membership fees even though they are the source of a small part of their income or take measures to collect that same membership fee. The parties do not account for depreciation, use of commercial premises owned by units of local self-government without compensation, etc. would be given quite a number. What is my point is that the previous years on the report on the audit of political parties carried out were regularly presented data on the number of orders and recommendations which the Office of State Audit imposed on political parties to remove certain irregularities identified in the audit procedure, so this time it seems to me that I did not find it, at least I did not find it, and I read the report carefully. And it is precisely this data that is also a good indicator of the behaviour of political parties at the disposal of taxpayers' money. In the end, I will say that despite this observation, all other data in the report point to one major, educational importance of the State Audit Office, resulting in a significant reduction in the number of irregularities and illegalities in the financial business of most political parties, with the exception of several of those that are actually there for the State Office for Auditing Hard Nuts. One word began to achieve the purpose of adopting the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion, which is more order in the finances of political parties, which should ultimately result in more trust and better perception of political parties and policies in general by Croatian citizens or by taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5091	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first to report was a representative of Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished colleague noticed a very important thing, which is that we are also discussing Croatian citizens' money here. Because the large, almost large part of the money that goes to finance all political parties refers to both the funds and the state budget as well as the funds of units of local and regional self-government. But what is especially important here is the way these opinions are assigned. I will quote, conditional opinion is expressed when there is doubt in one or more positions in financial reports that is significant but not decisive to understand financial reports. And now listen well. This conditional opinion points to a positive opinion, but also to a clear emphasis on the reason why the conditional opinion is given. If, after all, I am speaking again, what we have witnessed in recent years, HDZ could get a conditional opinion that is almost a positive opinion then what should have been done to get an unfavourable opinion. Here's what my colleague Grubisic said. Just an example of the BMW. Is it not true that no one sees the frantic fact that the commitments towards those from which the BMW was purchased in 2008, 2009 into the euro 246500 euros, are sold to the same two used vehicles. If this was not a sign for the public auditors to turn on the lamp that something was wrong, forward it or give an unfavourable opinion on it. I think there were a thousand reasons to give unfavourable opinions, then I don't know what should have been done. And you said instead, you suggested to the party to make a breakthrough between claims and obligations. That's why you didn't have to do a report like this and send it to us, just spend these papers that don't say anything about what Croatian citizens expect, which is to find out the truth. And finally to find out not only who's to blame but also who's to get the money back. [[Attack Batinić: Representative, it's time!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5093	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Jelish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5094	According to the State Audit Act, therefore the audit controls available, i.e. accessible documentation and its report is based on objective data. So the State Audit Office doesn't control, I don't want to be a lawyer right now, but so it doesn't control black funds and it doesn't bring its opinions on the basis of any judgments or suspicions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5095	Thank you. We had another replica, Mr. Damir Cain's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5096	My colleague said that they are much stronger, and I quote reactions in Europe than in Croatia. Well, I'd say they didn't. The truth because of this bankruptcy of Ireland at this moment how many opportunities we have to monitor in the media watch these TV shows is being tried by the Irish Prime Minister. But for the last 20 years in Europe other than Chirac, I think almost no prime minister has been tried. Chirac was the French prime minister. The Croatian prime minister is on the indictee's bench today, INA, FIMI Media, which I know, BMW as it's all called Khol for something similar to the unification of Germany had to give up further political engagement. But what am I saying? As many court proceedings as there are currently in the Republic of Croatia probably not or have never been in any European country. Now whether all your processes will bear fruit, whether the DORH will succeed in these accusing proposals or not, it remains to be seen. But once again, I want to say that, after 20 years, something called State's Audit, State's Attorney's Office, etc. It's working. It's good that all of this teaches us in some order, it's bad. If someone fails to prove their guilt that innocent people are being carried out on the defendant's bench and de facto, at one point, has extinguished any possibility that anyone in this country is investing, working, triggering any economic activity. In one word, I think we should also support the DORH, that we should also support the State Audit. And I agree with Mr. Buric who says it's not only important to judge but to return the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5097	Thank you. That's why we've exhausted all the people we've reported. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. The vote will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5098	We move to a statement on the 2010 report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The report on the financial audit of political parties and independent representatives for 2010. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, 107 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5099	We're moving on to the next point. It is - Report on the audit of the efficiency of the management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia You received the material. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance, the State Budget and the Committee on Justice. You've also received reports. Do you propose, Mr. Klesic, do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office, the Office provided the Croatian Assembly with a report on the audit of the effectiveness of the management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. The performance audit as a type of audit is carried out in developed countries for 20 years, as it is estimated that, in addition to financial audits and audits of business regularity, it is necessary to verify whether the audit entities managed public assets in the best possible way with a view to achieving a greater general good. For these reasons, the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions of ITOSAI has developed standards and guidelines for carrying out the performance review in the financial audit and review standards. And our Office recognized the justification of carrying out an efficiency review, and in the last year it carried out two performance audits. According to audit standards, two questions should be answered each performance review. First, whether it's done the right way, whether it's done the right thing. I think the Office in both audits has given the right answers to these questions. On the revision of the efficiency of management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, I will say the following. The subject-matter, objectives and methods of this revision are determined on the basis of the previous evaluation of the business space management system. The audit procedures focused on the activities carried out by state budget users in real estate management with an emphasis on the business premises used and managed by the ministries. Such a choice has also been made on the basis of an assessment that there is a possibility of saving and increasing revenues, i.e., of course, the opposite of cost reductions. Two main objectives of the revision have been set and these are to assess the effectiveness of management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, and to assess the appropriateness of the development of the institutional and legislative framework, including the eyewitness of the property. On the basis of the facts established, the Office assessed that management of the business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia is not effective. It also assessed that there are major irregularities and failures in the carrying out of property management operations and that appropriate measures should be taken to increase the efficiency of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia's assets. It is important here to note that the office evaluated the management system of business spaces, not individual business events. For example, these examples are mentioned only in order to support the conclusions and recommendations of the revision while individual business developments on state property management have been described in the reports carried out in the audits of ministries and the Central Office for State Property Management. In view of the above, he proposed to the ministries and other competent authorities first to establish and demonstrate the legitimate interest of the Republic of Croatia in obtaining real estate, to ensure the rational and effective use of State budget funds and to make a decision on acquisition or purchase after the purpose of real estate has been established. Then, for purchase facilities which are not in use and require significant investments in order to arrange, draw up an assessment of the costs of bringing the facility into operation and, on the basis of the cost assessment, make a decision on taking a commitment to the burden of the state budget for the future period. Then, when concluding a contract on acquisition or purchase, agreeing that the holder of the right to ownership of the Republic of Croatia is and obtaining from the competent State Attorney's Office an opinion on the legal validity of such contracts. Then, when purchasing, act in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and record the purchase value of the assets in the accounts in accordance with the legal regulations. Before the sale, it is also necessary to establish whether a business space is necessary for the installation of other state administration bodies and the sale of property owned by the Republic of Croatia on the basis of an earlier public tendering procedure rather than a direct contract on the basis of the customer’s request. Then, regarding the lending of commercial premises, the authority responsible for the management of state assets should identify the needs of the Republic of Croatia for the business space, determine the purpose of available business premises and, with a state-owned business space, primarily meet the needs of state institutions and provide complete and accurate information on the assets for effective management, determine how budgetary users should report on state-owned assets. The Office also assesses that the implementation of the recommendations referred to in our report would help increase compliance with laws and other regulations and certainly increase the effectiveness of the property management system owned by the Republic of Croatia. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honourable MPs and MPs in this opening statement, I just wanted to point out only the important information from our report. Any questions your here we will try to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5101	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? There isn't. Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on Justice. If not, I'm opening a debate. There's a club debate first. First on behalf of the IDS MP, Mr Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5102	Dear Mr. Vice President, Chief State Auditor, Government Representatives, Honorable Mr. Representatives. Here on page 4, it is literally about models and criteria for the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia. So it is said: it can be a sale of real estate, it can be a purchase of real estate, a donation of real estate, an assignment to the use of business premises and other real estate bodies of state authorities, associations etc., and a clear lease of real estate and others, then it is said, as necessary, in accordance with the regulation on decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Commission for the Property of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've had so many so-called so-called years ago. The Committee for Government of the Republic of Croatia, today we have a so-called AUDI or State Asset Management Agency that replaces this commission, but what's the point is certainly this table on page 8 or Table No. 1. where sales and lease revenues are being made, and revenues for the purchase and lease of business facilities are made. Then a review is given from 2007 to 2010. So it's said that the proceeds from the sale of assets, or business facilities in 2007, were about 30 million kunas, so that I'm not reading all these figures now, in 2010, it was 15 million kunas. Income from the lease, what the Croatian government or this AUDI or this commission leased to someone in 2007. Seventy-two million kuna, 2010. 97 million kuna, and what is interesting are the expenditures which per year for the purchase of business premises amounting to cca 639 million kuna in 2007 to 491 million kuna in 2010 and expenditure on the leases 2007. 361 million kuna, and 2010. 536 million kuna, usually moving in positions of approximately 1 billion kuna. So the total revenues per year were about 100 million kuna, so from the sale of business facilities and leases, and the expenditures of the vis-a-vis purchase of business facilities and expenses for the rents of cca 1 billion kuna. On page 9, we have some other tables, so here we're talking about business spaces that are assigned to use and the number of employees in individual ministries, but these are, say, these facilities that the state assigned, so that's less important. And really, if I wanted to say that, or that in the last five years not to say, but two years of lease funds, or expenses for the purchase of business spaces that moved in amounts of cca billion kuna, were allocated to the construction of, say, an administrative centre, it doesn't matter on Savi or somewhere else in this town, we could have all the inaccessible spaces in our own possession, and for years, we could concentrate all the premises clearly in one place. I don't mean these historic spaces like the Parliament, like the government over there in the Ban Courts, the Constitutional Court building, but all the other facilities de facto could have been in one place. For one billion kuna, you can get somewhere around 100,000 square meters or square meters of business space. But what is even more important than that is reflected in the fact that this could trigger a huge, powerful building activity. I repeat, once again, the annual state for the purchase of business facilities and for the leases is more than one billion kunas, there were years as they were in 2008 and 2009, when these amounts exceeded 110 million kuna. The question arises as to who is paying for this money, I say, not to argue, but I know these are tycoons who have acquired something for nothing from the country in 91, 92, which they clearly do not need today, and now, for the purposes of certain ministries, they rent this space to the state or to certain authorities. If it wasn't for me knowing crazy, I think it would be just ridiculous. Only for the purchase of business facilities and rents, the state allocated 4.2 billion kuna from 2007 to 2010. So from 2011, it's about $5.5 billion. For renting over, we set aside about 2 and a half billion kuna in that period, this second, out of 2.5 billion kuna, that's probably the cost of getting business space. So something like that was mentioned by the state's chief auditor. From this lease should be tried it is not so simple, it cannot be achieved overnight, it should somehow give up as soon as possible and reroute those funds to the construction of an administrative centre on Savi and it would be even better to decentralise Croatia and if several ministries would move it from the capital and settle it in one Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Pula for defenders in one Vukovar, why not, for one defender to be one ministry, from there comes Mr Matic in Vukovar. Money means we see for those purposes he has. I repeat once again that for these purposes, the countries at the annual level stand out 1 billion kuna. On page 14, what is also interesting is the sale of business premises, i.e. on page 15, and then it is said that the value of the business space is shown in the specific books of the Office on 31 December 2009, which was 751.7 million kuna, refers to 1608 business spaces of which 980 are owned by the Republic of Croatia, and 628 are co-owned. In the City of Zagreb there are 1025 business spaces, 583 are located in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. According to the office’s data or records, only 6 business premises have been sold for which purchase contracts worth millions and 704 thousand kuna have been concluded for all normal contracts. The Croatian State Attorney's Office gave a positive opinion, etc. Why do I ask myself an open question? Local self-government is not subject to the same rules as the state. Clearly impoverished... let's say the tenants of 2012 won't even think about buying any business space from any city or state, because there's no money for that, but why, despite the fact that we have that law that is de facto inconclusive about buying out these business spaces, local self-government doesn't want to predominate such a possibility. Even I'd say better if no one buys anything because if they buy it, then we're going to take a year's tax on property and somebody else is going to pay that tax, but let's put that joke aside. But on the other hand, as we know, we simply gave the tycoons factories, we made it possible for foreigners to get to business banks, we allow farmers why not to come to the country, to come to incentives, we gave doctors an office, we allowed the workers to say again, why not, to acquire those 400 thousand social apartments, we gave private investment funds to get hotels, now we will sell Croatian insurance, we sold the Croatian postal bank yesterday to Telecom, INA to Hungarians, and the only thing that terra incognito is these small business premises of these small shops in cities which the notes were not built, I would dare tell those cities, but those cities through the "attle" in that regime there after 45 or through... property came to these business spaces. Today these tenants who are in these business areas and want to have nothing to buy the space they work in, but I say as no peasants without their country so there are no craftsmen craftsmen without their business space. This lease is simply one solution temporarily but certainly cannot be permanent and the question of what can then be with that second or third generation of that tenant, that craftsman, that craftsman and the like. I don't think that's fair, but it's just like that today. What does it mean, for example, to sell a bank? So let's say it's a Croatian postal bank, I say we deprive ourselves of the last attempt to think about a monetary sovereignty. The activity of business banks in the Republic of Croatia is somewhere around 400 billion kuna that is 1 whole gross social product, 92% and is active in the hands of foreigners who would probably go wrong do what she did there in 2001. The Landes bank when it returned the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia for 1 kuna. I'm convinced that on the other hand I don't know, one Post Office has certainly 100 businesses across the Republic of Croatia, I suppose in every major city. Croatia's insurance must have 200 of these businesses throughout the Republic of Croatia. I don't know, two, three, five, ten people depend. Clearly in one Buzet less and in one Zagreb far more, but in Zagreb there are far more space than in a small Buzet. Page 19, there's been another table given to us, gentlemen, which may be in collapsing with this on page 8, but even that doesn't matter too much. On page 19, 334.7 million kuna was paid for the 2009 lease, on page 8 469. It doesn't matter. It's a lot of one, but the other. But this side 19 is interesting because of the following, according to the number of business spaces per ministry, so it is said that the Ministry of Finance uses two such spaces, the Ministry of Health, social care as many as 21 in different places, Ministry of Regional Development 19, Ministry of Environment 36, spatial planning and construction, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development 27, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 34, etc. Clearly, this is the new government found and here in that place something will probably be done. Finally, instead of renting, I think you should think about building one of those centers somewhere in this town or somewhere else. Small spaces de facto mean nothing to local self-government or the state, so it should be fairly appreciated by the tenants. Now they're going and selling these four major shipyards, three of them are for Concara, one to the DIV. Maybe you should discuss this Parliament, be my henhouse no, it doesn't matter, but through the Parliament, the public will hear something, and this is how it will be brought or finished or brought to an end. All in all, I think it's good that we got this report on the audit carried out and the efficiency of management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. There has been a lot of writing about this in the last weeks and in the Croatian press, and I think the comments, the recommendations of the main state auditor, are correct when I warn that this lease problem should also be addressed in a different way in the future. I want to believe that a new coalition or government will face this problem anyway, and until then it is understandable that this report should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5103	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, a representative of Mr Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5104	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, chief auditors. These reports are mostly boring, they're hard to read, mostly I can see myself being thrown into pieces. However, the report on the audit carried out and the efficiency of management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia is an extremely interesting reading. It's a great writing. A good director on this template could make an intriguing scenario and make a hit film about the underground action of the political and bureaucratic superintendent. It wouldn't be a comedy for Vinko Breshan. It would be a tragedy for Brank Schmitt. This is about a billion kuna. That's almost 1% of the VAT increase. Half of it, according to the report, is irrational spending. The state hires expensive ones and rents cheap ones. The rent is more expensive than buying space. This report was to be sent first to Mladen Bajic, but Bajic from the working phase rather than the calculator phase. Real estate management must be said to be public, predictable, effective and responsible, everything that is not now. The proceeds from the sale and lease of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia in 4 years are 112 million and 500 thousand kuna. The cost of renting and buying space amounts to a billion and 27 million kunas. Renting or buying inadequate bad spaces. At the same time, the Republic of Croatia has a large unused number of properties owned. The cost of rents in 4 years has increased by almost 50%, 48.6%. There are no clear criteria for allocating the use of business spaces. The criteria for buying space are even greater unknown. There's a lot of room to buy and there's no real reason for that. They're bought to buy, to please the one who needs to be sold. On only one such purchase, the state paid 360,000 euros more than it should have, according to auditors. In addition, this overpaid facility, 362,000 euros, is not in use and is not being used until today, but is being paid. The premises are rented at multiple prices. The premises are rented on 10-year deadlines without a clause on possible reduction in rent prices. As a general rule, the price of the rent is practically increased regardless of the market when the renting state increases. The audit has proved that for a lower price than five-year space rental, a better and more functional space could be purchased. The state's attorney's office has to react to this report because it actually all says here how much taxpayers' money and money are estranged from the budget. It's equally scandalous that the state doesn't know what it owns. The left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing, it doesn't know how much space there is in the cities, how much space there is in which ministry. The government has not accepted a single amendment to the budget because it needs to be saved, and here you can see hundreds of millions of kunas are being thrown into the report. What makes the state budget users rent each other a business space? The State body should grant state space to those budgetary users who will benefit from it, those users who need space. Where a State rents state space under favourable conditions for market purposes, the area should be general social rather than making extra profits at significantly lower rental prices at the expense of taxpayers. In Split, the Ministry of Defence has 4.5 thousand metres of empty space, while at the same time the Ministry of Agriculture leases 511 square meters for 18 euros per square metre, which is more than overrated. In 6 years, at least 773 square meters of space, the state paid 80% more than the market price as if it had bought that space. We need to control all the leased premises, we need to review all the purchases of space in the last ten years, because it's without any doubt about another robbery. That kind of robbery shouldn't go out of date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5105	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club, representative of Mrs Vesna Fabiančić Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and the Chief State Auditor. There's another audit ahead of us. Here is the report on the audit of the efficiency of management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia and refers to the period from 1. September 2010 to 20 October 2011 The SDP Club will accept that report, as it is a comprehensive way of assessing how business premises are managed, but at the same time the proposed measures and recommendations are proposed to increase efficiency. The audit process focused on the activities carried out by the public budget users in order to increase the efficiency of real estate management with an emphasis on the business premises they use and managed by the ministries and results. They're slightly defeating. Why? Namely, asset management implies, I think it's all of us and clearly the largest possible increase in income and cost control. Because in the property management process certain types of income and expenditure are realised. The fact that revenues from the sale of business facilities and leases from 2007 to 2010 are moving annually in amounts of about 100 million kunas we have already heard in previous discussions but obviously this is the information that is giving everyone eyes, and the cost of purchasing business facilities and rents annually about a billion kunas is indeed alarming because it is known that the Republic of Croatia has a large number of properties owned by which a significant number is not used to carry out the activities of state institutions. In particular, the costs for the 2010 leases are as high as 48.6%, so almost 60% higher than in 2007. Most ministries carry out business activities in the premises allocated for use. It is apparent from the data that the criteria for the award of use are not uniform. The audit found that more business space was allocated to individual ministries than necessary, that they had leased business premises to other authorities of the state administration or other natural and legal persons with or without compensation while at the same time some bodies had all or most of the leased space. In the case of acquisition of real estate, the basic criterion is the legitimate interest and assessment of the Tax Administration verified in parallel with the market prices of real estate. Although the Budget Law required the Government to prescribe, within 120 days, a methodology for preparing an assessment of the implementation of investment projects that purchases on wars and years of financial lying, and acquisition of purchases is mainly carried out through these models of determining the legitimate interest and the assessment procedure is not prescribed until today. This principle describes negligence and irresponsibility in the management of assets of high value, and when it comes to the analysis of examples of acquisitions of some valuable properties in 2009 then it is difficult to find adequate words to express disrepute for irresponsibly irresponsiblely dare to say and punishable behavior. It's hard to meet only the assessment that the management of the property did not behave as a good master's flaw. There's a lot of work to be done for the State's Attorney's Office's intervention. We heard in the introduction of the motionary, or chief state auditor, said we were not dealing with individual examples. We have set some examples to support this assessment of effectiveness. Well, I didn't either, so I won't look back on all the examples. I'm going to give one, now I don't know if it's eclastane, because each of them is in their own way amazing, but here's one of them. With the agreement of the Government to take on the burden of State budget funds for the period from 2010 to 2019. So for 10 years then, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy took up a financial lease of 270 m2 for a total fee with a value added tax of 11 and a half million euros. So, a monthly meal of 110000 euros. A huge amount of money in the long run, and what preceded this legal job? The business space is not in use and needs to be restored, and there is no, of course, assessment of the eligibility of the investment for such huge money. No public competition has been carried out for the purchase of financial services, and the price achieved is multiplely higher than the estimated price. In the provisions of the contract, it is a provision that the ministry may, once it fulfils its financial obligations, exercise the right of ownership, and we know that the owner can only be a state. No opinion on the validity of this legal transaction has been obtained from the State Attorney's Office and the State's interest has not been demonstrated in the acquisition of real estate. And what is more, from 6 months 2009 until the end of 2009, they were not met with obligations or shown in the Ministry's business books. And after all this boasting and illegality in spending taxpayers' money, the same ministry only months after the completion of this and such forward-deposited job gets to use space, part of the defence ministry's building that is enough to accommodate all administrations of the ministry. The fact that the Government has transferred the rights and obligations of financial rental to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development cannot cover irresponsible behaviour of non-response of legitimate state interest to buy unusable space for large money. Before giving consent to the Government's lease, of course, it did not care about a good master as I said and checked the possibility of obtaining the possibility of using a business space owned by the Republic of Croatia. Finally, not including other examples of property management practices, that business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia are leased at lower prices than those taken on lease, that state space users are paying each other a rent, that the legal person is renting real estate without compensation and from the same legal person taking property into account under market conditions, that we have an empty space of one ministry, and the other ministry in the same city is taking into account the fact that the management of state property was not even rational, that there was a lot of illegality and irregularities. The SDP club therefore supports all the proposed measures and recommendations of the State Audit Office in order to achieve significant savings and increase efficiency in the management system and will adopt such a report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5107	Thanks a lot to the SDP club. The next word came from Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief State Auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. For years, the public has been guessing that the state is ruling what it was entrusted with a single social contract, and the social contract as an unwritten document was signed by citizens when they founded the state. So, that it masters in a way that its institutions treat the state property recklessly, stop, arrogantly and certainly not guided by principles and in the manner of a good master. And in recent years, a whole series of cases have been brought to the media to support such a single suspicion that here we would experience for the first time that the State Audit is doing an extremely important job, which is to finally make an insight into how the state is benefiting from the property entrusted to it, how it relates to the funds and whether it's money or real estate, and in this particular case, business spaces. And that report definitely confirms that everything that's been speculated in public, which has been trying specifically to prove on examples not only is it true but it's much worse than that. If one sentence summed up this entire report, it would read: the state was very irresponsible and wasteful at the time of the biggest economic crisis on property entrusted to it by its use, in a very irresponsible, arrogant, wasteful and illogical manner, according to the rules and the principle of good governance. That's how it testifies to a whole series of facts that he's picking up and this report. The state owns more than a thousand of its own business spaces that nobody uses at all. Not only are they not used, and by doing so, they do not bring any of the single lip to the state budget, but these spaces because they are not being used are failing and they are rapidly falling in value. It doesn't matter if you have to edit some space after a year that's been abandoned or after 10 years. Furthermore, the state spent 440 million kuna on rent and use of other people's spaces only in 2010. 440 million kuna is about 70% of the cost of building a new hospital in Pula. So every year we can build that money one hospital in Pula. And of those properties that the state owns, which it miraculously did not leave to rot untapped and closed, it was only 97.5 million kunas in that same year. When the data is considered for the last four years, then the state for renting out the space for which it is questionable whether it should have been given at all because it did not know how to manage its own, it spent billions and 800 million kunas. And only 336 million came from renting their own property. In the last four years, the state has sold properties that it did not need in the total value of only 65 million kuna, and on the other hand, on the real estate market has been established as the largest and highest individual wide-hand buyer because it has bought assets worth 2.5 billion kuna. The total cost of renting other people's premises and buying real estate so we can round up to over 4 billion and 200 million kuna. Therefore, the State Audit report shows that in the real estate management system, there is a complete rasomone. Neither are the criteria, nor are there prices, nor are there tariffs, communication within the system is nothing, and not only that in some ministries there is absolutely no one responsible for managing the use of assets. The audit found that the authorities of the state administration not only on the same street but in the same building pay different rents and that the differences between the lowest and the highest in the same zone, the same street, are the same building by 70%. This also means that when in the same zone it rents real estate then rents one tariff and rents the other one, but that difference is sometimes up to three times. Many of the cases listed in this report testify that when contracts were concluded and contracts for leased business space, state funds were spent without criteria, according to prices which were significantly higher than those which were held on the market, and in particular those assessed by court experts, and that this actually caused direct damage to the state budget. A 10-year contractual lease, for example, when made by a state is more than the total value of real estate, so it's a miracle how short this property should have depreciation. Of course there's something else in practice. The selected shall be able to obtain extra profits from non-accompanied and illegal profits. Also in a number of cases, neither the State's Attorney General's opinion on the legal validity of these transactions has been obtained, nor has the state's interest in buying or renting these premises at all been demonstrated, and the question of who was it in the interest of and how this has been happening for so many years. Furthermore, the findings of this Report have been defeated that, even after 10 years of the adoption of the rules on the eyewitnesses of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, no eyewitness has been established which would contain, according to the State's audit, the full data of the property, movables and rights and obligations related to these properties and movables owned by the Republic of Croatia. What the State Audit says means is that there is no objective of establishing an eyewitness. As this eyewitness reflects the state of affairs, the fact that the total value of all assets held in the eyewitness, billions and 100 million kuna is shown and that in the balances of the ministries, assets are worth 9.3 billion kuna. How can there be a difference of 8 billion and 200 million kuna? Furthermore, it is quite clear that an atmosphere has been created in which a completely legitimate doubt can be suspected of favoring, abuse of duty, opening up a space for corruption and that the time has come for us to no longer be satisfied with the fact that the state's revision of its conclusions is written, neatly delivered to the Croatian Parliament and that nothing happens afterwards. Not only has the time come for such reports to result in criminal charges and indictments, but there is enough material to expect that some of these cases will finally lead to a level of judicial judgment. The question arises whether any of those who led the ministries covered by this audit who were responsible persons, who were responsible for the conclusion and signing of the lease agreement, the sale and purchase will any of them be responsible for what the State Audit finds? And who's going to answer that an eyewitness, a fundamental register of state property, is missing 8 billion kuna worth of assets? The new government urged citizens, among other things, to put all their assets into economic function, indirectly by opening a discussion on a possible property tax. It invites all those who have properties that are not in function to put them into function. To start bringing them revenue. We can trust the government in the sincerity of such an approach because it has to bring the country out of crisis, but we also expect it to break up with current practices, previous governments and to show on its own example that the property it holds as property of the Republic of Croatia is finally put into economic function wherever possible. And it is a great task for all those properties that are fully immobilised and which are crumbling the value of assets that are held under the Ministry of Defence, as well as a whole series of other ministries throughout Croatia to finally benefit from it, not to stare empty and not to fail, but to put it into function, to rent, to give it in concession, to where it is not perspective regarding the need of the state to sell but not to be dead capital. And not to be the most important target of speculators. The Croatian People's Party club, Liberal Democrats, supports this Report and calls on the government to... stand at the end of the current practice of negligence and irresponsibility towards state-owned properties and to carry out a realistic detailed and required list of state-owned assets within a reasonable period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5109	Thank you very much. The position of the HDSSB Club on the subject will be presented by the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5110	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Auditor, ladies and gentlemen. So here my predecessors were really thorough and pointed out most of the problems highlighted in the State Audit report. I would like to hope and hope that, given that they were so critical of this report as regards the period during which HDZ managed state property in the previous four years, that in two years we will have here a State Audit report for the period when this current government will manage this same state property that these numbers will be quite different. So we'll see each other in two years what these numbers will look like then with income and expenses. It may well be mentioned what is mentioned here in this report that the real estate authorities of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to do so with the attention of a good host in accordance with the provisions of Article 35(7). Laws of ownership and other real rights. This report shows to the greatest extent that this was not the case for the period covered by the report. When it comes to an eyewitness Mr. Beus Richembergh mentioned by that eyewitness that exists as a rule backwards since 2001, it has obviously not been brought to life a visible disproportionateness between that property located in the eyewitness and the real value of the property owned by the state. The question is, is there any way in which anyone could be responsible for this witness's condition? I don't remember noticing and I don't think any of us noticed it was the case. All elements of state property management are listed here. What is truly fascinating is what the predecessors mentioned to be so low in income from the state, this state property is a huge amount of nine and a few billion kunas, and that it makes an average of about 100 million kuna a year, while at the same time the average annual expenditure on assets is about a billion kuna. It's an incredible proportion that really indicates that no consideration of a good host has ever been given to this state property. Of course, an ecldent example that the SDP representative also mentioned here, and I also noticed it, and it is really valuable to look back at it once again, this is an example of a building in Planinska 2 which the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, with the previous consent of the Government of Croatia on 3 April 2009, was a contract on financial rental in fact, in fact, on a financial lease of 2 thousand 700 square meters of real estate contracts in total amounting to 11 million and 500 thousand euros, which is 4 thousand 265 euros per metre of payment, which is a truly incredible amount. Except that space is unusable, therefore, except for not being used, except for a public competition, no prior consent of the State's attorney's office has been requested, not regularly paid, and the obligation is 110,000 euros per month. Current obligation over a period of 120 months. It's just an amazing example that I don't really know which way it's gone by now because it really is. However, other than the above examples, there are a number of examples that are not mentioned in this report. So multiple mentions of the Tax Administration building in Slavonski Brod. The amount of monthly rent for the Tax Administration building in Slavonski Brod, which moved about 40,000 euros per month to 30,000 euros per month. When DUSUZ was founded at speed was rented a whole series of buildings by the Republic of Croatia at very high amounts a series of state administration bodies use these spaces. I think this report should have included a much larger number of examples and cases, because these cases have a very large number. So a much larger number than the few involved because it is quite clear that this state-owned property was available and said in the report quite non-transparently, that it was rented very cheaply, and that the properties for the needs of the ministry and the entire state-run sector were rented at incredibly high prices or bought at incredibly high prices. What do you say in the end? I look forward to the sharpness that representatives of the current coalition government have criticised this situation, and I hope in two years that in 2012, no more revenues from the lease of state property will be 100 million kuna and expenditures a billion. Make it the other way around. It will indeed be a success for both Croatia's state budget and Croatia's state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5111	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament, the position will be presented by the respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5112	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief State Auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I would, above all, commend the audit on behalf of the HDZ Club that, with thorough annual audit reports on the business of users and on the spending of state budget money, it also approached this business of a specific audit, which is an audit of the efficiency of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia as part of state property. In this revision relating to the period from 1 September 2010 to 20 October 2011, so for one period before and after the adoption of the new Law on State Property Management, one good part of this report also relates to the period of application of the new law. This report is trying to answer three questions. So is the legislative and institutional framework of business space management effective? Is management of business premises owned by the state effective? And are the data on recorded business premises in business books and in the asset register accurate and enable efficient availability of business premises? It seems to me after reading this report in which the audit said it would not enter into individual examples. In part, however, she entered individual examples for illustrations. They're somewhere good, somewhere they might be and should be far more detailed in order to get the right picture. And in some cases, they're actually incomparable. But here's the general conclusion after reading this report would be that, as far as the legislative framework is concerned, that it is significantly improved by the adoption of the Law on State Property Management, and I must say that this law is also the result of what has been seen that the management of state property does not meet the needs required by the behaviour of a good master, and the state should be in relation to its property. And even moreover, this management is kind of scattered across various state bodies and that one whole law, sublegal acts and strategic and short-term documents for managing state property should therefore be passed. We can therefore conclude from this that the legislative framework is significantly improved by the adoption of the Law on State Property Management. This law of course also provides for the adoption of a State Property Management Strategy and a State Property Management Plan as a short-term document, and what is most important is that the report on the implementation of this plan is presented to the Government and the Croatian Parliament so that we can also monitor the effects of the application of this law. And there is also a Law of Property and other real rights that also speaks of it. There's also the Budget Law. Here's an audit that was nicely called and pointed to article 45. The budget law which states that investment commitments can only be made by investment projects after carrying out the professional evaluation and assessment of the eligibility of the investment project. So it's just a matter of consistent law enforcement. Is management of business premises effective and satisfying the institutional framework? Here, as we saw before the law was passed, that framework was the Government, the Commission for State Property Management, the Office for State Property Management. By amending the law, all these jobs went to the Agency for the Management of State Property as a unique place. We've seen, recently in this House, we've voted on the amendments to the law that set up an additional state body, which is the State Office for State Property Management. I hope so, and I want it to be as the promoter said it would contribute to transparency, and I hope it will not become trees again, a forest from which the tree will not be seen and that it will further complicate governance. Finally, whether the data are recorded in the register of business premises in books and an eyewitness of assets are accurate and make it possible to make them available effectively. I think the answer would have been not from this audit report because it was almost so said that the eyewitness had failed to meet its purpose and would have to make further improvements in this regard. Here is what we see, too, that the Agency for the Management of State Property is first and foremost developing a guideline on the way of assessing the property owned by the Republic of Croatia and that the final establishment of the Register of State Assets under the State Property Register Regulation will provide complete and accurate information on the assets and the way in which the data of budgetary users on the assets they use will be supplied. Unfortunately, for many years, it has been trying to form a single register or an eyewitness or whatever it is you want to see what it is that the state has with which it has, and in order to be able to effectively dispose, it needs to know first of all what it has. Unfortunately, over many years we see that this is not the case, we see that business spaces are about 1600 that are about 1000 of these business spaces in Zagreb. However, I think that there is especially a series of business spaces that exist in nature, and they don't really know whose state they are, but in whose records they're being kept, they don't really know because they're scattered across various state bodies. One more thing I'd say is that some of the cases that are being read here may indeed be as my colleagues have said they sound terrible, and they point to severe criminal behavior. If so, there is a competent authority which will also read this report and will take action if necessary. However, I think when these individual cases are read in more detail that it is not, and especially when the State Review is probably working because it is the only way to do so, which is to read business books and financial reports, then we come up with data that are actually impossible in nature, in practice impossible, and here we have a list of, say, numbers, size of business spaces and number of employees in certain ministries, which is simply impossible. It may be in books, but in life it's impossible, and that's to say here at the Ministry of Agriculture at 1063 squares for 712 employees. That wouldn't be an inch a man. So that's what I'm doing to absurde, and I'm bringing in reading this data because it's impossible. And here somewhere at 37,000 square feet, 303 men. So obviously these are records that are not accurate or not good. So by reading further, you can see what that difference is. But here are some things that don't need to be solved. Likewise, I agree that every purchase should make a detailed assessment plan and the necessary investments and detailed plan of needs and consider in detail whether a particular business space corresponds to the purpose for which it is purchased, but let's say here we have examples that show where market value estimates are compared one year and sales obtained by selling after two years. Of course the market situation changes in two years. Here's a colleague Vuksic pointed out this one example where he said that the state bought something for 362,000 euros more expensive, and this reading does not say what it was about, but as it is the right to buy first, I guess it is about buying some protected cultural goods that the seller sold at a price. So he would have bought it if the state hadn't bought it on the market at that price and would have had to place it on the market not by any other one but by the one he offered for the first time, and said but the assessment of the court witch was not something lower. And now I'm asking a question, and what's a court expert who's an alpha and an omega? So we all know today that you have court experts on the assessment of individual property 1 to 5, depending on what court expert estimates, by which method you evaluate. And that is actually the problem in Croatia, that there is no unique methodology for assessing market value. So I don't know why this artist would be trusted, or by what criteria a reviewer trusts because it is precisely a Croatian problem that we have for the same property drastically different estimates. Of course, it's good to point to all these cases that have happened, for example, I think it's unforgivable that the state invested in building some real estate without ensuring that it recorded its share of property. It's simply unthinkable that you can invest practically half the value in someone else's property. Therefore, this should also be included in the ownership, this is about the City of Zagreb and the State, and it should certainly be entered in the property. I repeat, it is good that the revision has done one such analysis, but in this analysis it should not only be seen from paper that the state is renting some business premises, while it has its own business premises that it may rents at a lower price. It is necessary to see whether these business spaces are identical, whether those of the state have the same purpose that a single state body needs. But I certainly support and I think it's extremely important that the State Audit is being directed, and I have to say that there are already laws in this country and should only be implemented, and therefore the State Review with a series of these instructions that it repeats only really indicates that existing laws should actually be applied. And that it certainly needs to unite the Business Areas Register in order to primarily know when a certain state body needs business space to be seen in one place what is already at its disposal and what can be allocated, and it is particularly unacceptable for individual state bodies to conclude between themselves contracts on the lease of business premises, and it is all actually state property. So here I would, time's up, I would support this report. I think it's a good thing that in one place a whole analysis is being done that ultimately the bodies in charge of managing state property will help in their business. And it is also illegally inadmissible that transactions were concluded for which there was no approval of the State's Attorney's Office, but I am asking the question of what has been the case with all these objections to the review of ineffectiveness or illegality, the State's Attorney's Office has given consent to those contracts and assessed them as valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5113	Thank you, dear colleague Annie Lovrin. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired at 16 o'clock and 51 minutes for the application of representatives to the debate for 10 minutes. And now we're going to move on to a ten-minute hearing. Tonka Ivicevic, a respected representative, appeared first. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5114	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the State Audit Office. The report of the audit and efficiency of the management of business premises states that management of business premises has not been effective and has significant irregularities and failures and has been recommended by the competent authorities to set up organisational units to manage the management of state assets. The audit also considered that it was necessary to improve the way in which the business management of real estate was organised, that the way in which the legitimate interest was determined and the asset value assessment process was not clearly prescribed and that, in most cases, it was not implemented by the competent authorities, that, in certain cases, the ministries had not taken a timely action to collect the claim, etc. Although part of the business space owned by the Republic of Croatia is empty, business premises are rented at prices that are often and double the ones by which the state authorities rent their own squares. So we have a situation that by renting business spaces, the state has made four times less than it has paid for the lease of business space. That's what fellow predecessors have been talking about. Only for renting space the state spent more annually than they cost incentives in shipbuilding or more than it will earn by giving in the concession of the most attractive tourist land owned. Although since April 2011, there has been an Agency for the Management of State Property, which was created by the merger of the Croatian Privatisation Fund and the Central Office for the Management of State Property, the functioning of this agency is far from satisfactory. From personal experience, they can say that the criteria for the allocation of business spaces are extremely uneven, that no procedures are prescribed so that some units of local self-government pay a high rent to use business premises owned by the state for social purposes while some others are completely freed. Unfortunately, this was most often done on a party key, so for example, the town of Komiza from which I come rent a living room for older and powerless persons who live daily 100 people pay the state 33,000 kuna per year. At the same time, such objects were distributed regularly, donated without any compensation and obligations under any standard and procedure. There are 38 military facilities on Vis alone, 37 of which have been completely neglected. In a military facility where there is a military system for the supply of the island with electricity, quality indigenous wine is produced from the variety of the coals of a Vishanin. Millions of square meters of land, forests, robbed objects have been intact for years and healed into weeds. Most of them are located in the most beautiful parts of the coast, the most beautiful coves hidden and suitable for entering small yachts, completely intact nature owned by the state. And while the authorities of other countries in this country were making very much money in Croatia, the former government did not know what would happen to them, although all units of local self-government had brought their own spatial plans and determined the purposes of individual facilities. For years, only commissions whose original task was always the same, were established and the purpose of real estate was determined. And to conclude, on the basis of all of this, it is evident that the state has mismanaged the business premises in its possession. The institutional framework is not sufficiently elaborated so that business spaces are managed differently from case to case. The audit found that the criteria were insufficient not to constitute a legal obligation and that they did not meet the requirements for effective real estate management. Therefore, it is necessary to improve the way in which property management operations owned by the Republic of Croatia should be organised, to determine the purpose of available business premises, to record long-term assets to business books and analytical records, to provide complete and accurate information on the property for effective management, to draw up a list of data providers in the asset register, and to establish an eyewitness of assets, given that the data are incomplete and not introduced into the balance sheet of the state. And ultimately, this government needs to put all real estate into operation in order to be the main driver of development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5115	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The next word came from a respected representative, Romana Jerkovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed chief state auditors, colleagues and colleagues. For me, this report speaks in a very bright way in favour of several undeniable facts, the first is that it was unconsciously managed by public money and state property. Another fact is that the government, or political elite, has acted on its own property as if it were something that is everyone's and nobody's. She acted certainly but at least in the manner of a good master. You can often hear in public that there are no skeletons from the closet but this is really a real opportunity to be without any malice, let alone the joy of saying there are several. It seems to me that by looking at this report I can conclude the following, which is that at this point our biggest problem is certainly not a lack of money. It seems to me only an illusion, the biggest problem is something else, the biggest problem is that too long has not been able to deal with what we have in one rational, meaningful and effective way. And finally, as in many, unfortunately, we have been brought to the level of absurdity. We've become unfortunately a country in which absurd notorous fact is in so many things, too. I must admit that I remained unsurprisingly surprised by the fact that Croatia is worth its assets not only the one mentioned by counterpart Beus, which is 9 billion business spaces, etc., but the total property of the Republic of Croatia that we are worth its 5th in Europe. That fact itself is amazing, most likely true, if it is, then it's also amazing to me at the same time. So, the state that is in considerable financial problems, not to say up, has assets measured in billions of euros, but it only earns about 300 million kunas annually or somewhere around 0.7% of GDP. There are European countries that have twice as much property as Croatia has, and they make twice as much money on it, not to mention Sweden and the Netherlands, which make 2 to 4% of GDP on their state property. So we're on one side, on property looking pretty good and at the same time incredibly poor. So that's one huge absurd I mentioned earlier. At one point, through all its state wealth, Croatia had 5 billion more value than its public debt. It's really justifiable to wonder how we made it through all this to a public debt of 46 billion. So it was very interesting from this report to promote the way the former government found spaces for the ministries and some other state bodies, the ministries paid rent in 2010 for business spaces much bigger than in 2007, as we know, the value of real estate fell significantly. In addition, she did not worry about whether the state had its own space that would meet the requirements of a particular ministry or any other state body. Therefore, it was easy to take someone else's and pay more than the market price. That's what my colleagues were talking about. So, on the other hand, we had the paradox again that the spaces it owned by the state had been put into invaluable or below market value. So, by some miracle in our country, it's not surprising to some. In most cases, we paid unnecessary spaces more than the market price and rented less than the market price. And there's an awful lot of examples. I mention the Tax Administration whose lease is paid 2.1m euros annually. If anyone had thought a little bit about signing a lease agreement, you'd understand that this amount is being passed through, for example. For five years, the state could have reached that place in permanent possession. This is practically how you spend taxpayers' money every year and I could almost say it's crazy. It's 2.1 million euros. That's a hell of a lot of money. We can ask ourselves what all that money could have done. If somehow it went over these absurdities, so it was hard to cross over each other, and that's the State Property Management Agency. So it was really an agency for serious organisational and governing weaknesses. The agency, as we know very well in just a few months, changed three directors, was unable to resolve work contracts with its employees, could not pay the salaries, so it had to be in debt, etc. So as much as this internal state disintegrates, the Agency has also witnessed the fact that it has not yet been published so much needed and so much expected register of state property. Of course, like some others, a civil service employee register once again reveals the long-standing inability to provide transparent control of expenditure as well as income. It's said that the data was collected but not processed because there's no money for it. Well, it would be that for the IRS, we didn't give 2.1m euros at the annual level. So we can try to look at this report with a little bit more optimism. Perhaps through the fact that we must finally become aware that state property is one huge economic and development potential. And it should be put into service if it stands unused and with that asset used should indeed begin to dispose rationally, effectively and meaningfully. It's time to turn a new leaf in that sense. It really is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5117	Thank you too, colleagues. The following has been reported for the debate by a respected representative, Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5118	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Chief Auditor with Associates, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen. I came forward with this debate without some special note prepared to tell the essence of what is actually an undeniable rhetoric, a rhetoric that belongs to auditors written in this report. As the mayor of one city, which is rich in the premises and properties owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is the town of Sibenik. A former military foothold, clearly countless apartments, buildings, business spaces, military that actually bear witness to the true truth, which is the truth of what should be called this State Audit Office report. It is called that we are presented with a report on the management of state property or the efficiency of state property management, and should actually be called a report on non-management and absolute inefficientness in state property management. What we've been doing with state property in the Republic of Croatia for decades is ladies and gentlemen in military terminology known as the expression of diversion. That kind of carelessness, sloppyness, irresponsibility, so I'd feel free to call it even at some point and crime, it's rarely seen in the premises of Western civilizations. This may be seen in some picturesque dictatorships in the Far East or in countries where there is absolutely no order or order. I will refer to several examples in the town of Sibenik of which is the most drastic right next to the monument to Croatian defenders I burn in the Homeland War on some 15 meters of the airline from the space where the monument of the people who died for the defence of that property, these countries of the Republic of Croatia stand spaces that are in such a mess and are left with such a devastation that it can of course not be recorded with the rhetoric of auditors in any report. It is true as it is true that the state simply does not know how to be a master and that in this matter and in this debate no one has touched the real things of the right solution and it does not say in the conclusion of the auditor, which is that effective management of assets that the state can only implement through decentralisation. With the large part of the property being allocated to the management of local self-government units, because the decent example is just from the city of Sibenik showing that it is so. The city of Sibenik has been awarded a place where one of the best libraries in the Republic of Croatia is to the satisfaction of the citizens. Equally one of the largest if not the largest gas supply station in nautical tourism, the Dubrovnik gas station in Sibenik, where there is so much traffic during the summer season that such way and by accessing state property management and its real estates and business premises can result in exceptional income and exceptional income inflow into the state register. In view of the traffic happening at the site, it is quite certain that from such access to the state budget only from one locality and from one real estate, millions of kunas of excise duties, tolls and VAT. It is equally amazing that not only is it not managed by what is the ratio between the assets obtained from rentals and sales on the one hand is very unfavourable compared to what is spent on business premises by the government or the ministry. It is an amazing fact that there is no inventory of state property, that it is not actually updated, that it exists only formally and that in 10 years, regardless of all appeals, it has failed to bring into order a key element for management. There are also examples in the town of Sibenik where on the one hand business premises owned by the state fail because not only are they maintained but they fail due to non-use, while on the other hand, individual ministries are used by private owners. The heights of these premises are extremely high regardless of what is going on, even in certain cases, on derutical premises which are not conditional on public service and on the activities of the ministry in the district units, are paid by the rents that are significantly higher than the rents in the most modern equipped business centres in Dalmatia. In all, one question is raised not only through this audit report but also through other audit reports, which are actually the role and function of the auditors, which have been given their powers and responsibilities through the Act on the functioning of the audit service. And I would be interested to hear whether, after this review, one criminal application or a motion to file a criminal application and one letter indicating the irregularities detected has been forwarded to institutions that have such a task, such kind of responsibility and authority. The audit, of course, also has a prominent function of giving advice, suggestions and corrections, giving guidance on how certain management, management, management, implementation of certain functions in society should be improved. But the fact is, and from that truth, let's not let the gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen run away, that the revision is most often a mere observer of crime that is sometimes not even well-covered, which is seen for miles away. What happens in the management of state property is a national disgrace. I am responsibly saying that because of this lack of a system of failure to manage and ineffectiveness to Croatia, damages are caused to the state by billions of kunas annually, and the figure of 440 million kunas paid by the state to private companies and owners for the use of real estate in cities and municipalities in which the most common state property exists is a thing that should give us a deep picture. Because a few days ago, there was a struggle and there was a question about the state budget in which, unfortunately, the situation had to be the way it is, because of the recent financial situation, it had to be squeezed one million by one million. 440 million kuna is the figure for which investments could be launched, individual issues can be resolved, projects that are important to the Croatian economy and to the recovery of the country. We act as irresponsible masters. Unfortunately, this is so clear but true on the basis of this case, this audit report is not written. And only one who carefully reads audit reports and has certain management experience can conclude what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5119	Thank you, too. Let's go forward. A esteemed representative, Damir Rilje, came forward. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5120	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Assistant Minister of Finance, chief auditors with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am, unlike my colleague, I have prepared myself, but it's from my head. But from experience and everything that actually brought me that experience on the ground it is, of course, a unit of local self-government. We've been talking about decentralisation all along, so it's good to mention so much the only local self-government. After all, the collection of all these units is our beautiful Croatia. Therefore, here is the report on the audit of the efficiency of the management of premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. I am in principle supporting it, of course, by taking all those measures proposed in the assessment of efficiency and management of business premises. Here in this report, everything is said. Of course, the premises must be brought in purpose and reduced to frameworks that prevent alienation of those if it is not of the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, and then it is known in what way and how it is done. The use of state administration space should, of course, be turned around and aware of the efficient, efficient and economically justified use of real estate. The property space is a vast space of resources that must be protected and exploited, i.e. put into operation. Loss of use or non-domestic use is too great and we cannot afford it. And it is shown from the data in the revenue and expenditure tables that clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of management of state-owned areas. I'm not going to repeat them to you or to quote them here specifically because we already know and already my predecessors have instructed them. But they're picking up exactly the core that's actually happening in asset management. I would only briefly refer to those properties that are state-owned, which are located in the area, i.e. the local self-government unit cataster and are not in use for various reasons. For the sake of other legal provisions, they may not be in office, they are not used by the state, they cannot be put into office without units of local self-government because they are in mixed ownership, for example, and so forth. Something about it my predecessor used to say to Tonka. Of course, it imposes the need to clear up the needs of these properties because they may once be entered into the general property or property of NOO and similar to the following cases are listed as state property, and they are not using the state, and they can help the resources of local self-government units. It is necessary that most of these places be given to the use of local self-government units for general social benefit or for their economic growth and development. If such properties are not foreseeable for the State, i.e. for the state development strategy. For example, here I'm going to specify a few types of property that could be recorded in this context. So, the inspective properties of the MORH, here in its unit of local self-government for economic investment, I have these two huge, too big, now I'm talking about the town of Trogir, we heard Sibenik, we heard Komiža, we'll hear all of Croatia. They are, at least one of them on one of the islands in my city, completely devastated and I have information that in 2007, the decision was actually made that it was unspective. This second perspective is as little in use as it is in use, and it is very little in use, of course, unless the fact that a grand stadium was to be built in that area is to be excluded, but I wouldn't be talking about it right now. Real estates in which they were located because of the use of former social political organisations, and they represent the general cultural well-being and are regulated by the '97 Law. A year. So they're not in function, and they need to be in function of the economy. They're the same. Real estates, or buildings that are not used by anyone, are not used, and by some miracle they are prescribed and cannot even be repaired, cannot be removed, represent ruins, and are actually owned by individual ministries. Let's say the police or the general administration, it doesn't matter. That's the kind of guy he's got. I'm telling you everything I have an example of. Lands that are formed as dikes, and for which there is spatial planning documentation, and the subject of public maritime goods, and it is necessary to rush into the book of the same here I hope, I have a case like that, but here it seems that he finally thanked God for the end, and all for doing so as quickly as possible is possible according to the real requirements of course investments that are in front of the units of local self-government, and there are. But that's what we'll see if this is still brought in, and here's what I have information that it is. If not, I'll be free to write to you, to all those who are in a position to monitor and assist in this situation. Real estates that are mixed in ideal parts of local self-government and the Republic of Croatia. There are such, and it should actually be cleared up. Someone should give up on someone's behalf and put into function of course what's more important. I won't decide, of course, who and how, but the fact that it exists and that such a situation generates no use of property. And for the sake of knowledge, there are such data as state property, for example. the signature of a city official thus gives you information sooner or later without any decision by any city authority which would neither be competent nor would be regular without the decision of the competent national authority, for example, give the private person to use. That's how it exists. It's specifically about the former radio station. I guess here's the ex-girlfriend I don't know. So here I am in principle in favour of this report, but I think that local self-government units have major problems in terms of the consumption of rights to those properties that the state itself would not benefit from and which could actually help the economic growth of local self-government units, so in that context, they should be cleared up. We in cities and municipalities I suppose, here I will speak for myself, more or less we know and we have lists of such properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5121	Thank you, too. Let's go forward. The next speaker is the respected representative Lidija Bagaric. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5122	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected chief state auditors with associates, representative of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I would refer to this State Audit Report, I would rather say about the ineffectiveness of management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. Give commendation to the Chief State Auditor for the work done primarily because of the focus on real problems and the specific instructions for resolving them. The report is primarily objective with clear remarks and no hidden calculations. I would like to take this opportunity to draw particular attention to the problems of the lease of business premises, so, in accordance with the Law on Ownership and other real rights, Article 35(7) states that the real estate authorities are obliged to do so with the attention of a good master while local self-government authorities under Article 391 of the same law are obliged to dispose only on the basis of a public tender and with a remuneration established at market price. Well, maybe that's where the next problem lies. And so we have the result accordingly. This report shows how this country behaves as a good master. It is interesting that the premises owned by the Republic of Croatia are normally leased at lower prices than those paid for individual state institutions. By observing the total income ratio from business space and expenditure paid for rent, the figure is that the cost coverage of revenues in 2010 was only 18%. Then we can see that total expenditure increased by almost 50% in the term of office from 2007 to 2010. Even at a time of crisis when rent prices were generally reduced by ministries, in some cases they paid an even higher price. So we have an example that for 10 years the duration of the contract, the Ministry of Science paid 80 percent more than its estimated market value. This is not an exception, of course, but there are many similar examples. I would also take this opportunity to look at another problem, which concerns the business premises that we have in Opatija where the state appears as the owner or co-owner. I suppose it's a similar situation in other cities. The fact is that part of the business space is closed, which should not be allowed in tourist resorts like Opatija because all spaces should be in the function of tourism especially if there is an interest for them, which is the case most often. The reality is, unfortunately, that spaces neither enrich the tourist offer, nor satisfy the needs of the population. For each allocation of such premises, it is necessary to obtain the consent of the Agency for State Property Management, which is a long-term procedure due to insufficient personnel capacity of the Agency. The city of Opatija, on two occasions, managed to rent a business space along with the Republic of Croatia, which unfortunately lasted for months. It would achieve far greater efficiency if the premises owned or co-owned by the Republic of Croatia were entrusted to the management of local self-government units in whose area the premises are located. Because local self-government units know their area better, and they're more interested in keeping the premises in place. In addition, local self-governments have services under which tender procedures are conducted, masters of premises and care for the collection of claims. So everything would be much more efficient rational and economically cost-effective. The State Audit report, which assessed on the basis of the established facts that management of business premises is not effective, should be taken seriously and worked on possible solutions in order to increase so much needed state revenues in that segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5123	Thank you very much. Let's move on, the next word was signed up by respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5124	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, Mr. Auditor with his colleagues. When it came to the table of the agenda and it said that there would be a report on the effectiveness of management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, I thought I would talk about the problems of small entrepreneurs, craftsmen who have real problems which as tenants, i.e. users of state business space have for years. The problem is more than one is that there are still no regulated property legal relations over the vast number of properties owned by the Republic of Croatia, so users of these premises, or the tenants, are not sure about the future of their status in using them. The complexity of the problem is clearly multi-layered, long-term, diverse from unresolved return on assets to the right of some property from various entities and private persons to more unresolved disputes between state ownership and local self-government units. Other problems are that initiatives for the sale of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia have been implemented on several occasions, several laws have been passed, a new law was passed in October 2011 which still lacks a regulation that could solve this. So these initiatives for the sale of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia used by craftsmen, small entrepreneurs in particular of those that have been in possession for a long time or where the tenants are known to be certain craftsmen who have become and some small entrepreneurs who have been using the same premises for 30 years and where they have not solved property legal relations. There were various initiatives that enabled craftsmen and small entrepreneurs to acquire first-time property over which they had been self-organizing, enriching and increasing their value for a long time. Unfortunately, in most cases, these initiatives have failed and have not been realised, especially in a way that would be fair and that could be satisfied by both craftsmen and small entrepreneurs and states, or local self-government. We in HNS clearly believe that the development of craftsmanship and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is a waste of development of the Croatian economy, even I think that this breed of syntagma for a small country would be a little entrepreneurship. The last few years of the economic crisis, regardless of the decomposition and the devastation of the crisis, especially the indifference and depletion of the huge number of crafts and small and medium-sized enterprises is the most vital part of the Croatian economy and the total mass of employees in so-called the real sector is the biggest employer. The HNS considers that the policy of building a business space for rent and sale must be encouraged primarily by entrepreneurship initiatives, investments but that a system of care is necessary for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen who can be shown by proper and fair regulation of the use and sale of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. A little entrepreneurship is certainly a topic that will soon come into debate because of its currentity and importance, so there will be time for this topic to speak more and more extensively. However, as soon as personal data have been found with the rest, data on the audit of the efficiency of the management of the premises for the period from 1 September 2010 to 20 October 2011. I'm fascinated by examples at the very least by the inscrutable and in my opinion the frighteningly arrogant way of managing state property. Many colleagues today talked about it but the infirmity of a man when he read it cannot be kidnapped to talk about it one more time and to repeat all that is stated in this Report. It is some examples, it is about reviewing some space and some cases, pages 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 that describe examples of purchase procedures of some valuable property purchased by the state, also mentioned today by certain colleagues, these contributions so much in the eyes that it is simply impossible for them not to be peed, especially to colleagues from the audits who have probably read several times, but I have to read it because they are amazing stories. In October 2009, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a solution on the granting of funds on the burden of the 2009 budget of the state budget of 2.5m euros. For buying half the property in Zagreb. There are now certain data that indicate that in November 2009, a total payment of 18 million 81 thousand 42 kuna and 50 limes was made. And now the revision comes to the conclusion, that the Republic of Croatia bought these properties, 50% bought Zagreb, that it paid more than 362 thousand 759 euros. In addition, it was found that the acquisition of that property did not demonstrate the legitimate interest of the State or the purpose of the facility since it was a non-usable facility. That's one example, which when you see it, you wonder what's going on. It's nowhere to say what real estate they're in, where the addresses don't say it anywhere, and it's not the subject of this review, but it's amazing that these skerri are all the data that's in the audit that's going on, where the cash is, what's going on here. The second real estate refers to a business space purchased through a financial lease which has been re-provided by colleagues in order to comply with the provision of Article 5(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The public procurement law stipulates that the Public Procurement Act does not apply among other things to acquisition, lease or rental contracts of existing buildings, other immovable property, land... which concerns them regardless of how they finance. So there could have been a lot of things, and apparently, things are based on legal regulations. I'm still on that same property. It was also found that that ministry paid the rent for May and June 2009, and the costs of processing the claim totalling EUR 844 000 480, and said, in addition to the above, that the acquisition of the property had not shown the interest of the state. During the review, I do a little skipping because there is a lot of data in the very description of this job that has been done, but only these things I can read that can explain what it really is, or see certain terrible anomalies, not certain but terrible anomalies that occurred in these transactions. During the audit, a comparison of the price at which the property was leased according to the assessment of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration was made. According to the lease agreement, it was found to be 4000 265 euros and 38 cents per square metre. ...for her real estate is blah, blah, blah, blah, 11 million 516 thousand 510.38 euros I believe most citizens don't even know what the amount of money is. You can't imagine just knowing it's a lot, I don't know, and I have to admit it. E and now the State Audit Office is of the opinion that the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy is in charge of 11 million 516 thousand 510 euros and 38 Oh, my God, you could buy a habitable business space in... at a price less than 4000 265 euros. [[Intruder: Time.]] I've got some other things I wanted to read, unfortunately time's up. Just allow one sentence is not likely what it says in this report and I hope that we Kukuriku coalition will never but absolutely never manage the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5125	Thank you very much. We have a replica on your presentation. Dear Representative Petar Cobankovic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5126	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Here, let me tell you about this subject. There were already a couple of MPs who discussed it, and of course I couldn't use the Institute of False Recital because what you were saying about the Ministry of Regional Development is what it says in the review report. But unfortunately, I have to say here that there are some things in this report mixed up. First of all, I would like to stress that in 2009, the Ministry of Regional Development used almost exclusively rented space, that significant funds went to rent a business space, that this purchase was to create an assumption that the ministry was located in one location and that practical space was being added to the purpose and that others were being built to create a complete space for the needs of the ministry. That's what a couple of MPs were talking about. And since there were a lot of people in that ministry and construction professions, their calculations were that it would be cheaper to buy this space which also wasn't about 2,000, 700 square meters of business space than about 2,000, 700 meters of building land plus 3,000, 600 square meters of business space, so that the entire ministry could be stationed in that space. When we talk about business space prices, then I also have to tell you that most of the price per metre of the square business space in this section went from 5 thousand 212 per metre square to 2 thousand 177 per metre square metre. That this includes the cost of building land that more than 3.5 million kunas are included only releases on communal and water contributions among other things. I don't blame you, just as it's written you're quite right and you've reacted correctly. Thank you very much. On the other hand, I'm also prepared to handle all the conjunctivities related to this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5127	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5128	A respected colleague is exactly what you said. I've read this review because I believe that audit, I can't believe it, I trust that audit that it's well done and what you're talking about. It says the last sentence I've said I've had so much I wanted, but there's going to be an opportunity. The State Office for Auditing Opinions... in debt of 11 million 516 thousand 510, 38 euros could buy inhabitable business space in Zagreb at a cost of less than 4 000 265.38 euros per meter, which is the opinion of the audit I believe in, and this is a huge amount. And reading the entire report says there's got to be something wrong with that. That whole report just gives us an indication that something's wrong. Especially if I may, I can see that I can talk about an eyewitness that doesn't exist. We in Croatia do not have an eyewitness of state property which is something amazing that in the 20 years of this country we have not been able to do it together. And that's what he's saying, and that's also indicative of how it's managed the property of the citizens of Zagreb. The state doesn't have a single kuna of its own, and the state isn't something imaginary. Business spaces are not state-owned, it is all owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have made it available to us to politicians and politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5129	Thank you, too. Let's go forward. The next 10 minutes, a respected representative of Peja Grbin reported. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5130	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed Mr. Chief State Auditor. I will immediately have to refer at the beginning of my presentation to what you have just presented to a respected colleague, Cobankovic, and it concerns exactly this lease you mentioned. And I'm going to have to read a sentence from the findings that is here today in front of us and it says, "So the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy in 2009 had all the commercial premises in the lease while the Ministry of Defence gave state-owned premises to rent on conditions that were not marketable, and part of the space was empty. It is not a problem whether business premises are purchased, whether business premises are rented or given, the problem is how they are bought, how they are rented, how they are given. And that's exactly the problem with this report that's here today in front of us. I think it's rare when in this House it's been recorded that so much praise is brought to the person who brought such bad news. They say that usually the messengers who bring bad news are killing. We don't, of course. We must commend you, for you have introduced us to what is wrong. Everyone in this country was saying, "It's no good, it's no good." Today, in front of us and especially in this Report, and in this one we will discuss later on regarding public procurement in Croatia, the post office that is even worse. In these two reports, black and white, we see what is wrong with the Republic of Croatia and see what we need to change and see how we cannot do it. And that is why we do not kill the messenger today, but praise him for what he has done and for what he has shown us. I'm a little bit, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. However, what is in this Report except that very clearly and very precisely as this former state of our country shows, what is in this Report is particularly good conclusions, or rather instructions on how to behave. This is a report in a very clear, very nice, very precise way of saying what we have to do to make these mistakes and these kind of failures don't repeat themselves. And I thank you for that, too. And here's the show I'm going to end up with because my colleagues said a lot before me, so there's no point in repeating myself, with an initiative that's directly related to how to dispose of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the Law on the hire and sale of a business space which provides for state-owned business premises to be sold to current tenants if they meet the requirements laid down by law, provides that certain state agencies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt regulations and acts on the basis of which these commercial premises will be sold. Since it's often business spaces that are the same, I'd say families, craftsmen, etc. using 50, 60, 70 and over years I think that by acting under the Law on the Hire and Buying Business Space, we would do these people a big favor and help them solve their situation in one final and stable way. And also given the situation in which our budget is located, it would allow a little better charge. Since these acts have not been prepared in this place so far, I would like to refer the initiative to both the Government and the State Property Management Agency, that the acts concerning the sale in accordance with the Law on the rental and purchase of business premises are instructed in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5131	Thank you too, colleague. The following has been registered for discussion by the respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The building of the Office of State Audit is located here near Tkalčiću Street, and there is also a monument to Marija Jurić Zagorki. Why do I say that? Well, because even in the best novels, Maria Jurić Zagorke could not have been described in the novels of Sherlock Holmes, Conan Doyle, my colleague Dr. Scott, who described in the novels truly fantastic manipulations and stunts, especially manipulations that have been done here and that have caused damage to the Republic of Croatia and the state of Croatia. I would say it may be difficult to sum it up, but almost as much as the Serbian-Cresian aggression and destruction of the Republic of Croatia. It's congested, it's fallen apart, it's suspected that it's actually a deal, it's a deal to say to the English that I was clearly not present and I can't testify. But when we ask ourselves why the rent prices are so high when the state rents and its ministries, agencies and others, which is why again on the other side of the country is trying to issue its space at minimum prices. And what that man should think about is a simple little citizen, except that it's a deal to make money in private pockets. I'm not going to accuse anyone here by name, but I know well when I was in college, and my wife was studying veterinary, that in Mountain 2 there was a vet, that Mr. Majdak was a director and co-owner, if that's the case. Afterwards, I see that Mr. Fiolić has accepted it. How do you say that? And all of a sudden, Hypo banka leasing, so now the state of Croatia buys or buys a building in Planinska for 11 and a half million euros so that someone doesn't hold me now for those who are thousands of euros, 10 thousand more or less, that's how you get paid for the behavior of those who are so really inhabiting the property of Croatian citizens who have been built for years, decades or even centuries. It's completely irresponsible as if they hate Croatia, as if they don't care how that money arrives in the register. According to the Central Shucker, it was, as it were called, a treasurer, a bag, a cash register. Whatever you want, taxes and cuts and customs fees, more than 65, 70% of this country's income. Well, that pays our citizen in VAT, in fuel, in the price of coffee, in the consumption of everything. And here when you go to rent here I read that the beautiful Fortuna casino of Croatia lottery which also brings profits is also located in the building in Vlaška is also rented. To whom? How much of a lease does anyone know to answer me? This unfortunate tax administration that I've been talking about here for two years in Slavonski Brod, which is located in a building built by a private investor and for which the state of space is paid 3.5 million kuna per year for 10 years amounts to 35 million kuna. And only 30% of children in Slavonski Brod attend kindergarten. How many kindergartens we could build in Slavonski Brod or anywhere else from that money. Could a new tax administration building be built in Slavonski Brod, and there is a Greenfield, we have space, we have a field in the city center just across the street from this current Tax Administration where the building of the Police Administration was supposed to be built, so it gave up because they agreed, the former government agreed to say so brutally without fear, so ugly that a large Tax Administration in Slavonski Brod could be made without any problems for half of that money. But no, it's a ten-year lease to put in somebody's pocket 35 million kunas for 10 years. It's a contract signed for 10 years. Payable clear investment, my God. Well, that's why it was built, I guess. It is said here in the conclusion that every lease contract must go, and so far has gone, to the DORH for verification. So I wonder if DORH has appointed many of these contracts, too? State's Attorney's Office? If it is, how is it and why is it? How could she not suspect anything? And if it's not signed by the DORH, then it's illegal, then it's illegal, then it's a crime. Well, it's actually crime and what's signed and approved by the DORH, and if it wasn't responded to so enormous and so ridiculously high, I'd say I don't really know the prices a man would cry about, and not laugh, but he has to laugh because it's an obvious setup. Who's the good guy, who's who, who's who, who's who? I'm not even gonna talk about the names here today, but I almost could, so I could draw them, right? Of these millions that are mentioned here, they're like out of the sleeves of someone else's hands, so your brain spins, it spins in your head. I don't know anymore, today they've mentioned so many of these cases that I don't know how long it's gone for the lease say for the last four years a billion and 800 million kuna that the state gave it, and it's coming from the 336 lease. Here's the only number I've got that's as fascinating as that, amazingly left in my mind. Well then mention is made of the Port Captain Rab, the Ministry of Transport, the sea and the link that gave the company's private company space in Zagreb free of charge, and there in Rab is paying space for the port captainium on Rab the same company. So I don't speak any other examples I've said and recorded in Split 511 square meters of the Ministry of Agriculture 70 thousand kunas a month. That means a yearly amount, over 800,000 kuna a year for rent. It's just that, it's amazing how simple how bad it got. I would almost say maliciously, as if someone wanted to destroy and destroy what the citizens of this country are doing and many of those women who work tomorrow is on March 8th to congratulate women, and I congratulate them, who work in shops from morning to morning and on Fridays and on Wednesdays and on Sundays for 2,500 thousand kuna in private. Since these VAT dollars and the rest of the income tax and the rest of them were simply inaccessible, without any thought whatsoever, without simply being completely insensitive, without having any desire to manage rationally so that this country would finally go better after 20 years. That's why I'm angry and I'm saying it because I just can't stand listening to one of today's parliamentary MPs, and by setting an example for example, it's that man can't stay calm, but simply there must be anger at what's been happening in him. And if it wasn't for warning, it was. It's not true it wasn't warned. I said I'd been warning for two years about renting the IRS on a Slavon ship. Two years! Well, I'm allowed here even a bit of a verbal threat, but I'm not afraid of these jackal threats, it doesn't bother me. That's why I'm glad to be here today and at this debate both at first and second and all the points of this state audit that he said I wouldn't say at last, but finally it's possible to say what it was all about, and so is we, but also at the authorities or institutions that are responsible for this kind of audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5133	Finish your coworker, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5134	I will. Here's another sentence. So, the institutions of the repression to do something about it once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5135	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first is Honored Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5136	So here's my colleague Grubisic, you looked back on one example that was cited here, you weren't the only one who looked back on this one example that seems rather speculative and vague in the State Audit Report. Well, here we had the opportunity to hear from the former Regional Development Minister, and later the Minister of Agriculture explained that the State Audit Report said it was a 2700 square-square-square business space, and Mr. Cobankovic said it was a plot of 2700 square-square-square-square and a business space of 3600 square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s. So, auditors, is this about an error in the State Audit Report on this case? And that case as well as the others you cited. In fact, we're all complicated about the problem only maybe we haven't partly pointed a finger at those institutions that were responsible for sanctioning these problems, and in this case it's not the State's Audition, it's the State's Attorney's Office and the police who didn't really apostrophe any of us, and neither is this Mr. Chief Attorney who enjoys most of our support, at least as we publicly acknowledge ourselves. And in this case that you listed about that sale in that case there was no agreement of the State's Attorney's Office, but there were no sanctions after the purchase of at least not clearly known. Well, here I am in favour of your discussion, and I think it was a good thing that this case, like other subjects, as many others, ended up in that institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5137	Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica, dear colleague Boro Grubisic. Dear representative, turn on the microphone so we can film you, it needs to be recorded.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5138	I touched it, but it's obviously a little technique or I'm a little gentle, although my last name is Grubisic. I am Mr. Djurovic just apostrophe of what DORH signed and what he didn't sign and what was done was both. So, I have just absorbed the role of the DORH here and what I didn't mention is there is a tobacco factory Zagreb 74 million kuna, so many rooms of the state's protection and rescue administration that have been rented, we have again in Slavonski boat this case and everywhere in all the county, so it's terrible, that if we counted that money it's an incredible amount of money, we could finance all the social care out of it one year at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5139	Thank you, counsel. At your presentation, we have another reported replica, the respected representative Branko Vukic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5140	You said to your colleague Grubisic that you had warned about organised crime but no one had responded, I had wondered the same before in the debate why no one to these hundreds of millions of kunas stolen from Croatia to the state of tax bonds, but what the auditor's report says is just the tip of the ice santa, which is what you can see, these are figures that are legally written and copied in one of these reports. What about what you can't see, with that thieving and no one reacts, and today no one has worked very hard, no one has rang the bell, no alarms, you've certainly noticed that in Hollywood he won the silent film on Oscar, no more inspiration, no more ideas for new criminals, they should come to Croatia in reports and auditors and many other reports in political life to find inspiration for good movies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5141	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, MP Boro Grubisic, please welcome the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you know that this report in 2010 included only part of it I would not like to be the spokesman of the main but clearly that this part is really the tip of the ice santa, and the tip of the ice santa is 9 tenths of the total ice santa is so below the water of the 9 tenths. No, you see this debate is going down today afternoon. I think this debate was supposed to be this morning for citizens and the public to hear all this and to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5143	Thank you very much. We have hereby exhausted the list of participants for the debate on the report on the audit carried out on the efficiency of the management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5144	Report on the audit carried out of the efficiency of management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the audit of the efficiency of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes because 102 voted in favour of, 1 against, 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5145	We move to the next item of the agenda that is - Report on the review of the efficiency of public procurement in the company HP Croatia post office d.d. The State Audit Office submitted a report on the basis of Article 9. The law on the audit office. The motion for an act has been accepted into the boxes, the government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session, would the proposing's representative like to give an opening statement? He wants, please, the state auditor Ivan Klesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5146	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, I don't know which time, but that's the way it is. Here, let me come to an end so the latest report on the effectiveness of public procurement at the public company Post d.d. I spoke about efficiency audits in my opening speech, at the previous point, when reviewing the efficiency of management of business premises, and now allow me to particularly highlight the facts related to the second performance review we published during the previous reporting period, so this is an audit of the efficiency of public procurement in the Croatian Post Office d.d. The decision to carry out the audit was made on the basis of published articles in the media, the amount of revenue and expenditure achieved, the value of the assets of a relatively high number of sales, risk assessments and previously identified irregularities in the field of public procurement, and the public interest in establishing economic and efficient public procurement in a society that is fully 100 % owned by the Republic of Croatia. The subject matter of the audit was company activities related to the implementation of public procurement procedures, and the objectives of the audit were to determine whether there were clear procedures in the procurement process from the stage of planning the implementation of procurement procedures, the selection of offers, the conclusion of procurement contracts, the delivery of contracted goods, works and services until the use of the funds obtained. Is the supply of goods, works and services carried out in accordance with the regulations. Whether an effective internal control system is in place to remove irregularities in the procurement process. Or implementation of purchase achieved improvement of quality and increase of Croatian postal services. Although I must point out, the company has largely acted in accordance with the internal rules of law and procedures, and introduced centralised public procurement and has extremely well-trained employees in the public procurement sector. The procurement does not fully achieve objectives that ensure quality improvement and an increase in the amount of services. For these reasons, the office has made the following recommendations, procurement should be planned more realistically on the basis of the real needs of market research and analysis carried out and according to the opportunities of society. The projections of financial plans and long-term investment plans should then be adopted in accordance with the objectives and activities set out in the strategic development plan. The business plan and the procurement plan should be adopted within the appropriate time limit and aligned with the financial plan and the investment plan. Based on experience from earlier years, risks should be identified in the conduct of procurement procedures in relation to procurement cases, the deadlines prescribed by the instructions on the initiation of the procurement procedure and the timing of procurement for the purpose of timely contracting and realisation of procurement at the time when the need for the procurement of works and services is expressed. The tendering documentation should be drawn up in a way that will allow for the participation of as many bidders as possible in order to achieve the most favourable price and, of course, the lowest costs. It is necessary to monitor the performance of contract procurement by type and unit of measure and quantity and to require and ensure delivery by tenderers in accordance with the agreed deadlines. The creation of certain services should be entrusted to the employees of the company in the framework of regular working hours, the laundry of the job description, the experience and professional training, instead of agreeing with external associates and suppliers, and the establishment of a more efficient system of functioning of internal procurement controls. Mr. President, I would like to thank you once again for your attention. If there's gonna be any questions one more time I'm saying we're gonna try to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5147	Thank you. Does the board want to? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party the representative Mr Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5148	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of state auditors fellow MPs. I have to admit that the way of publication itself or to be more precise is rather unusual and at least to me is quite impenetrable. In addition, there are a lot of contradictory allegations here, so it is said in one place that 548 employees have received incentive severances and since 1 January 2010 are not employees of the company. Secondly, this same report states that in 2009 stimulant severance payments were paid for 830 employees amounting to slightly more than 165 million kuna, and this data shows that 282 employees received a severance fee of almost 200 thousand kuna and others worked in the Croatian Post Office. It is then noted that the financial expenditures were incurred in the amount of 190 and some million kuna and by 122 million kuna compared to 2008. In particular, they relate to the loss shown in the associated company in the amount of 165 and slightly small million kuna. Not a word of the associated society, as regards the above loss and yet more than 160 million kuna. The report, however, refers to an audit on the effectiveness of public procurement, but since such facts are already such as these, it would be correct to state and what is the case. To praise the fact that, since March 2010, an information link between storage operations has been established which, with the reorganisation carried out, should ensure the prevention of unnecessary supply creation. Reading this report, I noticed another detail that is not subject to the revision but is listed and may have consequences for the quality of public procurement efficiency in the Croatian mail society. Now you mentioned it a little while ago, but in a very different context. In the public procurement sector, 30 workers have been systematised and 20 employees are employed. You just commended them that people are very professional, successful but undeniable is the fact that they are missing one third or 33%. That means that either too many people are being systematicized in this sector or these 20 people are being killed by work. And in that case, there are far greater possibilities of error. And that the errors have also been found by the State Audit in the section of the evaluation of the effectiveness of the procurement of this report. In some cases, the State audit proposes to require in others certain executions to society. However, if it is the alignment of a directive that is definitely an internal act, with the Public Procurement Act, then we cannot talk about the proposal but I believe that this should be an imposition. I am personally surprised by the fact that the company has a stock of information and other equipment worth nearly $12.5 million. I understand that you can have some equipment in stock that in case of a malfunction you have, say, a replacement computer that you can immediately put into service but that over 12 million kunas you have in stock that's not quite clear to me. I remind you, it's about information equipment that's already out-of-date today. The State Office proposes to adopt a stock management strategy that would identify optimal supplies in one place. I think it would be more appropriate for the State Audit to order society to do something like that, but I'm clearly noticing it. Since I worked alone in a company that has almost identical problems with protective clothing as well as with Croatian mail, it is incomprehensible for me to conclude that there is no regulation on protective clothing and clothing, so the State Review proposes to the company to produce internal acts that require the establishment of who has the right to wear protective clothing and shoes on commercial vehicles and mopeds which are handling the loss of unauthorised use of the prescribed penalty, etc. I find this inadmissible. First of all, I find it incomprehensible that the State Audit is just proposing here again. So doesn't this mean that so far in the Croatian Post Office, protective clothing has been shared by an ominous method, or who likes people in the procurement sector gets protective clothing, and who doesn't have any luck. I just can't believe it, but that's how it comes from what it says. I don't have to point out that probably where and where the more interesting situation with the use of the rolling stock, which according to this definition of the State Audit in the report was available to anyone but probably just certain. A number of irregularities are listed in the booking and recording of certain purchases or maintenance costs and I would dare say illegality. For example. in the case of the purchase and installation of 180 digital recorders, the Accounting Sector has one account of 8 thousand 784 kuna with VAT, and according to the Office for Corporate Security, the contract has not been completed in full or in value of a million and 581 thousand kuna. The state audit with this finding has done its job. So isn't it the task of the State Audition to determine whether the famous digital cameramen were really obtained, so it's about not knowing the surface or the loss of some accounts, or the delivery or whatever is going on, or the amount of over a million and 570,000 kuna was paid for something that didn't exist or ever existed. I wonder why the State Audit find is in such cases? We only have here in this case two findings that there is one account, and almost insignificant amount of 8 thousand and 784 kuna and the fact that a million and 581 thousand kuna were spent. Then on the contract to obtain clothing official and protective. The company missed the contract to incorporate the insurance elements which would be in the event of non-delivery or ineligible delivery. So what was expected was that there was no delivery within the time limit. The state audit suggests that contract penalties be incorporated into the contracts. Also in the company of Croatian Post Office you proposed more realistic planning for the purchase of certain services, specifically the service of security houses. This unreal planning is summed up according to different items and forms of employment of security houses. The Croatian Post Office only cost 4 million 580 thousand above the planned funding plan. It is also interesting that the State Audit, unless I have made some kind of oversight for all of my findings, has been given to society in one way or another except for the part where external associates are engaged, and for that a million and 615 thousand kuna have been paid for. And for the very end, I'm asking one question. Nowhere did you mention the question of public advertising, or the lease of media space for which if you believe at least the media, Croatia spends a pretty large amount of money. You have not mentioned any mention of the involvement of numerous renowned law offices, which is reportedly also being spent in considerable amounts, although Croatia has normal mail and its lawyers. Nowhere did you mention how much Croatian mail paid the costs of the appeal to the factory... for the reason that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement has ordered them because of irregularities in the course of tendering for the purchase of protective clothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Does this mean that these cases were not covered by this revision or media inscriptions are not simply accurate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5149	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats' Club, MP Mr. Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5150	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party has a brief look at this audit report. I mean, my colleague used to do some very exhaustive things, so he cut my program short. That's what I'm grateful for anyway. This Report shall be drawn up in accordance with the standards applicable to the drawing up of audit reports. Of course, once again with a benign rhetoric that only when you read the second or third time then some things fall into your eyes. But of course, when at the level of the unit of local self-government you are also dealing with Croatian post office then it gives you a constant advantage in analysing such documents. In this audit report, shortcomings were recorded in the management of public procurement, but among other things some of the basic indicators of the business of Croatian Post Offices, which show that Croatian mail has been a loss that is not insignificant in recent years. However, when you enter the essence of what you can read from these verses, then we can be happy that this loss is so small. It would be completely natural if it were even bigger. There is a number of shortcomings in the public procurement process in the Croatian Post Office, which is actually a key element in the business of a single company, and it is amazing that a public enterprise, a state-owned company, can ignore the recommendations arising from the work of the auditors, ignore the laws of the Republic of Croatia, ignore positive practices, and, among other things, the practice of responsible management of what is public and what is the property of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Among other things, this report also presents data that are not detailed enough, and mentions the notion of issued corporate bonds worth 21 million euros, which is approximately at the current rate of about 160 million kuna, which is not a small figure. Nowhere has it been explained why these bonds were made, on the basis of which the procedures, why these funds were spent. The text also shows that public procurement plans are being adopted prior to the financial plan. If we know some basic things, then the question is how is it possible that you plan to obtain this plan is also withdrawing some financial resources without a key document being adopted yet, some financial plan. Someone who is a layman may not say that much, but to those who are principally referred, so there is not some special expert on these things, but that speaks of enough sloppyness, so maybe it opens up some other questions. Also, by the first half of 2010 Croatian mail had no information-bound inventory of what they have at the warehouses. Imagine a paradox. The company that deals with communications and sells this as a basic service on the market in 2010 has no information-bound warehouses and does not know what place Croatia is in. Clearly what happens then, exactly what a colleague from the Labour Party said, equipment is being obtained, is standing in warehouses and is very likely to be antiquated. Because when it comes to information equipment, we're all deeply aware of it, it has two characteristics today. One is that it is very expensive equipment and very valuable equipment, and the other is that old much faster than people and that what lies for 3, 4 or 5 years at the warehouse for 6 years does not have a very important useful value, by applying this equipment we will not improve business but we will not reverse business and make Croatian mail less competitive. Of course, there are other things, let's say that there has been an increase in investment in promotion and that is significant, and that at the same time it is not accompanied by the increase in traffic, by the increase in business income, but rather by the opposite of mail in many of its business elements, losing step and recording the decline in income based on certain types of services. And we could say a lot about what is stated in this and already more extensively material by doing Croatian post office that it is not in the context of the audit report listed on the back page is actually to read from the recommendations that the auditors made to improve the business of Croatian post office. However, the real truth about the business of the Croatian Post Office is not in this audit report. This audit report is based on available documentation, interviews with employees, business analysis in the context of compliance with the law, implementation of internal acts etc., etc. However, the real truth is, I will return to my Sibenik again, in how they do Croatian mail. A colleague again from the Labour Party referred to some headlines of famous world hits, some famous world directors, and I will remember a series of once popular in these places called the Hospital at the end of the city. In my town there is a post office at the end of town which is probably the only one more expensive than that building that was the subject of a previous wheel that was repeated as evergreen in the debates of MPs. We in Sibenik have mail that I remember as mail since childhood, all citizens know as mail, all guests of the city of Sibenik know it as mail but it is no longer. Although it is in one of the top positions in the town of Sibenik, it is owned by Croatian Post Offices. It was abandoned because the Croatian Post Office decided to rent a completely unconditional facility at the end of the city in vineyards opposite the main and central post office of the Croatian Post Office in the town of Sibenik, ladies and gentlemen, are olives and vines and city cemetery. There is no possibility of getting to that facility without using motor vehicles. And the fuel's picked up and not everyone's driving a car. And it's not just that. The monthly lease of this facility goes up to 100,000 kuna per month. The annual rental of the facility is worth a million kunas. The ten-year lease of the facility is more than the real value of the facility. To make things worse by building a logistics centre once upon a time some previous administrations bought the land to build an object that would supplement the existing facilities in the Croatian Post Office and make the system functional. Of course it did not, of course, exist today, of course, that no loan has been raised that the monthly war for the construction of such an object on its land would be much less than the rent war paid to the owner of the property that was rented. We're not going to go into details and talk about what's the link, you know what's the link. It is very well known what is the link in this case and in the case of renting private space for individual ministries, it is known why the rentals of such facilities are enormously high. We're not little children for God's sake! It is known why this country is two steps behind Greece. The answer is known by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and based on this response, and these lessons came to the vote. The second thing that is important in this report, and that is the eye, my colleague has listed some contradictory data on the number of people sent along with correct severance, as a supporter of labour rights, and it is absolutely a positive mechanism if people go to ship them off if it is already such a difficult situation with correct severance. However, 800 severances have been distributed, and in some other data 500 and some severances, but the reduction in the number of employees in the Croatian Post Offices is only 260, 270 that I do not now take out the exact figures, but I may be missing by 10. A bit of a weird game of numbers. To someone who just reads this report and who doesn't live in the field and doesn't deal with politics because we all know and know where that difference is. That difference was created where some criticisms are now being made about similarities and similar things. In one word, the Croatian People's Party will support this report because it contains elements and recommendations that need to be implemented in order to improve the business of the Croatian Post Office, but as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, the Mayor of Sibenik and as a citizen of this country who truly wants this country to find the right way someday, as soon as possible, to condemn this kind of approach to business, this kind of management of public companies, this kind of management of the resources of the citizens of the country, which is its opportunity to make its way towards the well-being of its citizens, paid a very expensive price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5151	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP club is representative Mr Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5152	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected chief state auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here at this moment in the evening came the turn and the Croatian Post Office, today it is obviously reserved for audit reports of different, general, political parties, business premises, we have now reached a company. We have his report, it would be a much better picture if we had audit reports for other companies, unfortunately, technically or organisationally impossible to make in one year, and then we would have a complete picture. I think and believe that the situation in other companies or many of them is no different than just worse. And the audit report itself says that it went into the revision of the Croatian Post Office based on certain knowledge and media, etc., we had in the last year a series of three days of different media knowledge about a number of other state-owned public companies, probably there are things that are worse. I am saying this not to justify Croatian mail but to say that the problem is much bigger than we can see from the audit report of the Croatian Post Office. It would just be so much so that maybe we would be scared if we got an audit report from all state-owned companies. Only the audit report as a report is quality-made and comprehensive and should be absolutely supported. So we're satisfied with what it says, we're satisfied with the report, but we're not happy with the state the review found and the state it writes about. Of course, it's not the audit, it's not the one who finds the problem, it's who makes it. The report is of quality and it is not only concerned with seeing whether everything is in accordance with regulations and procedures but also went a step further to see how effective this public procurement is and how much improvement has taken place after such large public procurement, so whether the service is more quality and whether the service is greater. There is no decoded response, quantified, but from what we see, we can certainly see this much and this kind of public procurement if we look through these parameters, it certainly can't be justified. In 2010, public procurement was higher by about 60 million compared to 2009, therefore. 205 million, 2010. 267 if I got the good numbers, so 62 million more somewhere around 25% higher. There's more to it. IS in that part and so much improved service quality or increased assorted business about it would be allowed to talk believe that it is not. Of course, it probably partly affected this data, I think that my colleague Baranovic was just talking about the issue of bonds, we see there in the report that long-term liabilities have been greatly increased from 20 million to 164 million kuna. This is a major increase in long-term liabilities, which is rather than borrowing for daily purposes, the needs of this period considered. What the revision found of course that we all saw should not be entered, but I will warn just a few things, it is said that what is suggested by the revision is therefore necessary more realisticly to plan the purchase on the basis of the real needs of market research, analysis, etc., surely it should and certainly should be in Croatia mail, but I would say, as I said at the beginning, as in other societies, that the following is happening, to obtain what is really necessary for society, and that often the procurement is not the result of the need of society, but I would say the need of suppliers. What suppliers have, so if they still manage to agree with someone in a company, then they need to get it to a company or not. This is a particularly common case and this is not good, so public procurement is getting high, which is why millions more and more public procurement are increasing every year, and the results are as they are, not better if the purchase is increased. Of course, often there is also a report on this procurement plan, i.e. not following real financial sources of financing, and thus I associate this obvious borrowing because it was obviously going into much larger procurement from long-term borrowing rather than the source that the company had at its disposal. It is said, of course, that it is necessary to have far more bidders, the interesting thing is that when an offerer or one or two appears, there are few of these services simply for which there are no more interested subjects, but usually so specific is the tender documentation that for some quite irrelevant reasons you exclude those that are not interesting to you, so it comes down legally, so it comes down to one or two suppliers, it's legally all right but it really isn't right and it's really spending money enormously than it is necessary and not the way it's necessary. Of course, the question arises and here how much it is necessary to go to public procurement for all services and works, how much work I can do with my own Croatian postal forces has more than 11,000 employees. I'm not saying that some of these things should be done by those mail providers in our villages and streets, they can't even do that to those who work on counters. But those who work in management, who work in management who work in those segments that need to work, would have to do more, a good part of doing it on their own and not asking them to outsort it to do it to others, so that it's paid when they're already paid for it and they should do it. So I say what is characteristic of Croatian mail, unfortunately it is probably characteristic of many others, their audits here do not have and if the results were what they are. Why is that? Because for years, we've had one irresponsible behavior of the administration that we position more and more responsible. So management and administrations are the culprits for this situation in the post office and elsewhere, they acted that way because they were obviously allowed to act that way because they weren't more effective, etc., to listen well and to be similar and then who asks you how you do, you're not set up to do well and responsibly than to listen and to do what you're told or to be like. Then when someone else comes in and says, well, you know, it's not good, so it can't be done anymore, they say it's rematchism. It is not rematchism but should be found if there are problems and if they are clearly shown you should simply say that problems exist and should be found people who will do different things. After a lot of these now debates and what's about to happen. The worst could happen if that thing eats the donkey wolf, that's right. The people in the review worked for hours, weeks, months on it very valuablely to analyze it all, we discuss here, warn about problems, and if this ends if this whole deal ends with tonight's debate we've done the job. If things don't change inside the Croatian Post Office if it doesn't work differently and if it doesn't change if those who are guilty don't answer for what they're doing, this debate doesn't make any sense we're just wasting unnecessary time. I'm in favour of anyone who's ordered unprofessionally unprofessionally to sanction him to come to those who will work more professionally and professionally. If there are certain and someone is working illegally to sanction him legally. So it must finally start to answer for its work results because otherwise if I say so today is the situation we have discussed today we are satisfied with the situation and nothing will happen to anyone will continue and then nothing will happen to us then we have done nothing. The worst thing that could happen and that's what he says now was the revision in the Croatian Post Office now certainly won't be right next month and next year he'll go somewhere else now we can continue doing what we want because I am very interested in what the results will be in 2011. Is this audit seen in 2009 and 2010. Now I'm interested in when they were sure that in 2011, there will be no revision, whether there has been an improvement in whether what the review found... a change or some things have happened considering that the revision will certainly not come to us immediately next year. Therefore, these internal audits that need to be set up and that must work effectively are important, but internal audits that will not be just listeners of the administration again, but if they are listeners of the administration, we haven't done much. So, the aim of this debate is to point to problems like this, and to make a change, to make a change with smaller money in public procurement, to get a better service and to get more services quantifiable than it has ever been. If there are no more quality services and there are no more services and with the same money we haven't done much, and especially if nothing happens to anyone, we've lost time, and I don't think that's our goal, our goal is to make things better and...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5153	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB representative, Mr Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's the gentlemen from the state audit today we've been together all day. But I must commend you again may be too much. For the first time we have a report that is even illustrated here this time we watch HP express car and then one scale of this judicial scale of justice etc. So that's really what I'd say considering here's the fifth year I've been in the Croatian Parliament and a novelty that so far we have a single phone, a typewriter, etc. a postage stamp with these tables that are also here this way may be easier to read than such dry text. But let us put aside the form and form of the report itself rather than talk about the revision of the efficiency of public procurement in the Croatian Post Office d.d. When we say post office in general and especially Croatian post office then we really have to have a lot of years when I remember when the mail really was I would say something that meant I wouldn't say life but a relationship, contact with the whole world, clearly and with all parts of Croatia and then the former state. Here we are today witnessing that in the Republic of Croatia many postal offices and those with good communication are even cut off. From the Croatian Post Office in the form it was used before '91, others are clear that we all know how to privatise and sell telecommunications transmitters and connections as it is already called and the basic activity of the Croatian Post Office remains. In addition to all this, competing companies or companies have appeared privately that I do not now list or advertise the companies that have appeared and which are even legally enabled and competition against Croatia's post office which I would say some legal regulations have even been suitable for these private postal service providers. So the Croatian Post Office would say in one word come in some way round in the form of the basic one in which we imagine the writer and supplier of speeds and possible packages, etc. Public procurement, so here they have already said that in 2010, when we talk about the financial impact or revision compared to the year before it increased from 205 to 267 million kuna or 62 million kuna. And when it turns into percentages, then 205 and 65 million kuna is almost a third or about 28% increase. Is it really an increase in public procurement of 28% also appropriate to increase the income of Croatian Post Offices or was it knocked up or purchased and went public and without saying material bases and possibilities of return and medical... these funds. And it's the State Audit Office that explains that thing in my mind to say those recommendations and to explain that public procurement. So it is said that particular attention should be paid to reducing the total number of official means of transport or to resorting to a lower class, so not to some luxurious or super expensive models, reducing maintenance costs, redistributing to an efficient organisation of work and others. This is what any host who has a car at home or who has a car and who thinks about his household, about the cost, would conclude the cost and so should be. Whether or not this will happen that our State Audit is well-intentioned and in good faith recommends here is what we will see starting with the 2011 report and later. I am convinced that this debate in the Croatian Parliament and this really active participation of the gentlemen from the State Audit will also contribute to the fact that all of us, clearly starting with our parliamentary representatives, but also those who are in the executive power of the ministries and in the ministry of this word and the debates of the Assembly MPs, will not come as a threat but simply start in good faith, and even more in good faith, and that in fact the recommendations of the State Audit should not be well-intentioned, but simply that all those who do so are conscious and conscious that these recommendations in the future would not be necessary or that they should be to a lesser extent. So what I've already recorded here is construction works and investments, etc. which are covered by audits, i.e. contracts for construction and craft work in the maintenance of facilities in Zagreb, Osijek, Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretva County, annual maintenance of the GPS system for 230 vehicles, editing and equipment of the post office premises. So Malinska and Velika Gorica which is actually when we look at that again, let me say a partial revision of these five counties, 1 city right, Osijek and we have Malinska and Velika Gorica. Two cities, so Osijek and Velika Gorica, Malinska I don't know if it belongs to Krka or if it belongs to the municipality itself. That's what I'm telling you right now, I don't know. But, therefore, all of this is about the fact that it's probably the same trend, the same procedures, the same mode of work are probably in others to tell mails that aren't covered by this revision. But here, we are waiting in 2011, so we will see what trends are in business or in the efficiency of public procurement in Croatia's society, and clearly that trends and a little better winds should also blow in other public enterprises owned by the Croatian state. And then I think that much less money would be poured out where they don't need it, where they're losing track of it, and much more still in the state budget for all the needs of today our citizens actually have. The HDSSB club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5155	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate of ten minutes. First, MP Damir Rilje signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5156	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Assistant Minister, the Honorable Mr. Chief State Auditor with his associates and associates. Here I couldn't stand it in this late hour, although here I was and I thought as some that maybe there would be some other clock that would actually include one of the more important companies in terms of property, property, ownership of property that this company actually has in its possession. I'm very sorry that there's only public procurement here. It was based on the year 2008, 2009. It also covers some 2010 when it comes to public procurement procedures, supplies of goods, implementation and the like. But here's a few sentences I'd like to try as short as possible. Croatian Post Office is a company that actually, as I said, is rich in real estate and movables, resources, material and human. She had great market potential, and I think she has it today. And as in the previous report on the audit and efficiency of management of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, this is a very good report that opens eyes, but also a question. In fact, the report and its results are very sad and it creates the first question of what is today, which is complete, which would show a complete revision that would include asset management, human resources and financial potential, in short financial business. One complete audit. It's a company that came out of HPT, so it's divided into HT and HP, so we're not leaving early. But I'm not sure that all the assets have even distinguished between HT and HP until today. Of course, HP invested in HT, but it's an old story, so there was privatisation, and then it came out of HP in some way and the HPB had its share. Well, I guess there's more. By my knowledge, they have about 30% until recently, sooner and more. HP had a market share under special law. Therefore, before any liberalisation for them were envisaged to provide services reserved for postal services. Later these services were given the opportunity to do universal postal services. It is an old story that has taken place before in the previous meetings of the Croatian Parliament. That's what they were talking about, but in public. So, still, only in 2013 comes full liberalisation. But I don't think the Croatian Post Office should be afraid of that. Unfortunately, today it mainly deals with retail trade in small and small parts of expensive financial services. Some restructuring was carried out there and, of course, there were redundancies of workers. It was this company that had the opportunity for stable economic growth and all the preconditions for that. This is shown by examples of countries that have become members of the European Union whose mail is not privatised but which function neatly. Of course, if we do not want to compare immediately with the Netherlands or some other countries that may have gotten a little too far from us. And we have to go some way to catch up in economic and organisational terms. It's a miracle that this company with all its potentials, a large network of mail, employees, suppliers and vehicles are also not actually more competitive. The fact that it does not do its basic activity and what happened in the competition on our market has largely broken down the market capital that only Croatian mail has unlike any other. Maybe the City Express to say so publicly is one of the stronger ones that appeared on the market, but as a service for universal postal services. So then there was a debate about what's what. By reading the assessment of the effectiveness of public procurement on the last page of the report, where the State audit has, in turn, assessed that public procurement is not fully satisfactory and effective and that it does not fully achieve the objectives that ensure the improvement of quality and increase of services. An effective internal control system in the procurement process has not been established in society, so a number of recommendations are actually given to state-of-the-art. What I've just read is actually taken out of size, and I'm not going to convince any further what you've stated, which is what we can all convince, or read, and I believe we've done it, but the state of a company that's actually structural in this way is catastrophic because if public procurement is such that it's not like that. Through the recommendations made by the State Audit Office, it was evident that it was not working with the other in a way that was appropriate. Therefore, if public procurement does not go as I have already said under the law, that is, if there are so many irregularities, because it may be too difficult to say by law because there are also some components where you show that they are in line with the Management Strategy and similar in Croatia mail and that there is a plan by which public procurement will be established to function as it should, but it is important to stress that the business of such infrastructure firms is of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia and that it should be provided with development and manage optimally its resources. Of course, the supply of resources comes from procurement, from proper and proper procurement and from asset management. It is evident from the report of the revenue and expenditure achieved that the company achieved 253.8 million in 2008, with a loss of 198 million for 2009 and a state of supply, stock management, implementation and the objectives of the purchased goods being processed for 2010 and 2011. By observing the balance sheet, long-term and short-term commitments in 2009 amounted to HRK 451 million while claims and supplies were combined heavy in 2009 262 million. Does this mean that the liabilities that have been greatly increased are invested in short-term assets that record growth because the same year has seen a decline in the value of long-term assets. Of course, this data should be monitored for 2010 and 2011. I'm not going to talk about what's here but someone, but on several occasions, my colleagues were talking about embezzling bonds, corporate bonds of 21 million euros, or about 160 million kuna. But of course it's a matter to be questioned anyway. The following is your report, taking into account the public knowledge in the media during 2010 of the job contract for about 1600 employees. How many of them are now in the system and whether further layoffs are being prepared I don't know, but publicly reported in the media that in 2010 the cost of employees fell from 72 to 62%. The offer of services in the basic service of 2008 abolished the untypted letter and the first mass rate increased to 50 grams, with the services accumulated by 95%. And the rebates, i.e. the discounts on the large users who send their reports and accounts mass, were also abolished, so that the reserved portion of postal services and other written shipments up to 20 and up to 50 grams, respectively. The effects of this are reduced competitiveness in the market for these services which cannot be compensated by secondary services. When the sum of the effects is saved from the above-mentioned collection according to the average number of written services, the cost of reducing the number of workers and eliminating the discount then the company should currently operate with a considerable profit. Because these are all costs that have been reduced. Although with such savings, if they are not focused on development, they lose competitiveness on the market. It is also a controversial relationship within the meaning of the Law on Post and Use of Exclusive Law still until 2013 on the provision of reserved letter services. The current society organization is, of course, in a transformation as far as I know and how publicly it has been written, and how much personal knowledge I have is such that they come into conflict delivery and reception. Therefore, two basic components consisting of providing Croatian mail services. And here, finally, to finish slowly, this State Audit Office report needs to be accepted, so I accept it, because through the controlled public procurement system, it is actually a picture of the general state that needs to be changed in the HP system. It is too many people and the trend in the growth of postal services on average and in the countries of Europe is not great, but I am holding and finishing, that the system should be consolidated and directed towards optimal market action before any liberalisation of services coming next year, which is the basis of the activities of the Croatian Post Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5157	Thank you. Next up for debate, Mr. Damir Mateljan's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. State Auditor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's hard at the end of the day with this many hours and this audience being smart enough so I'll try to be as short as possible. In fact, I can agree with the report of this review and I agree with that, but I cannot agree with the way the Croatian Post Office works, and even less with the practice of public procurement in the same Croatian post office. Something about doing business in the Croatian Post Office. In fact, by the end of 2009, the Croatian Post Office started with a project called the so-called the reorganisation, which was continued in 2010, 2011 and this year 2012. This reorganisation would in itself not have caused some sort of surprise or public interest if it had not caused a revolution on the ground, therefore with the citizens themselves of the Croatian Post Office services, a revolt due to the closure of many postal offices especially in rural areas. And it has also caused revolt among Croatian postal employees themselves, but they have been ordered not to talk about the issue under the threat of firing. The resulting situation leads to very illogical and unclear procedures by the company administration as well as by the Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications and, in particular, from the former Ministry of Transport and Inotrin in the Republic of Croatia. Croatian mail conducted a reshuffle study has divided into four sectors, or what they sound like four divisions. It's a division of post office, a division of networks and a division of HP express and a division of support and ultimately the administration itself. I would refer first of all to this first sector, namely the first division, and that is the department of mail for reasons because I believe that within the company, it was not able to protect or recognise what it was, but rather, in the way of rerouting business to private companies, it is breaking the postal service law. However, although the Law on Postal Services in Articles 9(1) and (3) clearly provides for what are reserved services and who in the Republic of Croatia is solely entitled to shipments of up to 50 grams, this does not prevent private companies from taking over the business provided for in the Croatian Post Office. I am therefore amazed at the knowledge that the Croatian Post Office is so easily denied the prescribed rights and that a million-dollar stalking business leaves to private companies registered abroad and operating in the Republic of Croatia under very unsettled conditions. It is even more apparent that the Croatian Post Office itself favours private companies in taking over already contracted transactions and thus directly harms not only the Croatian Post Office but also the state of Croatia as the owner of the company. For example, there is also a contract between the Croatian Post Office and a telecommunications company in the Republic of Croatia, which was taken over by a private company and it became the main distributor... the shipment and it is a business involving a circus of 2 million consignors and 6 million kunas of valuable work, without doing anything to protect the interests of the public company. The following questions are therefore raised, why the management of the Croatian Post Office, together with its management, did not know how to protect its interests and thus ensure a significant profit for why the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency did not monitor the work of all public operators i.e. the postal service provider and in time warned of irregularities in such a timely manner as to prevent illegal business. Why did the Ministry of Transport allow the reorganisation study to be conducted even though such a study violated certain principles such as the principle of equal representation of the network, so that some end now distanced from the postal offices up to 35 kilometers away. Such a sloppy reshuffle calls into question the constitutional clause itself which guarantees every citizen the right to use business postal services. In the end, a few lines about the public procurement itself. This report shows that public procurement in the Croatian Post Office is not implemented under the Public Procurement Act. First of all, Croatia's mail does not prepare purchase plans, and the documentation is adapted to individual customers. The internal control of the operation is not operational, it is evidence that the Office for Internal Audit and Control has not carried out any public procurement procedures. Second, procedures are carried out before the funds are provided by a financial plan which is again contrary to the Public Procurement Act. Third, the procurement plans do not state the positions of the financial plan as sources of financing. Fourthly, the Supervisory Board shall not be provided with a statistical review of the acquisition and the record of the performance of the plans, contrary to the Internal Design and Work Systematization Regulation. The fourth, stock management strategies, raw materials were not adopted to allow for more rational procurement planning. Such practice is also at the expense of Croatian mail as a public undertaking in the long term, it is to the detriment of the state as a whole and it is to the detriment of the whole of society because this is how prices of services are bought and competitiveness on the market falls. However, it may be necessary to say in the end that the management of the Croatian Post Office is chosen by a public tender, and by some chance this management member of the HDZ, which is, of course, the fruit of chance and not the intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5159	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Next up for debate, MP Mr Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5160	Dear Vice President, the state's chief auditors with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I am the last in the debate tonight on the day of the revision in the Croatian Parliament, the day of the State Audit Report which I will try and in this step for the effectiveness of public procurement in Croatia, to say that the successful state audit has done its job according to these reports that it has done. With this efficiency that I mentioned on behalf of the HNS Club as our view of necessity in this example, it definitely indicates that it is something that is extremely necessary to apply in a broader sense in all not just the ministries, especially companies that are making their income as Croatia's mail exceeds billions, this is about a billion and 700 million kuna, and unfortunately for expenditures slightly greater. Those colleagues and colleagues have said a lot so there is no need of course to repeat things, it is not meaningful and it would not be polite except to point out that the unsatisfactory and inefficient public procurement was in the Croatian Post Office, we are talking only about public procurement of about 200, 260 million kunas which you have analyzed through documents and through the system and revenues and expenditures are almost 2 billion kuna. Which we will not be divulging but obviously this revision points to the problems and other segments that are needed in the analysis because it has been mentioned and mentioned but I must stress that the long-term commitments recorded have increased by 20m euros and 1m euros. Coli Baranovic mentioned it, the state audit did not quite deal with it, only such a smut of debt, but there were no conditions, the purpose of the task could be to say that it was the same part of public procurement, they obtained funds liquid, neither when obligations came nor whether the company could subscribe from regular business. These are huge amounts. According to the 2009 balance sheet, the company is not able to pay off its liabilities from regular business and the audit has not found that although it is seen from tables or short-term assets are equal to claims plus stocks plus financial assets totaling 324 million kuna, and they are less than the obligation and this would be the same as needed for efficiency regardless of what may be done at times in public procurement, but when the balance sheet is touched when the Crucial Things are touched that the audit still gives its opinion because, in fact, in 2009 the company was not liquid and the question of whether it can settle its obligations which is extremely important as the fact that you should know or enter into your report. What's equally significant and not mentioned I'm just going to say that there is an internal control system not mentioned in the debate, of course, is mentioned in this report. In 2009 and 2010, the internal audit system that exists in Croatia also submitted its reports to the administration. The management didn't accept it, she didn't refuse to comment. It would be very interesting why they didn't comment on why they didn't refuse in the sense that the written explanation is said, because I believe and you have stressed there are professional people and quality, there are other equipment and professions quality people who know how to do good work, which is basically the management that stopped the work of internal audit, which would not only make it easier for you to do the work that you have done for a whole year, which is extremely important for other public sector companies that internal audits work freely and independently as you do, and it may be another one of the messages and quality of work through this report that internal audits within the company are doing their work, which your part of the work may be simplified to do independently and quality and I believe in this coalition government that this will be done, and that the effectiveness of not only the public procurement that the cancer of the wounds that has been shown that I am not listing these amounts where they have been mentioned that a few million more or more or more paid to millions, etc. It's totally irrational it has nothing to do with efficiency, it's basically doing damage to the company and society. What is crucial is that these internal audits in all companies are doing their job independently and that you are nevertheless covering for efficiency not only of public procurement but also of the efficiency and other public sector companies for the benefit of this society for the benefit of the work of both this Government and this Assembly and for the quality of progress of the entire community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5161	Thank you. We've exhausted the candidates for the debate. Do you want to do this on behalf of the Proposer? Here you go, Mr. Klesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5162	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I believe you're all already tired and we're tired of us from the State Audit, but allow me just a few more words at the very end. So here I thank you for all your opinions on all your suggestions, thank you and for your criticisms because we will be sure to consider all of this and try to install it into our future work. I must point out that all what is written in the State Audit reports are irrefutable facts be sure of this, facts which have been established by the state auditors on the basis of the documentation presented to us. All audit entities always have the possibility of legal certainty to use the Institute of Objections to the Chief State Auditor. No one has used it, and no one has used it because it is truly indisputable facts. Let me just say a few more words about the work of the State Audit itself, given that this is not only a report on the audits carried out but also a report on the work of the State Audit, so that the State Audit can do quality of its work The State Audit must indeed be a completely independent institution. By entering the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, by adopting a new Law on the State Office for Audit last year, but also by one event that took place in December of last year, which is that the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution that is extremely important, and it is important for all the top audit institutions of the INTO SAIL community to be fully independent just in order not to have any negative impact on state auditors by the audit entities or any external factors. This independence of the State Audit does not mean that the State Audit is sufficient for itself. I think that's exactly what we're proving with one, I'd really say an extremely high-quality co-operation with the State Attorney's Office with the DIP courts where, in these last parliamentary elections, the State Audit also contributed to people's compliance, etc. and in all other intellectual services. What's extremely important is I still have to mention about our new Law on the State Audit Office, which was passed last year, I had a lot of questions. The law allows the State to review that we are no longer required to operate units of local self-government every year. I had a lot of questions and they said so why don't you guys really work local self-government anymore? Of course that's incorrect. That's what the esteemed representative Zgrebec noticed very well. We're going to work units of local self-government and we're going to keep doing all the big cities, we're going to do all the county centers, and according to our methodology, we're going to do... and we're going to put in that plan those units that should be done. So the units of local self-government are working but this law allows us to do something else, and that leaves us with space that we don't have to do 300, 400 units, but these 120 have left room for us to do an efficiency review. This is exactly the important thing and right now is under way to revise the efficiency of the collection of income in local self-government units. It's a very interesting subject. In that sense, we are now starting to educate our people to carry out an efficiency review. That's what we do here in Zagreb. And since we have established very good relations with the State Audit and the Austrian Court of Auditors of the Republic of Austria, and we have agreed with them a seminar of one education which they will carry out for the state auditors of the Republic of Croatia in early September here in Croatia, and I think it is extremely important for the training of the state auditors of the Republic of Croatia so that they can really do these very difficult and complex audits. This is because we have come to an end allow me, on my personal behalf, to be the chief state auditor of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of my associates, on behalf of the entire Office, to thank all of you and the entire Croatian public for the attention you have shown us today throughout this day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5163	I thank Mr. Klesic. That's what ended the discussion. I thank the Assistant Minister of Finance, a representative of the government. I'd like to thank the state's chief auditor with my associates. We kept them up all this time. Carefully, they diligently recorded our debate as important. I hope that the next debate of this guy will be something contained in them that we discussed today. We're done with the agenda. We'll vote tomorrow. Tomorrow we continue with the work point Final proposal of the Social Care Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 50th and by tomorrow you'll have a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-07-0.u5164	I Report on the review of the efficiency of public procurement in the company HP Croatia post office d.d. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The report on the effectiveness of public procurement carried out in the company HP Croatia post office d.d. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you very much. I find that the conclusion is accepted by most votes, 105 votes to and 2 against, no one abstentions. My colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all! Before we continue our regular work, allow all representatives of the Croatian Parliament to congratulate the International Women's Day on 8 March. We move to - Final proposal of the Social Care Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 50 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. Would the proposaler's representative whom I also warmly welcome explain the proposal? Here you go. Mr Darko Ledinski, Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth.
