ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14499	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's as you probably noticed my passion for putting forward legal proposals to the government is moderate but in this case I simply think that this is one of the proposals that I think certainly deserves to be spent on it a little bit of your time, to make your proposals, suggestions, to pass on some of your life experiences because we expect and hope it can be a good platform for a complete change of concept compared to the previous years that this government of economic concepts and strategies this government is trying to inaugurate. In fact, one rigorous defensive strategy is trying to go into the development cycle. In this development cycle, therefore, with one offensive strategy in this development cycle, things will not work out without calling for help from all those who can, and certainly this is about private investment as a key contribution that we can get and who we expect. When I came to the post of vice president I had one conversation, even before actually, one round of talks I had before the elections I guess my colleagues from the EU and from some other countries were teaching us some changes but then right after the election another one, and there they presented to me a list of everything they think about, what they estimate and evaluate as key obstacles in their business with Croatia and their investments. In any case, I was formally presented by 27 EU members. What I told them at the time is that as far as I'm concerned, they knock on the open door, that everything they've listed there, and much more and much worse, all business entities in Croatia live for a long decade. For years, I have been in the business of making it perfectly clear to me what they are talking about and that this is not the problem of EU countries and that this is not the problem of a foreign investor, it is simply the problem of investors in Croatia and it will not be solved so quickly and so simply. But of course it is necessary to make a complete turn and it is necessary to make a move. After that, in a whole series of mildly said incredible interpretations that you occasionally have in our media the opportunity to hear one of such additionally surprising and completely out of mind was an interpretation of the responsibility of this new government to fall on the competitiveness scale for the 5 seats that were published this year, showing the situation in 2010 and 2011. Anything is possible in this country. You can be guilty of things before you were born and it's no wonder. I wasn't very surprised about that. But what this data tells us is that one continuity falls at one point only had one small recovery on that scale, unfortunately after that continuity falls, telling us that we will have to take serious measures. And what I've just completed here is a meeting with a group of irrigation projects and we're going to go out with one strategy that will have clearly defined carriers and deadlines unlike this strategy that have nothing solid behind them, and I can tell you here that if we don't move on that scale in a good direction so we start climbing up, then please nicely here's a public one, please choose to call me out, you have all the reasons for that, is that it's part of my job. So we have to make that move. Not only mine, it's part of the job, deputy, it's part of the whole team's work. That'll be easy to verify. Now we're where we are, I think we're thinking now 21st or whoever we are, so we'll see how things move next year. To make a move, in order to begin to recognize us as people who seriously mean what they're saying, this is one of the laws that are key to that message. I personally found it very indicative when I was talking to one of our biggest companies the other day heard their information that in the final round, there were several countries in the game, in the final round there were two others, one country that was probably a leader in attracting foreign investment in Europe and we, an estimated where to go with an investment order of 50 million euros, with an indicative of 150 first-rate high-school people who should be employed there is, if something fails to mess up, the choice is Croatia and moves in Croatia. The decision was made on the basis of the bill we presented, and we said when that investment started, this is the law behind which we stand, and this is the law that will pass in the Parliament, and these are the measures that you will have as an incentive. So I just want to tell you that at this preparatory stage when you're dating the laws that are moving, we've already had the law, that law was good, but when you're dating laws that are moving that help and already with such serious investments, it's effective. We, of course, have fully leveled domestic and foreign investments, and I don't need to underline it to you at all because it's quite clear. Money does not say name and last name, equality is complete at the height and availability of support. This law also represents the completion of the first phase of the investment environment improvement measure, which includes more. There is an Agency for Investments and Competitiveness which is one of the important instruments to realize what this law says. Here is a completely changed structure with Minister Maras, Croatian Agency for Small Economy, HAMAG Invest. And that's where the shifts are expected because the law you'll see on that segment has one completely new approach to investments in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The basic messages we're sending here are heading towards our so far recorded investors and, of course, those we want to attract. Four countries in Austria, the Netherlands, Germany and Hungary with Luxemburg as a point in which finance went through de facto 2/3 of all investments in Croatia so far. You also know that in industry it ended up about every 5 euros, so where did the investors go. In the first stage in sectors of financial and service and market purchases. Market spaces were being bought. Now the story has changed completely, we no longer have the opportunity to offer serious shifts, of course some yes but no serious shifts in that offer. We need to step up our offer to the industrial sector strongly. What are novelties? I've already told micro-enterprises, it's very important. So far, so far, no parole. Tourism as a working and capital intensive activity has never been encouraged, we have always talked about tourism as a key branch. We've never turned that into an operational measure. This time we insisted that it happen. We believe that this will make an important contribution to an activity that is terribly important, but it is borderline. Until HBOR started the programme for 17 years, 3+14 objectively no one had reason to invest in tourism in Croatia. Now these shifts are made and these investments are growing. Employment incentives as cash support that should not go through investment in long-term assets at the same time encourage investment in long-term assets without incentives for employment, so both, those investing in new technologies will get incentives, of course, with the obligation to retain. They don't have to increase, but keeping jobs. It'll cover them part of the cost because new technologies are rationalizing that number. Or those who invest in jobs. High-tech technologies have special incentives, new drives have special incentives, we doubled the job amounts to 3.6 and 9,000 euros, we especially treat unemployment areas up to 10, 10 to 20 and above 20%. So a whole range of news. What is also important is to reduce the upper threshold of the value of the investment after which the entrepreneur is completely exempt from the profit tax to 3m euros from the current 8m euros. That I don't burden you too much. In counties where extremely high unemployment with employment is, for example, 182 persons, the maximum aid effect of 12.28 million kuna is achieved. It's lines, sizes, borders, so we know what we're talking about. Of course, the necessary and sublegal acts that are foreseen here are also necessary, especially when it comes to major projects and that this whole story could be quality realised you will have in relatively short time and laws that will speed up on major projects and simplify administrative procedures and simplify decision-making. What this experience of these first eight months in the government tells me is that on a whole series, I'm not talking about hundreds of small investments, but let's say for these tens of large ones, two, three quite concrete ones that, measured by rows of several hundred million euros, were actually standing by and no one knew why. But absolutely no one knew why. That's what I was talking about. I'll mention it one more time. The water twice a hundred million dollars stood, stood, stood, and no one knew why. And then in the end, come on now, it's been a couple of months now. It's been settled for about a month, no. There's more of them. Unfortunately, one I've been waiting for has been standing for two years and still standing. Eight months we've been fighting this, eight months I've been calling the ministers and every time I ask the audio, and so on. Every time I ask again what the problem is and every time she tells me nothing. I hope we can work it out. I mean, this is a system that's completely rusted, where all the vessels are clogged, where no one wants to make a decision, and we have to break that system. Someone's got to make a decision. This law is a good basis for things to move, but it will not do much by itself. He was not bad before, he was less competitive than other European countries, but he was not bad. However, the effects were not radiant. In addition to the Investment Encouragement Act, much more important is the ability, determination, energy in the realisation of these same ones, the preparation and realization of these same investments, and we all have yet to prove ourselves together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14500	Thank you, too. The remaining time shall be provided for the presentation of the applicant's representative. Mr. Gordan Maras will be used by the Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14501	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here is after the presentation of the first Vice President Cacic where he is, in essence, and said that the law is not only necessary to change but it is necessary to change the way and attitude towards investors and those who want to invest in Croatia and to open jobs what we are doing these first 9 months. But as he said this system was jammed and this law I am sure will be what we in Zagreb say a good impulse to blow up a little bit, to start with investments and to go I would say positive, and how bad the situation has been in recent years we all know. If we look just, much better and it'll be better what's especially important to Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[/Intruding Stazic: Just a little minister. My colleagues, I'd like to ask you not to throw it out of the bench. Let the Minister explain the bill.]] It is very important to say that the last I would say 4.5 years of investment is almost gone and not in Croatia. 2010. In the years, we had only 297.5m euros of foreign direct investment, which is the weakest result since the beginning of Croatia after the war. At the same time, a larger country in the Czech Republic had 5 billion. It says enough how much it's been and how much we've worked to attract foreign investors, not to mention those special measures on the abolition of agencies that were just being set up to attract a particular investor. We are in the midst of the strongest crisis to end this agency, and unfortunately, the results are what they are. This law is something that will dramatically improve the situation both in the number of investments in Croatia and in the number of users. It is especially important for me to note that we dramatically reduce the amounts needed to achieve a particular incentive. The micro-entrepreneurs' incentive at the moment will probably allow, from Friday, that is, that for the amount of investment of 50000 euros and with the new three jobs you can achieve a boost for each job of between 3 and 9000 euros. Also, the tax incentives 50% tax cuts per 5-year period. So this is a clear message. Every investor is important to us, and I would even say not only to foreign investors, because most of these retail investors will be from Croatia. We are and it is worth mentioning here dimming people in Croatia to invest and then we wonder why everyone saves. Why are 200 billion kunas in banks? Well, just because we've been detiming them for the last four years, five years to invest in their own country. When you look at the data from 2007 to 2011, we had 30,000 investors from the territory of the Republic of Croatia in 2007, 30 000 Croatian entrepreneurs invested. In 2008, it immediately fell to 20, 2009. 25, 23 and finally 2011. 21. So almost half the investors and people of entrepreneurs in Croatia decided to invest in 2011 rather than 2008. And that's a very clear message. We didn't even take care of Croatian investors, and I've already said that we took care of those on the outside. The Czech Republic 5 billion, we 297 million euros. 20 times less. It's a very clear message of what's been going on for the past four years. You save Croatian investors in banks, and someone else will invest. Perhaps the financial institutions will benefit more from the money that you have provided from the bank. It doesn't matter that it's in production, that nothing is invested in the industry. And we want to change that. And we're going to change very quickly with this relationship said by the first Deputy Prime Minister Cacic about business. There's no more you can't. In accordance with the law, it must be very efficient and quickly distributed to investors. We'll increase incentives. And I'll tell you one more thing. The first quarter of this year is negative for investment. For the first time since then, I'd say from the beginning, after 15, 16 years. So in 2012, the first quarter is negative for investment. So there are no foreign investments in Croatia but even capital flows out. For what? Because there was nothing done to change relations in Croatia. Now, after I say, I would also get confirmation from international credit agencies, which is very good as a message that Croatia is worth investing, that the perspectives are positive. Now that we adopt this law which will expand the number of users of incentives, which will expand the number of incentives Croatia invests along with those who want my I would say money quality investment we can expect a significant growth in investment by the end of the year. Already at this point, and of course we said big investments took a little more time since they stood, unfortunately public enterprises were totally reluctant to start any investment cycle, but I can say that we have some positive trends based on what the government was doing for the first 8.9 months in small and medium enterprises. So there's more investment in 5% than in the last year, and I'm saying this law still hasn't come into force. When it comes into effect with a whole series of measures that we have provided through HBOR's most favourable interest and loans through quality guarantees from the Croatian Small Economy Agency it is interesting that the Croatian Small Economy Agency has in three months more guarantees than it has had all year round. So you can. We had an agency for a small economy that didn't issue guarantees. She had 100 guarantees all year round. I mean, who does that serve? We have to change the concept, we have to put the state in a position to support investors and entrepreneurs, and I especially stress our investors who have not been looked after in the last four years to start things, so that in Croatia we have more work for our citizens and more investment for our citizens. I am convinced that this law through incentives for micro-entrepreneurs, tax incentives, customs incentives, through incentives to capital investments with the retention of the number of employees and this is also important today in Croatia to say you need to keep some companies with an increase in productivity, I should say the number of employees and for this should be given incentives if you are going to increase productivity, in better equipment, investment in equipment and machines etc. So that's what we introduced. These things will certainly change the blood count we have in Croatia today. And what is particularly important, what we hear every day on the ground I would all say to stakeholders and entrepreneurs and foreign investors and I would say the European Commission is assessing this law positively. I hope that this House will also receive unanimous support from colleagues from HDZ because our interest in all of Croatia is the same as the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14502	Thank you, too. This presentation of yours has prompted four colleagues on the line. First honorary representative Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Maras, you said we've demoted people in Croatia for investment, and they're only saving, we have 200 million kuna savings. Why? Billions, I apologize. So who will normally invest in Croatia when tax policies change, when tax rates change, when retroactively something is taxed, when there is an additional tax on dividends, when there is an additional tax on income, when there is an additional tax on paid profits, when there is a tax on property tax, or what does Minister Linic say about the Real estate law? And what should investors do? Well, everyone in their right mind will be saving. And why would he be saving? Because there's no interest tax, no one mentions interest tax. Not you, not the government, not the government officials. Well, it makes sense that people will save, and they won't invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14504	Second replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14505	Thank you very much. I will speak more in my debate, but I would like to say something at the beginning of what is a fact, which is true and what can be checked in the Law on, in fact, in the report on the implementation of the budget for the first six months. And that, Mr. First Vice President, Mr. Minister, has stopped the investments in which the workshops were opened, where it started to work, where the funds were secured, so everything was under way. I can tell you an example of the elementary school in Novi Čič, Velika Gorica, for 8 months only two workers have held a construction site. Map, investment of Croatian roads, Velika Gorica-Domovinski bridge 2.5 km of road you have been stretching for 8 months without speaking this part of the highway from Buševac to Lekenik. So, the works are under way, the funds are secure, why are you dragging it around for a year and a half when you could, it's just proof that cosmetically they would show you everything in the budget. You will simply see that in the Ministry of Education and some other ministries you have stopped all investments or told the performers that they are invoiced to you next year so that the picture will be more financially beautiful to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14506	Like this, the first vice president like this, the replica was addressed to the minister's presentation... Just a little Minister Maras. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The replica was addressed to the presentation of Minister Maras. Both of you, as proposing representatives, can come forward at any time when the debate opens, and now it can, if it wants to be answered by Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14507	I apologize, it's been nine months since I've been here, so I'm not familiar with these new rules, but I can answer as a replica, but thank you a beautiful replica is always better than correcting an incorrect quote. Because perhaps Mr. Schucker would have used this as a correction to an incorrect assumption not, that was the way it was in the last term.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14508	Minister Maras, we don't have any correct allegations. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14509	No, but I didn't mean you specifically, anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14510	Minister Maras, please respond to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14511	I'm sorry. I didn't mean Mr. Shucker. I meant all the MPs, so I just happened to have pulled the wrong quote. As far as Mr. MP is concerned, tax policy is changing, and that's why people... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14512	You can only, Minister Maras like this, we've changed the Rules of Procedure. You can respond to the replica of counsel Shuker. And you missed the call to respond to the replica of President Babic. So you have another minute and 22 seconds if you want to replicate to counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14513	Okay, thank you very much. I'd be happy to respond to Mr. Shucker's replica that we've made it so he can tell us what's better in the budget. Because it was probably more likely for Mr. Shucker when the deficit was 15 billion than when he was 10. And now that we have a budget better than it was last year, no matter what we've charged for 3 billion kuna entrepreneurs, imagine that illogicality, better tax collection, more orderly business, and we've charged the entrepreneurs 3 billion kuna and 5 billion more income. Well, instead of Mr. Schucker not mentioning it at all because the least he's doing is we've seen the list of debtors, we've seen how tax is not paid for years. Now he's still talking like you're showing that you're okay, so he's giving us a team if the deficit is 5 billion less. Well, it's not possible that you'd want the deficit to be 5 billion more, so that's okay with you. Mr. Schuker, you must know that this government is in favour of tax redistribution of the economy because we have removed 2% of the contributions, we have also released the reinvested profit tax, the investments that will go from the reinvested profits are tax-free on profits, and we have a particularly fiscal consolidation that is after 4.5 years. Showed that Croatia can have a stable and perspective rating, not unlike when you were a minister when we went down with the rating year after year. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14514	Thank you very much. This way, counsel Shuker, I'm asking you nicely not to throw, I beg you nicely, kindly please. I'm asking you not to throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I warned the minister that he had to answer and who he had to answer to, and he followed my warning and answered you. But let us, in the interest of all of us, in the interest of the integrity of this House, not to throw ourselves at each other, to respect each other, to respect even the minister, no matter how likable you are, but to respect them when they speak for the speaker here. We have a third replica of Honorable Representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14515	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a particular replica for Mr. Minister Maras, and I will gladly have him answer to me. A very specific example. I agree that we need to improve foreign investment, and I agree with the idea that the state where there can't be other investments goes with its investments. In the Ministry of Culture you have tens of millions of kuna on the item of reconstruction of fixed cultural goods. When authorities were handed over or taken over from the Kukuriku coalition, the council was changed immediately after the authorities were handed over, the Cultural Goods Council changed, all procedures were to determine what would be financed by the end of February, from the end of February to the 6th month there was no renewal contract for immovable cultural goods. They're standing on the desk of the assistant minister in charge of cultural heritage, asking for a signature. Your council of your government appointed or competent ministers, all completed in late February, more than two hundred licensed crafts and small entrepreneurs who specialize in such types of work all spring does not work. You are the minister who is in charge of small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, you know how important it is to have some of these crafts and survive because they have no other opportunity to do such things, how important it is for Croatian culture 4 months of pain, tabula... Look at the last few years these contracts came out at the end of February until March so that it could be negotiated because the restoration of cultural goods has its own dynamics of work. It's not a bugger and hit the cubes, but there are some procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14516	4th Replicator Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maras, I don't really know if I can call you a minister because you obviously forgot that you're a minister in the Croatian government. We expected from your time at your disposal after Vice President Cacic that you would say something really about the law itself, unfortunately you didn't say anything about the law. We even had the intention to make a relatively positive statement about the law except for some things that might have to be done, but you used your time to calculate some past and even made that bunch of false. You probably don't even have the right information, so I'll tell you. You mentioned the public sector in last year, Croatia's electricity industry, which Mr. Cacic certainly knows last year has invested 2 billion kuna. JANAF you know very well how large projects have started, how much investment is invested in these projects and how much money remains in the account in the public company. Plinacro invested more than 200 million kuna last year, back 7 years built over 2,000 kilometers of master oil pipeline, that's just some data. And of those investments you found in preparation last year, you didn't carry on, unfortunately, anything. You have in this year Minister Maras dropped investment 6% compared to last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14518	Minister, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14519	So the figures are inexorable, the GDP decline 2.1%, the growth of unemployment in the middle of the tourist season, you have a decline in consumption in this year and a decline in industrial production. The figures are unfortunately inexorable, but instead of discussing this law, which is potentially relatively acceptable, you continue to deal with something that is not appropriate to you as a minister in the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14520	Thank you very much. Is this how Minister Maras wants it? Just a moment but before that first Deputy Prime Minister Cacic I kindly ask you, you are in the Croatian Parliament to respect all MPs. Don't throw it away, you'll have the right to step forward as a representative of the government when I open the debate at any time and any representative will be able to answer any of his words, but here we are in the Parliament right now and I am asking you nicely to keep that in mind. Minister Maras, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14521	Thank you very much. I'd be happy to respond to Mr. Poppie's replica of public sector investment. You mentioned HEP and 2 billion kunas of public tenders. How many billions of kunas do you think were planned? It was done almost 100%, which will say that the planners in HEP or geniuses are guessing at the kuna what someone will offer them are incredibly capable people. Of 2 billion kunas, they guess exactly what prices will be offered by competition. It's amazing you should protect them and sell them to Americans, Japanese. Or maybe the situation is something different. Out of 2 billion kunas billion kunas, one bidder executes. Your public procurement, Mr. Drinker, is never gonna happen again in this government, because now you're looking a little bit at newspapers and journals about how procedures take place after your public procurement like this in HEP. He says two billion kunas, right in the eyelash, they've guessed exactly how many executions will be. Well, that really doesn't exist anywhere in the world. And as for investments in HEP 2 billion kuna last year planned, 3 billion kuna will be this year. It means 50% increase compared to the last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14522	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ word...... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The word is for counsel Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14523	I would ask you, given that the representatives of the HDZ on all committees have supported this law, on all committees, so our debate, and this Mr. First Vice President and Mr. Minister, can be confirmed by your co-workers who have been on board, has been extremely constructive and extremely correct. You've set out in one way that you don't respect this High House or respect these MPs. Now I'm just asking, sir, I can request a break...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14524	We have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. If you want a break, I'll give you a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14525	Give me a break of 10 minutes, please. I was going to say another sentence, but it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14526	But look, then everyone will be able to answer on behalf of the club and talk when it comes to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14527	Okay, give me a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14528	Ten minutes and you'll have five minutes to tell. ... scheduled for a break. [[Home is not saved.]] Does the representative of the HDZ Representatives Club want to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14530	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. I'm sorry there are no first vice presidents and most colleagues from the ruling coalition. So I tried to say in a few sentences and direct this debate in the direction in which the Croatian public wants us to and above all Croatian entrepreneurs. But since it didn't work out, I used a business opportunity and asked for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club. So, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament is certain that Croatian entrepreneurs, the Croatian public expects from this debate today at least to see something that this government is planning. And precisely on the trail of this, all representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community at the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, spoke positively on the committees about this law by making suggestions, remarks but in principle supporting the bill because simply every well-intentioned, normal man in this country will support any measure that will help Croatian businessmen and no one against such measure is. What do we experience at the beginning? Two representatives of the government don't speak in a single word about the laws, but we're told by balalaiks, balalaikas, who are not based on anything. They're fighting with us and they're fighting. Well, at least in the opening statement, no one had ever provoked or said anything about the law. The second thing is that everyone here had knowledge and behaviour for the sake of Croatia before the economic crisis in 2008 had a practically balanced budget. The government budget deficit was 0.8% and that's true. But if we're going back to 2008. We're not gonna achieve anything. And the logical thing is that today the MPs of the opposition will probably all talk about current macro-economic indicators and that's something that Mr. First Vice President, Mr. Secretary we just need to talk about here why? Because this law if you look at its essence doesn't bounce a lot of those laws that have been so far. Some things are improved inside that and according to the new circumstances in which Croatia is located because we ended negotiations eventually with some possibilities. And that's what we said in our discussions. So, not by any word denying this law that you've made. What we're experiencing today in the Parliament. So, in the expectation of a constructive debate between those who have proposed this law and us who are in opposition, we end up having some experience from these crisis years, we experience that you begin to insult us here for this pay phone and to tell the truth. Because look, if you Mr. Maras know that someone set up in HEP a billion-and-a-half kuna jobs, then it is your duty as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and as a citizen to report it to the competent institutions. But here to say it at the pay phone and get it into the media, into the wind, and tomorrow nothing happens is extremely irresponsible. But with a statement like that, you can laugh all you want, gentlemen. But he who laughs last laughs the cutest laugh! So, intent, my intervention on behalf of the club, Mr. Vice President, is that as much as possible we can courte this debate, as far as possible when it comes to the economy, then it's the only constructive debate if it's discussed with arguments. Any politicizing when discussing the economy is a disaster. Let's discuss the arguments. Everyone has their arguments, everyone has, can't have their numbers. We have the institutions that this state has established and they have published these figures and we are going to talk about them but with the ultimate goal of ending this debate with legislation that will help Croatian entrepreneurs. And let us also see where this law can meet obstacles because we have certain incentive measures and strong money available to Croatian entrepreneurs both through HBOR and through some other banks. However, because of the structure of the Croatian economy and the incentive measures simply could not be achieved and this is what we talked about on committees. And that's what we'd like to talk to you about today. However, you in your opening part have come totally unprepared as far as the law is concerned. You've told us again in the word "balalaika." Today, balalajkas do not need us or Croatian citizens here. And unlike those of us who are in opposition and you who were once in opposition, understand that you are no longer in opposition, that you are now ministers and that you have a certain responsibility for everything you have said and for everything you do. And I would ask Mr. Chairman that if it is possible to bring this debate down into some contexts, that with our discussion we simply send a message to the Croatian public that we are in the interest of having certain economic topics, so I think that it is high time that in Croatia and we can agree on some things, and we can only do so if we have an argument. If we attack each other without arguments, I think the Croatian public will laugh at you after this session. Now, however, only the first vice president and minister are laughing. But let them laugh, that's their problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14531	Okay. Like this. First, I fully agree with you that it is best that the debate is conducted on the basis of facts, so I invite everyone in this spirit to continue the debate. Secondly, it is not unusual for the parliament to discuss more strongly sometimes, as in other parliaments, the disqualification of a political opponent or rival in some ways. That's how it's been so far. That's probably how it's gonna go on. It is important that there are no personal insults I will not allow as chairman of this session. Third thing. We've been listening here, you're aware of that, Agent Schucker, that for eight years, there's been talk of Racan's government. Now that the HZD government has been mentioned for eight years, we won't mind that too much. And we'll try to have a discussion in that tone. I call on everyone, they'll all get a chance to make their views known. I hope that's how we bring the debate to an end in the best possible way. And the last good thing about it is that we've lifted the correction of the incorrect quote, because somebody would definitely answer to say it's impossible to talk ballads, because balalaika is a wire instrument. ... Yeah. [[You can't hear it.]] Okay. We're continuing the debate now. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? Do the committee's reporters want to see it? You can't, Minister. You can't, Deputy Prime Minister. I need to open a debate. Wait, let me run the session. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Now I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. You, as legislator, can come forward after the first debate. We need to hear the debate, and the first to discuss it came from the HNS Club and the distinguished representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14532	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honored First Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers with Deputys and Associates, Honored colleagues and colleagues. Here's to this huge dissatisfaction that hasn't talked enough about the law, I'm going to be talking about the law for 10 minutes now so HDZ representatives can get to know it. We are facing one of the key laws of this government that aims to create a competitive socially responsible economy and, of course, what is the most important jobs. That Croatia really needs this law best says that investments in the last 3 years have been reduced by as much as 28% and their share in GDP has been further reduced from 29% to 23%. The final picture of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy he spoke of and the first vice president, of course, gives our position on the competitiveness scale, which is another one of the legacy of the HDZ government. This government has set the creation of a favourable investment association as one of the key objectives and has taken strong steps in this direction to reverse the trend and turn Croatia into investors' preferred destination. In this respect, the Investment and Competitiveness Agency was established in the first step and the expansion of the activities of HAMAG which are now becoming HAMAG investment and therefore in a segment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, all to ensure that investors are largely removed from administrative and bureaucratic barriers, but also that all investment projects are monitored, hence, from the first initial investor inquiry to the final implementation of the project. But in order to really attract investors, it is necessary first and foremost to provide an attractive and stimulating investment environment and that is exactly what is defined by this law. In fact, it is more than certain that the existing investment incentive framework is not attractive enough for investors and that it has often happened for companies to choose another country by analysing the region. ... The measures we have had in Croatia so far with those in the environment are clear that stronger and greater incentives are necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, for example. one Slovakia or Serbia provide twice as much incentives on the same projects as Croatia, and that is something we really need to change urgently because without a change of incentives we cannot expect an increased investor interest. In this respect, this law provides for a whole series of new ones as well as a significant improvement of already existing measures. The incentives concern micro-entrepreneurs, tax incentives, customs incentives, incentives for job creation, incentives for workers, incentives for capital costs, incentives for labour-intense projects. This has already been the case today, so I think very important incentives for micro-entrepreneurs are already for investments of 50,000 euros. The reduction of this threshold allows for the availability of the use of measures to significantly increase the number of economic operators. This segment of the economy is extremely important because it is very dynamic and, within a very short period of time, of course, with quality incentives can create new business entities and new jobs. Tax incentives amounting to 50, 75 and 100% reduction in the prescribed profit tax rate depending on the level of investment, but what is extremely important about the number of newly opened jobs. Here, therefore, it is particularly important once again to highlight the possibility of achieving tax incentives and without job creation if modernising the technological processes of existing production lines or plants are carried out, which is significant for companies, especially from the processing industry that have sufficient numbers, often too many employees, and they need to modernise technology and production processes in order to preserve production and thus preserve natural jobs. It is of paramount importance that incentives for eligible costs of new jobs related to an investment project which is significantly increased under this law, but also linked to the unemployment rate in certain counties. Namely, the counties that have a higher unemployment rate will be able to use even greater incentives. So the maximum incentive for a new job opening in the county with up to 10% unemployed is 3,000 euros, while in the counties where the unemployment rate is between 20 and 30 percent and of course more, and these counties where unemployment is more than 30% we have as much as 4 in Croatia, a total boost of 9,000 euros for each new job opening can be achieved. This is certainly also strong support for regional development and the opening of opportunities for investors to come to the districts where unemployment is high. In addition to those incentives for employment, this law allows the holders of incentive measures and grants to support workers in new jobs related to the investment project. Supports are provided for general but also special improvement. According to the same system, therefore, the unemployment rate in the county is determined by the capital incentive to build new plants and buy new equipment up to a maximum of 500 000 euros where the average unemployment rate is between 10% and 20%, or a million euros where unemployment is above 20%. It is very important to point out that, for the first time, investment in tourism is coming under the auspices of this law, which will encourage projects that raise the quality of the tourist offer and thus will certainly contribute significantly to the development of Croatia's extremely important and very potent sector. The law also covered the promotion of development-innovation activities, business support activities, value-added services activities, and all to achieve as much investment as possible and in these very important areas. It may also be important here to stress that the above-mentioned amount of incentives can be achieved, i.e. it will be further increased in real projects of strategic activities as well as in research and development jobs, which specifically means that the company that opens the job and the job opens up in the county where unemployment is greater than 20% can achieve a boost for a new job and up to 13 000 and 500 euros. So it's really stimulative measures. I am now not going to list any further opportunities to achieve incentives for investors, but it is clear from all of this that these are extremely important measures that must be put into effect as soon as possible. What is essential in the operational implementation of this law is that the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness as well as HAMAG Investment, together with the county development agencies and local self-governments in which the investment project is being implemented, will form a common proactive ad hoc body for a particular investment project, etc. the investment project support team, and in order to provide the project holder with all the necessary professional assistance to be implemented in a timely and successful manner. In addition to perhaps one suggestion of the Ministry of Economy, these measures would be strongly promoted both in Croatia and abroad immediately after the adoption of the law. In particular, thanks to the complete lack of understanding of the need to create a favourable investment environment by the former HDZ government, while creating strong bureaucratic obstacles to Croatia today unfortunately has an image of a state that is not an investment friendlyly. One of the more recent examples, perhaps, is the Economic Forum, which was held a few months ago in Vienna, showed just the right state of affairs. In turn, all Austrian entrepreneurs who had opportunities or wanted to do something and invest in Croatia complained precisely that Croatia is not doing anything to attract investors and help them make investments faster and better. This is a very clear message that this government recognized, and the adoption of this law is one of the most significant moves towards strengthening the economy. And therefore, the HNS will, of course, support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14533	Thank you, too. We have a replica on this exhibit. The Honorable representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I just wanted to tell my colleague Martincevic that here's a thank you, but this is how you can at your HNS meetings when you meet your membership to speak, and we representatives at the Croatian Assembly have received the materials and believe us we are very well aware of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14535	Okay. The first Deputy Prime Minister and Economy Minister Radimir Cacic reported on the word. There's 10 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14536	Thank you very much. Here I have a very complimentary one of my pronouns, and now I'm saying to me, "Mrs. Tamara writes to me, now she gently says Messianic, Zen Buddhism." I'll repeat the complimentary deputy... By the characteristics of the show. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] He now says the gentle, the messianic, the Zen Buddhism, so the woman has every right, of course, just like Shuki used to say here. So it is clear that this law is important and good and that we must bring it, of course it is a shift in relation to what we should have had. We hope the next one will be even better. Of course we're short on competitiveness, we're not just going to solve competitiveness with that law. There's a whole spectrum of things that have a significant impact on it from catasters, garters, everything we all know well. These are processes that are the development of one society, this society of course is now at the level at which it is and this is a certain shift. It's true and we have information it's not news to us for me and for Minister Maras that the discussions on the committees were constructive that there was neither excessive demagogy nor politics simply this law is of that kind that hardly tolerates it and certainly doesn't need it. But on the other hand, as Vice-President of the Parliament said in the Parliament itself when the public is present when the cameras there the atmosphere is more explosive and everyone finds a reason to step away from the topic and open a political conflict. They'll use numbers in a way that sometimes the other side confuses a little bit. Let's just say I would never mention Velika Gorica as an example for a simple reason because there's an agreed highway, because there's a 3m-euro highway there for a mile and now it's at 12m euros per km. We've never had such a dramatic shift because it's been agreed to be over in a year, so it's been seven and we're not even halfway yet, which of course doesn't mean there won't be any failures to make this government. But let's just say that one example is just such an eclectic example of how it shouldn't be done, how it shouldn't be done. But it's not really the subject of this law. These are the general political topics, these are the things we can conflict on, these are the numbers we can mention, but this is the law on encouraging investment regardless of foreign or domestic. And in that sense, I don't think there's a particular need to assume that we're going to open up the deficit issues of the 8, 10th budget any, there's no special need to open up the subject of our failures because it's not going to contribute to this law. As far as I'm concerned, or let's just say HEP, I don't know who mentioned HEP, someone mentioned HEP, it wasn't a very bright example either, of course, depending on who's looking at it from which side. There will be more failures, and I'm not afraid. We know who we are and we know that almost all people are the same and will be the same and should be the same only the leadership changes, only the political summit changes a little bit of that administrative structure. That effort that we need to make changes will be measurable. You will criticise it both next year and next year until the 2015 elections, warn us, we will talk about good things, and it is of course for both of us to make this law of these good things as much as possible, so when you come to power to start on a better basis, no matter when it is. It's gonna happen one time. Many of us here were in position so he was in opposition, so in position, then in opposition, so in position, we are a small country as you know that total quantity of people in both politics and economy is not limited. So let's be nice to uphold this law because it's a good law. If we have something to add and I see that we had and what it says is obviously mildly said, some things are obvious that should be corrected, some are even formally wrong, so these amendments will of course be adopted and let's do something a little bit. I'm sorry now I have to go to the government if the government started half an hour ago, so Mrs. Tamara will communicate with you in a much more gentle way than I do with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14537	Okay. I am pleased to note that the opposition's representatives regret that you must leave. Regardless of the peaceable tone of the Deputy Prime Minister, we have three replicas reported. We won't be able to hear the answers to those replicas, but let's at least hear the replicas. First Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is the presentation of the First Vice-President of the Government on the Law on the Encouragement of Investments and the Promotion of the Investment Environment, which shows enough cynicism and looks back at everything that was before. However, I am not talking about how much funding is provided for the implementation of this law, since the position says the means and resources needed to implement the law are only 15 million kuna. If this law that speaks of will be encouraged and what is called amortizing property will certainly succeed just as the public private partnership in Varazdin County has succeeded, just as the Koprivnica County has succeeded when the school cost... It cost a virovitic 280 million kuna, and in Virovitica it cost 28 million kuna. If the bankruptcy manager came to the company... where there are 178 million kuna claims left from the public private partnership point of view that everything that has been built, both halls and schools, if this law will promote those who will through a public private partnership... investment and state money that will be invested then this law is certainly at the expense of Croatian entrepreneurs, not in order to improve their work, equipment, education, new investment, new inventions and patents, and presentation of their products and promotion of exports. Surely there is not enough capacity, there is not enough means to help entrepreneurs, given that they are not even mentioned, but what is saying is that it enables investment and aid in amortising assets is really the top of what should be suspected that this law will certainly be used for individuals who will not contribute to any development of economic and progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14539	Second replica, MP Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't answer for the cameras, and I don't want to confuse anyone. I may not even have a show in front of the cameras, and it may not be a stronger side, but I'm bound to say something. Mr. First Vice President said this is a shift for the better, and I'm asking where's the better place for a farmer, where's the village. And the first vice president says that they're all equal, but they're not equal because what the village has experienced and what circumstances the government and the ministry's move has made, it doesn't talk about equality. We witness every day the destruction of numerous family farms, and in this part of it there is a minister of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, with potential, certainly potential for 50 and more thousands of jobs. But in what situation did farmers find themselves in, they can no longer stand on their feet and are in no way equal with other citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14541	And the third replica, representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14542	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I'm sorry that Pippi left, so he got off to a nice start, relaxedly, and he called the lawyers with nicknames. ... /The noise in the hall./... What is it, so if he's Shuki for him, then he's Pippi for me too. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14543	Guys like this, I'm asking you nicely, five times today please, no throwing away. Look, when someone picks up, when someone's talking in the Parliament, without getting a word, they deserve a warning, so now I'm going to start sharing those warnings. Don't throw it away, let the man talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14544	And now our Pippi's gone, and he didn't say anything because he didn't have anything to say because there's no investment, as Minister Maras said, in the first quarter. He says because of what happened, I say because of what he is and what he will be. I think it's clear to everyone and to the citizens, this message is for the citizens. Radiir Cacic's only goal is to raise energy prices, which is to make citizens pay for investments that should come from public companies. So there are no private investments, everything, as always in the Radiir Cacic case, comes down to state investments, citizens should pay them through the collection of energy, and then, as in the 2000-2003 period, we will try to arrange for business with the state to be done by companies that are owned by Mr. Cacic. It's seen, we follow closely, and we'll see if it repeats itself now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14545	We're continuing the debate. In the name of the HDZ club, the distinguished representative, Domagoj Milosevic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14546	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Deputy Minister with Associates. First, I'm sorry that Mr. Chacic had to leave, so I guess I'm gonna have to talk like Clint Eastwood to an empty chair at some point during this exposure. Well, I personally wanted to begin by commending this law that I made yesterday on our Committee on Economy, but I must return to the beginning of today's debate, so I will first of all say that I absolutely disagree with Mr. Cacic's findings, first of all when it comes to the investment climate. So the investment climate in Croatia began to change significantly in 2010, resulting in a significant growth in foreign direct investment in 2011 compared to previous years of the crisis. I think we all understand when a crisis like this comes that a logical fall is both domestic and foreign investment. And as far as economic policy is concerned, I think the best way to say results is, and of course, I hope there can be no debate, and the results are next. In the second and third quarter of 2011, to remind you all, we had GDP growth and a decline in unemployment, and in the second quarter of 2012, I'm afraid the data are opposite. I don't think there's really anything to add, and if I wanted to be maligned, then I'd say if you weren't responsible for the downpour of competitiveness, then I don't know how you're responsible and for the stability of the... rating agency. But what I agree with Mr. Cacic completely, which is that there is really only order in the morgue. However, it should be assured that, as we know, it is logical that dead people cannot lie, and those who are alive are very rare and only if they have to enter the morgue. That's where we fully agree. I hear the Prime Minister used the same sentence in Germany. Maybe Germany isn't the best place to say that since there's a lot of living and there's order. So maybe it's different. I'll get back to the law. So I really did express my gratitude and I think we should agree that this is a step forward, that this law is important when we talk about encouraging investment and improving the investment environment. I especially have to say here, that's what I said on the board, I like Article 22. The article 22 briefly discusses support teams for investors. I will also remind you, this is what the past government began to do, so the HDZ government in 2011. I'm glad it's formalized and legally involved in this bill. I also commend the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness HAMAG Invest. I think that here, I said so, and on the board should separate the responsibility, clearly define the responsibility of both agencies and HAMAG investments that we do not confuse investors and to be sure of the final result, i.e. to know who the responsibility is. However, I think this whole article, which many transition countries have, should become a special law on speeding up investment of interest to the state. I won't read your articles, I'm sure you've all read them. We here on the right are this bill. But I'm going to say, I think it's a moment given the global crisis, or the European crisis that doesn't matter. No one actually knows the next development of events so as not to be rigid and to be defensive when it comes to foreign investors, domestic investors, without being too bureaucratic. So, I think it is, and this is stated in several articles clearly that no investor invests in advance to achieve loss or to fire people after employment. So I don't see why you need to insist on articles that determine the termination or elimination of privileges. Let us be reasonable, for example, or delay the application of these privileges. In any case, I suggest that we be more flexible when it comes to investors, and also that some of the articles, for example, speak about the return of bankruptcy benefits, I don't think that there's a place to be clear, so I don't know who will return after the bankruptcy is carried out and the privileges that have been granted. But, as I said, it's not the time, this time of crisis, it's not the time for a rigid and defensive attitude towards investors. I think it's time for potential investors to be flexible, to be aggressive in trying to attract both domestic and foreign investors. However, it is also clear here that it is already mentioned today, before we talk about new investments, we need to make sure that those who live or live and survive today. So I personally worked with both domestic and foreign investors last year, but we should also be aware given the deepening of the sadness of the crisis in Croatia in this year that we need to make sure, first of all, that the next year after joining the EU, Croatian entrepreneurs do not start looking for other places where to invest, where to hire people. Given the rise in competition, and the decline in our competitiveness, unfortunately, this could happen. And there's a need to take great care of that. In the past few months, I have spoken publicly about several of my friends who have taken families and left our country. I'm afraid that's a really scary piece of information. Secondly, what should also be warned in view of the deepening of the crisis in 2012 and the entry into the EU recently, I think we should discuss here in this assembly the danger of young and educated starting to leave our country more mass, and this also leads us to debate about our diaspora. So we're here in 2012. Instead of attracting and bringing the Croatian diaspora, emigration and offering opportunities for investment and economic prosperity, I fear we are going back to the beginning of the 20th century when Croatia was a place of economic emigration, and I think that for a country with our potential it is totally unacceptable. So, in fact, today's bill of law, I think it's logical that it leads us to a much more painful and much more complex debate when we talk about an investment and entrepreneurial environment in the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's why I have to talk about it in the next few minutes. In fact, our current law that you are proposing is only part of a very complex puzzle, and unfortunately it itself will not solve our problems. And the first problem, above all, is the anti-enterprise climate that is especially created in our society this year. And that is why I am also taking this opportunity here at this assembly to say that only Croatian entrepreneurs, therefore private entrepreneurs, are especially medium and small ones who will be opening new jobs in the coming years especially when they are announcing discharge in the public sector from the left. So let's change rhetoric and take care of those in this assembly, at least we can do it here and vote for the laws that will encourage it. We care about the position of Croatian entrepreneurs. Furthermore, continuous changes in the tax system and this is this year on several occasions done. Of course they're a big investor problem. On VAT level, this is the second largest VAT in the European Union. I won't even talk. By that, I was in Berlin last weekend. Believe me, unfortunately, at the height of the VAT and for the general tax press, we are also known in Germany where our prime minister is today. Third, retroactive tax on dividends. So first of all, it is no time to seriously encourage investment in our wish, and the opportunity is good, we are entering the European Union, introducing dividend taxes. And the retroactivity that I hope will fall in the Constitutional Court should not be spoken of. I ask you in particular those who sit in government and the closest co-workers of the minister when you write the laws and when you talk we put ourselves in the role and position of those who need to invest, which we are supposed to expect to invest in Croatia as well as how they look at the heads of Croatian entrepreneurs, of course on our country. So let's try a few times from that position and write laws and attract investment and support Croatian entrepreneurs to survive first and then grow and develop their jobs in Croatia and outside Croatia. Finally, it is not least important, of course, for bureaucratic procedures, or major bureaucratic obstacles, which are encountered by entrepreneurs from both domestic and foreign countries. I am personally sorry, I think it is wrong that the left government could not force, the political force could firstly continue in 2010 to launch a project of the Action Plan to remove obstacles to investors. I think it was a great project. There is no reason since we agreed that investments are particularly private above the policy of not doing so. Here, allow me just one more personal remark, which is therefore one of these very indicators where it should rise above the narrow political interest, which last year for the first time the HDZ Government organised together with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Employers' Association International Investment Forum. The echo was great. Many serious and world-renowned investors have not only come to this forum but also participated in the debates, and as far as I can see, many of those who were in Croatia at the invitation of the HDZ government last year are talking to the new Government today about major and important projects for this country. Here in the end let me read you just a piece of the ad from the last Economist that says why Georgia is different? It's an ad from the Georgian government that says, among other things, only a few details. Georgia is different because it has tripled its gross national product over the past 10 years. Or, say, last year, only the growth of Georgia's gross national product was 7%. Or let's just say, Georgia is different because it's positioned in the region, we know where Georgia is located as a central economy friendly to business and domestic and foreign entrepreneurs. I could read it to you now. However, what I want to say here clearly, which is that having insight into Georgia's geostrategic position and respecting its government's efforts I think our country has huge potentials, I think we should know them especially now that we are on the verge of joining the EU. There is no reason not to be more ambitious than we are, and that word of ambition is rarely heard in the Croatian Parliament and in our society. However, the decline in production that we record for months this year, the rise in energy prices on the other hand, the decline in consumption on the one hand, the increase in tax burden during 2012, the decline in GDP and the rise in unemployment, I fear, are not facts that say we are on the right track or that we will attract investors in the Republic of Croatia or stimulate and motivate Croatian entrepreneurs. In particular, here I stress the growth of unemployment because I believe that growth in unemployment, or perhaps it is better to talk about creating new jobs, is actually the ultimate and most important data of every economic policy, i.e. the key result. In the past 20 years, given the time we've lived in, it's probably the most important thing. So I think, by mentioning percentages, proselytes and the rest of you all know the figures, I think we should conclude this debate with the fact that it's crucial today that this is what we're discussing, but no law can, unfortunately, solve our problem of incompetence, our problem of relations with business, entrepreneurs and domestic and foreign affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14547	I thank Representative Milosevic, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ club. The first reaction to this exposure comes a little unexpectedly from the HDZ club. The replica was presented by the esteemed Vice-President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14548	Dear Mr. Vice President, I have actually reported to you about the fact that the distinguished representative Milosevic mentioned the FITCH agency and an incredible spin that was created in the Croatian public about it, so I think we need to be told here, and even more to the Croatian public who tried to convince the Barnum advert that it was something fantastic and something that would be useful to them and that it would be of great benefit to all of us. So, first of all, it has to be clear that it's one of the few agencies that deal with it, and when I saw the huge headlines that were, of course, promoting it then I thought we finally got 4 A+ nicknames or something, then when I looked at the texts and heard what I was boasting about, then I realized that it was the same grade, so BBB minus as Croatia has since 2001. The only thing that has changed is that another attribute has come stable with an explanation that there are good options, but that we need to see if that happens or not. So, it's very clear to say that it's an agency that estimates actually how we repay our debts. And we're paying back our debts, and that's why they've given us the same grade as they've given us in the last 11 years, which means absolutely nothing for an average citizen, doesn't mean that it's going to cut the prices of electricity, gas, gas, fuel, as we see it, it's going to rise dramatically all the time. And to make it more clear what BBB minus the exact same rating has Namibia, a country where half the population lives below the poverty line that is below 7 kuna on the day of income, a country that has an unemployment of more than 50% and a country where the average life span is 52 years. So if I can say something Latin since our prime minister often says sapienti watch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14549	Thank you. So you've been saying that Imibian grade for 11 years? Okay. The second replica is the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14550	Thank you. Here you have mentioned, with the support of this law, that as a negative example of the retroactive introduction of dividend taxes and the proposal means its retroactive application and that the government should try to understand how entrepreneurs think and from that point of view try to remove those obstacles to investment and to create new jobs. And with this, you put yourself in the role of entrepreneurs, and from this point on watch those disruptors of new investment and job creation. And there he would agree that the government should try to see things from that position. But I think the government should also try to see things from time to time from the position of Croatian citizens. Sometimes a man loses some standards and loses the real frames of the condition in which people are presently located. I think that the government should really try, the one who makes decisions, see things from the position of investors, but sometimes put himself in the position of the Croatian man and see how he lives and who are his disruptors today in general survival. One of the examples I would like to give when it comes to the tax press, and when it comes to citizens, it is a proposal to introduce a tax on property as a typical example where the Croatian government is not and is not placed in the position of the Croatian man and does not see what it will really mean to Croatian people if the events are actually introduced. What it's going to mean is, here's Mr. Cain occasionally mentioned to many who have grandfathers by villages and rural estates, they don't have cottages just at sea. These are properties that are worthless today, which will then have to be sold for invaluable because otherwise it will cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14551	Dear Representative Domagoj Milosevic will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14552	Yeah, well, I'm afraid you may not have followed me properly while I was talking. I mentioned workers, or employment and unemployment, in four places in my speech. So it's perfectly clear, and I've said it several times already, so it's been spent, especially in Croatia, the variant of the debate about how here they are now, on one side, entrepreneurs, on the other. Believe me, it has also been clear from personal experience in recent years of the crisis that at this point when the crisis is unfortunately deepening, although last year we began to emerge from the crisis, and this clearly shows statistics, that unemployment, or employment, is closely linked to the success of entrepreneurs and those who work today. So, if consumption falls, no one can produce more in the land where consumption falls. We know how dependent we are on the relatively small Croatian market, all of us as a society. So do we have to change? Yeah, we have to change. Is this the way of change? I don't think so. So, I don't think it's the way to change, and it's not going to bring us that benefit for anyone, not for the workers, not for the entrepreneurs, not for the whole society.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14553	Thank you. Now the word has been heard from the entrepreneurship and crafts minister, the respected Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. From what I understand, this is quite an affirmative debate about the law of the HDZ Club, I didn't hear it in the debate itself, but the support of the law was defined. If that's the case? Therefore, I also thank the clubs that have reported to HDZ and HNS because this is in some way a confirmation that the law is prepared in a way that will improve the investment environment and encourage investment and that certain measures and intentions of this government are recognised as moving forward in this area. I just have to look back at a few things because as Minister of Entrepreneurship, it's a little bit of a bother when I hear the anti-enterprise climate, and we listen to it all the time, interesting associations, and it's clear to me because when you have an interested association that's in the interest of something, so if the government has taken them a measure that they don't like, they won't praise it. But we must be aware that there are clear indicators of what an entrepreneurial climate is and whether positive trends in entrepreneurship are present in Croatia or not. And I'm going to tell you that in the first six months of this year, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs achieved a growth of 1.3% of income, 1.3%. We see the industry falling, some problems haven't been solved for years, shipbuilding, construction, Petrochemy, DINA etc. This has affected the fall of GDP in Croatia and we must say this here for the sake of Croatian citizens. Entrepreneurs go forward, achieve some growth, 13,000 more people are employed in entrepreneurship by FINA statistics for the first six months. So last year in the 6th month of 551 grand, this year 564 thousand, so that's also a positive figure. It would not be if the anti-enterprise climate were in operation in Croatia, it would not be if we did not disburse entrepreneurs 2% of the contribution to gross wages, it would not have been if we had not raised the rate of entry into the VAT system from 80 to 230 thousand kuna. It's because people work easier. And it is not true that there are no positive shifts in Croatia precisely in small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because the data speak exactly the opposite. Here's another piece of information. Income from sales abroad, exports of 2 billion more or 10% more than the previous year among small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. So we have really positive data in that segment. Unfortunately, I said because of the check, when you have in the shipbuilding income last year five times bigger than this year in the first six months, normally it will happen when DINA doesn't work normally that you will fail, when you have a crisis in Syria there is no income INA normally that you will achieve a fall but don't say that among small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that there is no entrepreneurial I would say impulse that there is an anti-enterprise climate present. We disbursed the economy of 3 billion kunas. One more thing. Do not underestimate the rating agencies that analyze what is happening in a country. "Finch" is one of the agencies that is respected not only by Croatia but also by America, England, Germany. All these economies have, in some ways, some repercussions that they get from these agencies. Well, I don't see why that wouldn't matter to us. To us it's extremely important this I would say a stable position for the future is a great progress for our country. It hasn't happened in the last four years. I don't know how many four or five years we've had that grade. On the other hand, yesterday, Prime Minister Milanovic in Germany receives recognition from Chancellor Merkel for what we do in Croatia. So don't give us any less credit than the great European economies do. Mrs. Merkel said yesterday that we are doing good things in Croatia and has given support to the Republic of Croatia especially in the context of the economic measures we are doing. And it's kind of recognized out there, and that's why agencies are giving us stable ratings compared to what we've been getting in the last few years. So some things change, some things happen. As for the first quarter and competitiveness, so, of course, the competitiveness and the assessment of the competitiveness that we got now a month ago that this was built on the basis of the previous year because all the talks are being conducted, all the research is going on at the beginning of the year. Well, that doesn't apply to the future, that applies to what's happened so far, so your HDZ colleague, Ivica Mudrinic, admitted it. So let's not in some way deceive people's competitiveness is what and the competitive table was based on 2011. I'm sure next year we'll have a better grade. And as for the change in the tax system, we will go one step further for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Next year there are further redundancies because we want a very competitive Croatian economy, we want these positive trends in entrepreneurship to start and continue and we want to have more I would say both jobs and growth in the sector. And as for specifically here's colleague Milinkovic here said there was nothing for agriculture. There is, so it wouldn't be. So agriculture also belongs to the processing activity. You can produce food to process certain products, etc. And on that basis, you can gain encouragement. For the food industry, the processing industry is provided for incentives and can be achieved, and for what you mean by agriculture, what is exclusively for farmers is achieved in another ministry. So one part of what is particularly important to us is the production of food, and we're going to work on it to improve it in the coming years. What I still have to mention is the planned funds, someone said 15 million kunas were planned this year. Of course, when the law is applied and the right to encourage is realized a year after you hire people, you make an investment. Well, you won't give someone to their mothers a million euros, and he'll tell you I'll open 50 jobs. So, of course, that the funds could not be planned now but would be planned for a year in the 2013 budget, 2014, and when we join the EU, thank God we will be able to use EU funds for regional support and this will be even more important I would say incentives for those who want to invest in Croatia. and that is why we used to be less competitive than countries that are already EU members like Slovakia, the Czech Republic and so on. So all that we're doing, and I'm glad here at the end again that it looks like we're going to get the support of the vast majority of MPs in this House for this law because it's showing the intensity to expand the user base, to increase support. We have to say that we have increased to 9,000 euros, and in the case of God, if someone opens up a factory that will have 500 new jobs, it can still get to these 9,000 100% means 18 thousand euros if it is in a less developed part of Croatia. These are important support, these are the support that Croatia is hosting I would say side by side to all the countries that can compare with us, where investors will seek the possibility that when we enter the European Union, they place their investments, with the advantages that Croatia has, the position, I would say very educated people and everything that opens up as a possibility as of next year from July 1st. I am very optimistic about the application of this law and the development of the situation in Croatia. Thank you very much for your support, and I look forward to the debate and the next clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14555	Thank you. Now, here's the deal. We have 10 replicas reported. Since you've been reporting more or less at the same time, I'm going to read all 10 recorded names. If we've missed someone to record, I'm asking them to come forward, it's not intentional, so there won't be any misunderstandings. So the replica was reported by MPs Domagoj Milosevic, Ivan Šuker, Martina Dalic, Gordan Jandroković, Davor Stier, Branko Bačić, Zoran Vinković, Đuro Popijač, Dragutin Lesar and Đurđica Sumrak. Stjepan Milinkovic and Ante Babic, write it down. Here's Vinkovic giving up. Okay, now we know more or less the course of further discussion. Domagoj Milosevic came forward first, so I give him my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14556	Thank you, Chairman. I always agree with my opinion, so then I think it's clear, and not just me and more HDZ colleagues have commended and then commendation means also support for this bill. I also understand the emotions of Mr. Minister Maras, emotions when we talk about entrepreneurship. However, we do not talk to the same entrepreneurs in the same country. When I also talk to my colleagues about entrepreneurs and those interested associations whose interest is at the moment, especially when we are talking about medium and small survival, and they are talking about the best figures that you have not presented about the situation in Croatian entrepreneurship, then obviously there are some differences. I think you'll find it difficult to defend the the thesis that a pro-entrepreneurship measure is a dividend tax and a retroactive charge, which led obviously to the position of those who invested and did not pay the profit to pay the profits afterwards. That's brilliant. So you're going to say that it's an entrepreneurial measure to say, look, you were not going to say stupid, but I'm going to say you weren't planning well that the next government was going to introduce a dividend tax so you didn't pay in time, so we're going to get you back five years on that reduced tax. If it is something that is good for entrepreneurs and for the entrepreneurial climate outside this Croatian state, then I am in shock. We talked about VAT more than half a year ago and we clearly told you that at the moment of the crisis VAT growth will not only bring down consumption, and Croatia is unfortunately 2012 and GDP is dominantly dependent on consumption because we are a productive export-oriented country and it will take 10 to 20 years for this change. And we clearly told you what will happen when you raise the VAT, at the moment the demand falls then Croatian entrepreneurs will take part of that VAT at the expense of their margins and the cost of their benefits. It is intended to be invested and employed by people. I don't think they're pro-entrepreneurship measures. And since you're already pulling my tongue...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14557	No, no, easy. We have to stick to time. Your time is up. Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14558	Thank you very much. Mr. Milosevic, we don't have to talk to the same entrepreneurs to make something true. You need to look at the data, you need to look at the statistics that Finna is doing, and then you'll see that what you're saying is that we're detiming people to invest with these measures is not true because in the first half of the year over 300 million kunas are invested, so I'm only talking about small and medium entrepreneurship, 9 billion and 500 million kunas. So it didn't detimize what you're saying, it stimulated them by freeing them from profit tax if they reinvested their money. And you caught on to one measure that I would say may have caused controversy with the Croatian Employers' Association, but you did not mention that a whole other series of measures were commended, from fiscal consolidation to new credit lines in HBOR, until we reduced the gross wage cost, to the fact that I would still say that discharge would go tax. It's all also said by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, rather than taking an example that tells us that we want to tax more when the profits are paid than when it's invested. Well, that's the legitimate political decision of this government, and it will ultimately result in people investing more and less profiting from their companies. I agree that it can cause controversy, especially with those who are affected. It's a few. Unfortunately, not many profited. We see how the tax on profits has fallen for the last four, five, six years, but we want people to invest and that's why we've brought such a measure. And generally I say we should talk to everyone, but we need to stick to the data...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14559	Thank you very much. Time's up. Second replica, Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14560	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll say something here about it, I've already said that on behalf of the club, the HDZ club will support this law, but we can't support what Mr. Maras is saying, it has nothing to do with what it says here in the law and it's a fact and it's very strange that a minister after such a debate of the opposition club reacts as he does. It's just funny, politically blind, but well, everyone has their own. Do you, Mr. Maras, really think people are investing because you're going to release them from this profit tax? So people invest because they see some kind of business perspective, which they see they're going to do, and this is just something they're going to get one way or another. And you can't say that someone doesn't invest to get a profit, and if you bring him a dividend tax and retroactively, you punish him. And you can't say it doesn't go like anti-enterprise activity and spreading the negative climate. You did the same thing in 2000, you lifted the protection interest, and then you put out your own formula for calculating some security interest coefficients, and you know what the result is, a series of court disputes that the state lost and paid over a few hundred million backs to the people they paid, and they didn't have to pay. And one more thing, when you speak as a minister, then you should stick to the fact, but you have one practice in this government that you like to throw some firms in the mud to start talking about their privatisation. What's the problem with Petrokemia? You wanted to send her into bankruptcy in 2002, this government turned claims on Petrokemia into a holding stake, and if I'm not mistaken, Petrochemy had a profit a year ago, but you're pointing her out today as something that's wrong. You obviously have some intention of privatizing. And finally, Mr. Maras, you can't say that an increase in VAT of 8.7% is not something you've put on the back of Croatian citizens. And all of these measures of yours, you pay very bloodyly to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14561	Thank you. Minister Maras will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14562	Well, Mr. Shuker, what's the problem with Petrokemia? I should ask you. However, come on, you haven't been a minister in the last year, but before that, strange things have happened that a company that has a market, which has technology, which exports several billion kunas, have been in trouble because of relations and with another company that is also owned by the state. But there we talked a lot about both INA and the price of gas and gas business, on the committees, unfortunately, where you didn't read what you voted on. But I could ask you why such a successful industry failed. Here, answer me. You were a member of the government when it happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14563	Ministers like this, MPs ask questions to government members, and we do not yet have in the Rules of Procedure to ask questions to MPs. Okay. That's one newspaper. That's what we'd have to introduce. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14564	Thank you very much. Well, as you said, there are no rules for ministers to ask MPs, but the minister himself wondered why they were constantly talking about the anti-enterprise climate, so I wanted to explain to you in fact why they were spoken not only by representatives but especially by those who are concerned with the anti-enterprise climate and what they mean by that. A few examples. Thus, the tax on dividends is already mentioned here, and what is different than the anti-enterprise climate if it is determined to tax the contribution from taking the risk, and the contribution from risk-freeness is not taxable. I don't think there's any way we should bring in the interest tax. What began to be mentioned could only still be an additional incentive for the economy to continue to fall. But that's what he ordered the dividend tax. If you take the risk, if you enter an entrepreneurial enterprise, then you will pay for the pores. If you keep the money in the bank then you will not, and you will pay it in particular if you are a Croatian entrepreneur because those who are resident in the European Union will not pay it. Well, about that. And what's different than encouraging an anti-entrepreneurship climate when ministers repeatedly say no one in this country pays taxes. The topic was introduced so that a political demagogue rhetoric could be held in this House to discuss what previous HDZ ministers were doing or this or that, so that people could get their eyes dirty. But in this country, there is a large majority, 98 and a half percent of entrepreneurs who pay taxes neatly Who says who has the right to call us publicly that we don't? [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]] That's how you create an anti-enterprise climate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14565	Thank you. Here's the answer from Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14566	Yeah, you're right. Most entrepreneurs work fairly and pay taxes, but the same entrepreneurs warned us. He says, some pay, a large majority of pay, but some don't pay. And that's why we had to do it, and that's one of the things that the public does, but also entrepreneurs welcome the honest ones who pay taxes to publish and demystify who pays and who doesn't pay the tax. And then don't say that measure has no results. In a month, nearly 100 million kunas were charged from those who did not pay and who were on the list. So we can't have double standards, we'll let some of them not pay, and the vast majority will pay neatly and should pay because it's kind of creating better conditions for them to work and to develop society and it's so normal everywhere in the world. But we can't make the difference between one who obviously shouldn't have been asked for years to pay taxes and others who will pay neatly to every last kuna tax and in some ways wear it I would say this society. One hundred million kunas in only a month. So don't tell me that's not a certain result. And as far as dividends are concerned, it's the political decision of this government. Any government can decide what her priority is. It was a priority in the past for a large Croatian dairy company to be sold for 2 billion kuna, without its owner paying even taxes. It's the same legitimate political decision of the former government. So that's how it is. You have the right to earn 2 billion kuna from capital, but you will not pay anything. The one who works or the one who works on me would say a supermarket's cashier's cashier will pay 800 kuna every month for his 2700 kuna. And that's how it is. That was the decision. Not anymore. If you're going to make a living selling and I'm talking about big money, because there's a line we've set for which you don't pay taxes. But if you're going to make a lot of money, you've got a little something to pay back to society. [[Invader Batinić: Minister's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14567	Thank you. Before we move on to the next line, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Next replica of my colleague Gordan Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I listened very carefully to Minister Maras, and I would invite him to be a little more objective. All that's bad in the first six months is the legacy of HDZ, all that's good is the result of the work of the new government. It's just not possible. HDZ has completed its negotiations. So all the good that goes on with these negotiations, all about the functioning of the state is the result, let's be objective. You're talking about growing exports of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs by 2 billion if I'm not mistaken. So don't say it's the result of your measures. It's the first six months you haven't had any measures. So it couldn't have been reflected in the results of their work, so please and it's a practice that you have in general in the new government that you're trying to show everything that's left after the country's management by HDZ that it's bad, and everything new is happening as if it's good. It's just not right and it's not fair. The second thing I noticed was that you mentioned a visit by the Prime Minister to Germany and a conversation with Chancellor Merkel. Well, those who know how to read diplomatic speech are not particularly happy with what could be heard there, because we expected Germany to ratify the agreement by the end of this year. Then it was more difficult to ratify him in the first three months of next year, and yesterday we hear the German government president say he will wait for the first monitoring report in 10 months, but now the second monitoring report in the spring. So let us be aware that Germany will not ratify our EU accession treaty until 4-5 months. So Germany will be among the last countries to ratify the agreement. That's not a good message. She did tell the prime minister to continue with the reforms, we encourage you, but that things are as good as you want to show them believe that Germany would ratify this agreement by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14569	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14570	I'm just like you followed it in the media and the fact is that Germany will ratify the Croatian contract. So she's going to ratify and that's what Mrs. Merkel said very clearly. I don't know why you measure on days whether it's more successful or not. It is important that all countries, all 27 and Croatia join the EU. And the messages were very clear. So direct support for reforms in Croatia Germany did not give I would say for many years and thank God it would be that way... And look, I didn't notice it when visits over the past years occurred that in any word she mentioned reforms in the economic sense, that is, in the economy, in rationalisation, fiscal stabilisation, which is particularly important given the situation in which the EU zone is located. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] So you can't be happy if I said you followed closely what Mrs. Merkel was saying yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14571	Thank you. Next replica, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Minister Maras a year ago, Chancellor Merkel was in Croatia, and in the same words she praised the fiscal responsibility of the Croatian government, but not only because of such a statement from the then opposition ranks and some academics raised huge criticism that it was an intervention in the pre-election campaign, that it was a support to the friendly sister HDZ and even one professor from the Faculty of Political Sciences was independent to God, but here this government has proposed him as ambassador to Rome, but he is independent of course, which is why he blocked the proposal to give the doctorate Honoris causa to Chancellor Merkel, whom you so much praise today. So when we talk about these messages, of course it's good that the Chancellor said that Croatia has a responsible fiscal policy, but then let's say everything. She said the same thing a year ago, and the difference is that today we welcome everything that is good for Croatia regardless of what we are in opposition, and that the opposition then criticised and blocked it and did not take care of what is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Now, for 29 more seconds, you've talked about some improvements in the profits of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We were together in Samobor, you were visiting and it's good to come to Samobor, but you've probably heard there and from the crafts chamber these first six months close turns small, middle entrepreneurs also have great complications. So it's a real life. So we also support some measures that can help, but then we tell the truth and we tell everything. It's not a good situation. We should work together to make things better.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14573	Thank you. Next line, Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In his statement, Minister Maras said that the decline in economic activity, the decline in GDP, the decline in consumption was the result of an increase in energy prices and wanted to say that the government could not have had much influence because it was the result of international circumstances, oil prices on the Mediterranean market. That's partly true. However, what the government has done, and what has contributed to the decline of GDP, the fall in economic activity we have already heard, is an increase in VAT, it is a retroactive taxation of dividends, etc. However, the decline in GDP, the fall in economic activity, is largely due to the decline in investment that we are talking about today and in this law. In fact, in February, the first vice president said he would resign unless an investment tsunami hit Croatia by September. There's nothing out of tsunamis, but there's no investment business that Korčula would tell me, there's no investment. That was February. At the end of April of the month, a message was sent from the government that the first big investment bids of 13.5 billion go in May, according to Finance Minister Linic and the first shovels already in June. It was literally transferred from the government meeting on April 27th. But how will investment be when you stop them yourself? For example, in my county the project Kupari has been stopped, the project of construction of the County Waste Management Centre has been halted, that is, in the first 8 months the construction of the highway towards Ploča has been stopped, and has stopped since the construction of the port in Veli Luka, the construction of the Pelješki bridge has been stopped. What is happening today with the Pelješki Bridge is farsički that it is once again going into the production of the Environmental Impact Study, which was made in 2007, to talk again about the study that was made for the Pelješki Bridge in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14575	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14576	Therefore, one of the most important reasons for the fall in economic activity is the suspension, i.e. the absence of any investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14577	Thank you. Next line, Djuro Poppie. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14578	Mr. Vice President, three shorts. So let's go back to what my colleague Dalic was saying. So it is true that one member of the government in this House said that no one in this Croatia pays taxes. Secondly, you're talking about how you managed to charge 100 million kunas of some of those tax debts from before. You don't or you don't want to say how many new tax debts are recorded. That's what we'll see when you publish a new list. Furthermore, it's actually shocking that you as Minister of One Part of the Economy say that everything that falls in this country is normal, which is GDP, it's investment, it's industrial production, it's a growth of unemployment, and how is it now normal? Well, it's not normal for you to have a drop in industrial production in all these companies that you've been saying. Why is it normal for Petrochemy to have a loss this year, and last year she got $140 million? That's not normal. And also why wasn't there a normal and last year's increase, though treasure, the GDP? It wasn't normal at the time, and then here you'd be disembarking yourself, of course, from the fact that we still managed to start a domestic economy. And today it's all normal for you to see all the negative indicators. So it was from the minister who was in charge of one part of the economy that was really not to be expected. And to add to this list of constitutional projects, the construction of the highways to Bjelovar, Koprivnica and Križevci has been stopped, the building of the school home in Bjelovar, the construction of the railway track between Gradec and Križevci has been stopped, so you have stopped all the completed projects. So which investments are you talking about after all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14579	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Minister Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14580	Thank you very much. I'm sorry that the former economy minister doesn't know that last year we ended up with a minus, 0.2, it's a little strange that you didn't see that data. But, well, that's when you deal with the economy and you don't know how long it ended at the end of the year. As the gentleman said, smart enough. And as for the investments you mentioned this to the Križevci I can tell you here I was just talking to Minister Hajdas Doncic the other day that the track will be built by EU funds. The project is agreed, designed and will be completed by 2015. As far as the Peljega Bridge is concerned, here's a warning to me thanks to my colleague Marelic that the construction of 2010 has been stopped. Well, we're not the government that's going to open the Peles Bridge five times without having a kuna planned in the budget. And that's basically what I'd say is an indicator of how it was done. You open five times, you don't even have a kuna planned in the budget to build, and now I'm talking about what's wrong, five times the construction site opened up, and in the end now that we're trying to build that bridge with EU funds, I hope we get your support, and I'm sure we'll finally make the bridge and all these stories will be groundless. But we won't agree to open a five-time construction site for nothing. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14581	Thank you. The next replica of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14582	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I would briefly refer to what you were saying as a major shift you mentioned credit rating to the Republic of Croatia. By the way, I will personally support this law as a law of good intentions, as regards implementation when we put on a pile statements by the entrepreneurs themselves why it is harder to invest in Croatia I have no time to do so. I agree with you that the issue of stabilising or improving the credit rating at this point for Croatia was a good move. But one of those agencies, and I hope you don't quote me like a prime minister after this replica of mine again when I'm talking about it. The credit agency protects not only the interests of states that assess continued credit ratings, it primarily protects the financial interests of creditors. Since Croatia has cracked the planned international financial market debt quota this year, they care that we stay alive, that we can service our obligations because if our rating was down, we would be in the category... could not get to the capital and pay back their old debts. And that was the financial interest that led the credit agency to the fact that we still need a little blood left to serve our obligations. Therefore, when we talk about credit ratings, it is often not the result of real economic movements at a given moment, but also of these financial interests where we are in charge and we have paid as Croatia a high price for stabilising credit ratings and losing jobs, by falling for purchasing power and falling goods in retail trade. That's what Mrs. Merkel praises us for being on a difficult diet on water.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14583	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14584	Mr. Lesar like this in principle when a man listens to what you said he might and agree if he did not consider one other thing, and that is that some larger countries where he was placed a lot more money than in Croatia have lost credit ratings. So it's not exactly like that, when you borrow money, when you place bonds with them you can also trade depending on the credit rating that time less or more. So the credit rating paints I would say the state's potential to service its particular debts, to protect investors whether they are worth investing in at all in Croatia, whether in a year there will be a situation such as in Greece. So I would not agree that it is exclusively their interest or that I would not agree at all to protect the placement on our market, since it is, say, ten times less than it is Greek. Well, no one there protects either Spanish or Italian, etc. It is a question of faith in what the Government in Croatia is doing and what Croatia will look like in a year, two or three days. Well, you saw the question of Italy, how fast the rating was changing from negative to positive, just because the economy hasn't changed, the debt hasn't increased, the companies aren't worse, just based on what the government is doing and what moves it's making. And that's why it doesn't matter what you said about someone protecting their interest by giving us a better rating. No, he protects the interest of potential investors in Croatia and says it is worth investing in Croatia because trends are not negative regardless of what the rating is relatively bad but I am convinced that we will raise that rating in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14585	Thank you, too. The next replica of Đurjica twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14586	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maras, here it is in your first part of the exhibition, and through now you have boasted of your merits through this part of the month that you have done everything fantastic and there is Mr. Milanović, the prime minister, and there everyone has praised him. This law, as said, will support the HDZ club. And why is that? It is precisely because here is the former government that also has ministers of the former and the economy and finance and foreign ministers and vice-presidents who have been very together with the former prime minister that today, when Mr Milanovic comes, she could say that you will join the EU. On November 20th 2010, he was brought to this Croatian Parliament with 81 votes for and 41 against the Law on fiscal responsibility, you spat on him here in the Croatian Parliament and that is exactly the basis for economic recovery measures. You say 100 million kunas of tax are charged, I'm interested in Mr. Maras whether Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister was ashamed here when it comes to that, because he and his firm have remained in debt to 67 million kuna. It's been years since '95. By 2004, imagine that debt had gone out of date. That's embarrassing for a first vice president, and you call the former government, and I'll tell you the rest later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14587	Thank you very much. We don't have an answer. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14588	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maras, you said entrepreneurship is moving forward. Well, God bless God and you mentioned some information about the number of employees, but despite these numbers, unemployment is unfortunately growing. You also said that thanks to this rate of 2%, therefore the reduction of contributions, but I am obliged to warn in this place that due to this loss in health care is growing, unfortunately. But I'm glad you brought up agriculture. For the first time in this assembly, someone thought of agriculture because whenever I mention agriculture, everyone looks at it in wonder as if it were a forbidden topic. You said you'd be given support for food production, and I'm asking you why because farmers are supposed to be able to win at a second position of support. So I'm asking how much funds are provided for the elemental drought from the drought. And the OPG are also in their own way certain entrepreneurs, but every day one part of them collapses, the production of milk has fallen. So in any case, I believe that these measures have cut off one branch, a green branch that could give so much, and unfortunately now farmers are on their knees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14589	Thank you very much. We had an injury... Comrade Vinkovic, you have announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're giving up, thank you. We don't have a reply to the replica. Next replica, Ante Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14590	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said that Chancellor Angela Merkel commended this government, and I'm glad for that, but she said "sie solten sparren und mehr investeren", you need to save and invest more, but don't save on retroactive tax and don't save on extra tax dividends. Moreover, it is important not to be dependent on the speculation of international financial markets, she said. And there's something else I want to tell you about what you were talking about. In a civilized world, data compares quarter to quarter, past and present year. The fact is that even in this year, this quarter fell 2.1%, and in the same quarter last year was growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14591	Thank you. We don't have an answer. This is what we've exhausted the list of replicas. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, deputies, assistants, respected colleagues and colleagues. Usually when we're passing a new law, it's okay to ask ourselves what and how much better it is than the law we have, what with the new law we get. If we asked the minister today if any potential investor, entrepreneur, whether domestic or foreign to come to Croatia today and ask if I could invest, you could probably tell him that. So we have existing laws that make certain investments possible today. We're doing this law again today, and I'd say one new foundation of a house and we've got a hell of a lot of these foundations, but it looks like we can't live in any house, we haven't made a roof yet. We need to separate ourselves from the investment of domestic entrepreneurs and the investment of foreign entrepreneurs, i.e. foreign investors. The first Deputy Prime Minister obviously advocates foreign investment, and as far as we hear Minister Maras advocates domestic investment and investment by domestic entrepreneurs and craftsmen. These investments certainly differ greatly. If any of our entrepreneurs or craftsmen came today to ask for a potential incentive he would get it if he meets the conditions. These conditions and these criteria are set very high, which just means that a little bit of a craftsman and entrepreneur today can even run for any incentive from the state. As for foreign investors, they can come, they come, they are questioned, however, there is a particular problem in the analysis of their business structure, that is, their business, their bonuses, their projects, etc. I really don't want to do another year if we're doing an analysis of what this law that we're making today has brought us, so let me say, it's brought us 800 million euros of foreign investment that we already have in the plan of a certain Plomin C thermal power plant. So, is this new law about these and such investments, but I wouldn't want to be sure ministers as a result of this law. With the operational plan of encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises in the past year, we allocated a total of 5400 support of around 200 million kuna. Among other things, we shared support to strengthen competitiveness, entrepreneurship of young people, beginners, women etc. Since 2009, support has been provided to exporters for new markets in order to foster competitiveness and internationalisation of the Republic of Croatia's economy. For many years now, we've been thinking about how to promote competitiveness and how to do it. We realized that being competitive on a global market that we players are very important and we are already doing it in continuity. Five months ago, we said we needed an Investment and Competitiveness Agency, so we started it. The Agency's activity is a systematic and operational implementation of policies and measures to increase and the same competitiveness of the Croatian economy, with particular emphasis on encouraging investment by legal persons, and one of the activities in this activity is also the implementation of a proactive approach to fostering investments in line with the Investment Encouragement Strategy. Of course, we don't have a strategy to boost investment, and that's exactly where I see the problem. Entrepreneurship is a culture of life. We still don't have a culture of entrepreneurship in Croatia, because I've been working on a case, I should have answered the question whether an entrepreneur is born or becomes an entrepreneur. So, among other things, I did a survey with children from kindergarten to high school and only five respondents answered that they would be entrepreneurs. Because he sees something better in entrepreneurship. Yesterday, we passed the Speed Company Act, so-called limited liability companies with 10 kuna. Now with this Investment Encouragement Act, we say that if this investment is not re-valored, it is not worth it that whoever got it will have to return that investment. Let's try to sort out a situation. An entrepreneur who has been on the market for many years and who has certain problems can't run for incentives, but can run for the entrepreneur who opened the company for 10 kuna. He's got a good business plan, he's got a good idea, he's running for a competitiveness-enhancing project and he's getting some incentive funding. After three or four years, his idea is not sold quality enough on the market. He's not making a satisfactory profit, he's getting insolvent, he's inequitable. By law, he must declare bankruptcy. Then what? He's got to return all the incentivizing funds along with the corresponding tight interest. The question is, where is it coming from? It's another open space where I think we'd certainly have to take care of. I agree that investments are needed, and I agree that we have to be competitive and that's definitely what we have to set ourselves up in the future. However, in Croatia we have so many examples where we could be competitive, where our production was diversified. So we were recognized on the world market, but we let these companies go and let them sink. The freshest example is also, unfortunately, the Istrian Puris, which is from a few days ago, whose 305 employees are at the Employment Office because we allowed one person to make an anti-zoonite shop at one point without thinking about what the consequences will be. What do you think of the 305 workers who ended up at the Institute, of just the one company that will decide to just get a job, open up their own private company, make a good business plan and start some new investments. We have mentioned several times where we are related to competitiveness in 81 of the 144 countries of the world and since 2008. We keep falling by recording growth from 2006 to 2008. According to the opinions on globalisation, we are 56 places out of 59 countries, which certainly does not paint Croatia's readiness for any changes. Of the 20 factors of competitiveness, we have improved in productivity, efficiency, technological infrastructure, and have deteriorated in the labour market, foreign investment and unemployment. As for the indicator, we're much, much weaker. But it's interesting that in this kind of analysis, we get a positive assessment at the speed of company registration. We were talking about something else yesterday. When the European Commission and the members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce negotiated and tried to determine which indicators of non-investment of foreign capital on our Croatian market detected several problems. Public procurement, non-discipline of payments, parafiscal duties, customs and customs systems, public administrations, i.e. bureaucracy, tax uncertainty, availability and capital price. All of this and all of this we've been hearing about today on concrete examples. Every entrepreneur, foreign entrepreneur who comes to us in Croatia invests his capital and is fundamentally his, anyone who invests his capital he wants for his capital a certain return and it is so-called. the entrepreneurship climate, i.e. the environment and conditions in which a particular entrepreneur will invest his capital. And anyone who invests and invests wants above the average profit rate. In order to gain above the average profit rate, it must pay as low as possible, i.e. to give employees as little pay as possible. It must have as cheap a municipal and communication infrastructure as possible, it must have as low ecological standards as possible, etc. These are just some of the parameters that the foreign investor is estimating, and it's doing all that analysis on them and looking at what are the advantages and what are the disadvantages of the environment in which it enters with its capital. This law should be passed, but it should also be considered in the long term, which just means that we have to and we still have a lot of work to do in order to meet all these parameters that both foreign and domestic investors are asking us to adopt. And just for the end, I was offered by the minister before he said every government has its priority. That's right. To some government, it was a priority to sell milk for one kuna, to some government to sell insurance companies, roads, banks for not knowing how many kunas. But we will all agree in general that all governments should first be a domestic man, a domestic investor. So a man who is there, who will be able to create a new additional value because that domestic man will certainly create this new additional value for himself, and for society in a completely different way with completely different criteria, with a completely different mentality than a foreign investor will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14593	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Tyrelli, you have wondered very well why foreign investors and what investments they are. You were right to ask yourself this, because here five months ago, Mr. First Prime Minister, Mr. Cacic, has set up his vision of the projects that should be. It's Zagreb on the Sava. It is one of the most ambitious that the first Deputy Prime Minister has announced in the past five months, and then the construction of a dam and hydropower on the Sava River, then the new Sava-Sava channel, and the hanging roads on the Sava and the new government building on the riverbank. In all, he calculated that it would cost 1 billion and 200 million kuna. That is, fellow Tyrelli, all the old projects that have been in the drawer for 20 to 40 years, and of course those who have thought about it have always been seen in some pre-election campaigns as absolutely invaluable. Mr. Cacic, of course, had his own construction, or façade, and all of this would somehow make sense if it could trigger the economy, and all of these projects are in reality building. So now people are very afraid and wondering what construction firms are meant for, is this law really going to take care of who gets it? That it won't be one of the five KONING daughters again. So then the new government, here's Mr. Minister here, is now waiting for it to pull out these grand projects, and until then what the government did, the former government of Mrs. Kosor and the projects, live on them and collect points on them outside. That's where foreign investors want to invest, that's where they want to invest. It's Plomin, it's an airport of course. The new government only signed a contract prepared by the former government two years ago, so the reconstructions and support of the Luka Rijeka, the restoration of the railway railroad, the Križevci, are only a problem. Will this law please construction firms primarily people in Croatia fear that they are firms
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14595	Time. Thank you. We have a colleague's response to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14596	... [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14597	Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14598	What I would like is for sure that the Ministry and the economy and entrepreneurship and small and medium craftsmanship and all the ministries that we have at the time of the award of any incentive and call any competition are thinking exclusively about how much additional value for society will be, how much people will be employed in a particular project, how many new jobs we will open and how much good we will do for all those involved in this project, and how much for the community. And I think that this should be a fundamental task for all those involved in all projects, from local self-government to county, to the ministry, to investors, and that only by working together and setting certain criteria can we ultimately have good, or quality satisfactory results.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14599	Thank you. We continue, on behalf of the Association of Independent Representatives Ivan Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14600	Mr. Vice President, Ministers and colleagues and colleagues. I speak on behalf of the club of independent MPs who do not opt for either the left or the right option conditionally, but we will always support those proposals that we judge to lead the way out of our many crises. Clearly in this regard, we will decide after discussing our relationship with today's session of the Parliament, which is a question of investing in Croatia. Of course that's very important, but I'm afraid that we're dealing with the individual problems that life imposes on us, and we're not solving structural problems, and without solving these structural problems, I'm afraid that individual solutions will not lead us to a crisis. In the opinion of many, the paradigm we have endured and formed state and society has been exhausted, which is the paradigm of that framework of liberal capitalism. The world is thinking about a new paradigm, and I think the same thing is necessary in Croatia to think about this new paradigm that is just in sight, which is needed. A new swing in both the economy and the social life of people today. This new paradigm also requires a new structure of all institutions, agencies, many of the commissions we have established, which in my opinion are holes through which taxpayers' money leaks, and there is no investment in production values and new values and there is no opening of new jobs that bring these values. When we consider it necessary to pursue a new paradigm then somehow it seems to me that we in Croatia must start a new beginning because these foreigners that we have led to the Croatian state so far and society has not led us to some exit and some light at the end of the tunnel. They are regularly changes in cosmetic nature that do not produce visible and recognizable results. When I say that there is a need for radical changes in Croatian society and a new conditionality, then I think that we need structural changes first. We, if we take a picture, repair the windows on the building of Croatian society or individual windows or some door or maybe we change some of the scratches on the roof, but we forget that the building itself is on a bad footing and that the building needs to be rescheduled. The question is, is it all to tear down what was made and to start over or to continue to rebuild the building with cosmetic changes? The first change, in my opinion, which should follow in Croatian society so that we can talk about getting out of the crisis is so-called. structural changes. We organised Croatia clearly as an independent internationally recognised state and we established all the institutions and agencies to make it work well but obviously it did not lead to any major change. When I say structural changes then I believe that our economy and today it is also about investment that cannot be financed by 270 thousand civil servants, it is impossible to maintain it. Croatia's structure and way of functioning of Croatia need to be restructured. The first thing that should be done concerns the Ministry of Administration but in which the other ministries would be involved is the question that Croatia cannot survive in this way and move forward if there are 530 municipalities. Simply in that hot potato you should touch and look for exits. Secondly, I think 20 counties are too much We'll come back because I think getting out of the crisis is, and this application of the Investment Act is about us still spending more than I make, and we won't be able to skip that imbalance that easily. [[Intruder: You have a little distance from the topic, please return to the topic of the law.]] It is necessary to even dare say to be touched in the structure of the Croatian Parliament not to be explicitly polarised but to act simply as national representatives in the interests of the general good and better and more efficient Croatia. I'd like to warn you of another problem, and these are our embassies in the world. I don't know how many Jandrokovics are gone here, there's no foreign minister, but I think the cost of the state's treasury on the embassy outside on renting buildings to employees is extremely high, I don't know how high it is, but I think that within the embassy, as long as it takes to bring them in atache for the economy. Without that, if they just spend and don't contribute, and they're looking for investors to invest in Croatia, and I don't think that's a big problem, and that's what needs to be answered. So embassies that are necessary, but that they also have experts in economy and marketing and that they try to get investors to invest in Croatia. And I end up, when it comes to investing in Croatia, it is necessary to reduce what was said yesterday, administrative procedures because many give up when faced with all the papers they need, give up investment in Croatia. In this way, without relief and without reducing administrative burdens, we will not be able to solve the problem of foreign investors in Croatia. Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14601	Thank you, too. At your hearing, we have reported four replicas. The first one was Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Grubisic said this country needs a new paradigm. He guessed it, he hit the bottom of it. Both yesterday and the day before yesterday, we saw the praise of the old paradigm given by Prime Minister Merkel, the paradigm squeezes, squeezes, strangles, chokes, the one we manage to kill will survive that is roughly said. Like any paradigm of behavior, this paradigm needs to start from the foundation of comas and what this country is for. Raising GDP of social industrial production, these and those statistics indicators and people living worse. What's that for? The answer to the question of who is served by the state and society actually covers all other answers. So far, we're getting commendations from the white world. It began with the best governor in the world, our former governor of the National Bank, the best governor in the world, and Croatia is sinking. Who's he the best governor for? Well, for those who rewarded him, not for us. They even rewarded him. For those for whom he works for them today, he is the best governor not for Croatian citizens. It's a similar situation with this credit rating. We got a positive credit rating, so we moved up the stairs. Who's that in favor of? So whoever we owe. Not to us Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens do not mean anything but they live from day to day worse. And we'll get another commendation here. We can read on the portals to sell out. Istrian, and we'll get a commendation for that. [[Intruder: Time.]] It's that old paradigm.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14603	Thank you. Next replica of counterpart Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you shot your colleague Grubisic in the srid because in my term we really appointed five commercial attachés, so we introduced something new into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs system into Croatian diplomacy. I guess we had for the first time in the history of the Croatian state commercial attache people who had to have a commercial experience. There's been a lot of people in this competition, five who came from business. These were former management presidents, large firms, a man came from Pliva and some other companies, went to Austria, Germany, Italy, Slovenia and the United States in agreement with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce with Croatian exporters. These were not any party people, I guarantee that it was one of the most honest competitions in the history of probably the Croatian state. This summer those people were fired. They received notice that they do not need Croatian diplomacy. It's amazing to me because one of the messages from this government is that we want to attract capital from the outside. They had independent people, experts, so they weren't officials, bureaucrats were people who came from businesses that understood business. After 6 months because we did it somewhere at the end of the term of office after careful analysis, they get a termination of the contract, so without the current government having analyzed what they've done, whether it was good or bad. They were simply kicked out of the system, probably just because they got a job during the HDZ government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14605	Thank you. Replication response. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14606	I would like to thank Mr Jandrokovic for the useful information regarding the withdrawal of experts on the economy from the embassy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14607	Thank you. Next line, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14608	Thank you very much. But your colleague Jandrokovic did not react to this second part of the presentation of the esteemed representative Grubisic, Don Ivan. In fact, he also spoke of buildings at the disposal of the Croatian state. Here's an example, there in Brussels I saw that at six addresses they have various missions, embassies, Croatian agencies. So instead of rationally thinking and eventually buying a building in Brussels that would be called a Croatian building, a Croatian house. Try to sum up the rents of these premises that the Croatian state pays for all and you would see that it would be certain to be half a war of some kind of credit that the Croatian state would take and have its own building and could even rent a part of the space. It's possible. Therefore, this is the irrationality that counterpart Don Ivan Grubisic was talking about, and I also know that I am often in Brussels that this is exactly what he said, only in Brussels, without talking about other buildings across Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14609	Thank you. And the next replica of the twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Grubisic, you're just, you've made an excellent determination of what it's for and how much it's spent, so it's very important. Here you see, this fantastic, beginning of this new government and Vice President Cacic started with this, it was supposed to have control of energy because it was him if he was interested, and they didn't get a job and there were still free people inside the party and then they set up a business monitoring centre for the energy sector and the biggest investment in this was a public tender for looking for five luxury cars worth 1.8 million kuna. It was the biggest investment, but these cars couldn't have been ordinary cars, but they were alu felge, heated seats, low, sports cars, on which Mr.../Vovornica was excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14611	Comrade twilight, give the microphone, you forgot the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14612	First, take what you can to your own companies, and raise the rest of the people's taxes and the rest and make them cry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14613	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14614	I did not mention management contracts in my presentation, but it is a shame that the crowd on the garbage cans, and that Mr. Vojkovic should receive 7.5 million kuna in compensation for terminating his management contract. It's a shame for the whole society.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14615	Thank you very much. As chairman, I am required to remind you, now repeat Article 212 of the Rules of Procedure that the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. I don't mean you, my colleague Vinkovic, but in general for the debate because the debate went a little wide, so let's just remember. On behalf of the HDSSB club colleague Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. But you have been able to read that consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure before, and it is visible when we have warned as parties to opposition where such a Rules of Procedure will lead. Today it's clear that from 9.30 a.m., not all clubs are going to fill theirs until this break. Unfortunately, neither the first Deputy Prime Minister nor the Minister anymore, so I'm going to be much more gentle, and since I've given up both the replicas and everything, wanting to make a contribution, I don't know if you're hearing these whistles behind this window, we're talking about an investment environment, conditions. We have a worker here in that box surrounded by the police, and that's the Croatian reality. We're talking about investments, small and medium-sized enterprises, we're talking about economic recovery. The workers of Gredel protest, protest here in St. Mark in front of the Croatian Parliament, in front of the Croatian government. And I don't want to accuse anyone, but being out there is the result of the work of all Croatian governments so far, no matter who contributed more or less to this disastrous situation in Croatia. So I'm sticking to the subject. The HDSB club will support this law, but first of all this is a small step, a small step in economic development, economic recovery, as was that of yesterday's law of the Justice Ministry. But also these funds, whether used in this year, next year, are slightly larger than what the Croatian government gives to the Serbian council of municipalities or municipalities in order to finance the presses in which the Croatian president, government, parliament and so on. So what we want to advocate, in any case, is that this amount of 7+8 million kuna is significantly higher because this is indeed the minimum amount of this year in this budget that should satisfy all needs I would not say Croatian economy but also those who will enter entrepreneurial activity, for new entrepreneurs, for beginners, but also for the most part, retaining jobs. The situation that today is for, I would say one small part is not due to this Croatian government but is due practically to all Croatian governments because the problem of the Croatian economy goes back to conversion and privatisation, that crime in conversion and privatisation. But someone here mentioned that Croatia is not Greece. The consumption on a small scale has fallen above 7%, playing with the exchange rate can only damage the stability of the state. The World Bank requires greater efficiency of work. Agriculture, which not only is referred to by Agent Milinkovic may be talking about right now, but we are very much talking about agriculture and what has been done in agriculture and the inaction of the Ministry of Agriculture to improve the situation. Agriculture is more social than developmental. The government's plan is the reduction and the pay coefficient, the acceleration of the fall. The country can't even help tourism. Here I am not now talking about Croatia even though these stories are the same for Croatia. I was talking about Greece. But from all of this, there is a sign of not equality from all of these indicators, but an identity in a state of economy, both Greece and Croatia. All of which, Croatian governments and all the measures in the Croatian economy have led to the fall of economic activity, the fall of gross national income, to have an increase in our debt, to have constant collection of electricity, gas, fuel, various fees, to have the growth of the unemployed, to have a huge drop in living standards, to have a completely insensitive neoliberal concept at present, to often give advice for survival in the media. Less phone, less eat be healthier, etc. etc. That we have a string, so-called. savings in the state budget of which many economic branches were brought before the collapse itself. So, this law, since I am sorry that there is no first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister since 2001, was also involved in the various measures that Croatian governments have taken to help the economy. One of the most successful measures was, in any case, measures taken by the entrepreneur one and the entrepreneur two. The only thing that came up in these programs was the problem of high interest that was defined by the very entry into the program. And this is also one of the HDSSB's proposals to re-open such measures as are related to the lending of not only small and medium-sized enterprises but also the entire Croatian economy including agriculture. Since many of my predecessors spoke of measures, so we ourselves support these measures but as just one small step forward. And you shouldn't expect too much here to shout certain praises. Because here the situation behind these windows shows enough what life is like in Croatia, it shows enough that we all share the interest and the main task must be new jobs and economic recovery. However, regardless of these small steps, the main issue of the central state government is the issue of creating it regardless of what the law says, but the creation would not say entrepreneurship climate but the creation of an investment climate especially for Croatian citizens, especially I would not say foreign citizens but foreign capital. But this is also a matter of macroeconomic policies that central government must implement. One of the most important issues where almost all local self-government units still have a problem, it is a question of entrepreneurial, business areas from which many stare empty precisely for lack of entrepreneurial, not environments, but simply conditions to attract capital not to individual municipalities but to the whole of Croatia. Because the arm on the heart except for a few examples of production in the Republic of Croatia the only foreign capital that came was foreign trade chains and no one else. Several jobs have been opened, several hundred thousand jobs. At the same time, many jobs have been closed in those small family shops, etc. Not wanting to talk about what's going on in these malls where primarily import goods have priority over Croatian production. So the central government must create this environment and conditions not only for here its 15 million kuna, but with a single general program. There is certainly a question of decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation because this law, first and foremost, and all future measures, the ministry's measures expect and the participation of local self-government units. However, without the actual fiscal decentralisation of many units of local self-government regardless of this short-term and one small part of those tax debts that have arisen will not succeed with their budget levels participating in the programme. That's the question, therefore, of state land. The AUDIO issue, the issue of the Real Estate Agency, which does not address units of local self-government, has been the process for almost 8 years. Here's not to mention Mimoz in Djakov whose collapse has been going on since 2000, where still, where the state owns it, there's still no purpose for that space. There is certainly the issue of withdrawing funds from the EU. Here I thank the minister here, so given that this is also a European law, the law that applies, and here I see also the signatures of the assistant minister and coordinator for the EU, the signing of the Deputy Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, I would like to point out that, since we really are the target and we haven't had so much success, except for the Osijek-Baranja County, we haven't had so much success in withdrawing funds from the EU, and given that debate on the absurd theatre, the theory of absurdity here in the current lesson on ignorance, semi-world, politicians, ignorance of what is administrative, and what is the statistical region. I would like to point out that this law also has a European law mark that despite this law, despite the fact that the first Vice-President of the Government several years ago also adopted a referendum decision at his county assembly, which the Justice Ministry then annuled here on the p. 6th Mr. Minister, and I do not know who wrote this law since the proposer and Mr. Cacic, who is now probably on the government's map, is therefore important for the withdrawal of funds from the EU, I do not know if you have read the law, it says that the regional support map differs three regions, of which for two central and eastern Croatia and the Adriatic Croatia the maximum aid intensity that can be allocated in this area is 50% of the gross support equivalent, and 40% for northwestern Croatia for large entrepreneurs. Now, I could talk about absurdity, I could talk about the fraud of all the MPs here and the government's decision, which is past these signatures and assistant foreign ministers, probably beyond your knowledge, because you, among other things, have made a decision to divide Croatia into two statistical regions. I know what administrative and instead of three regions have taken one such decision that has gone to Brussels. And in this way and further and will neglect Slavonia and Baranja. Personally, given that there is a really great involvement of local self-government in the resuscitation programmes of this economy, I would ask that you also transfer to the government your wish, but also the requirement of most units of local self-government, as well as most Croatian citizens to finally translate and implement fiscal decentralisation because what we now have is fiscal centralisation. And I would personally ask that this be the second time that you come to Djakovo as Minister, not to maintain the SDP's tribune, but to come to the city of Djakovo. One time we're like he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14617	Time for my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14618	I'm done. One sentence. As President Milanovic said, they co-operated. I don't eat SDPs, but first of all I want to work with the Croatian government like we all do in Slavonia and Baranja, and among other things, it is your job not to implement party policy but to work first and foremost in the interests of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14619	Thank you. We've got three replicas on your display. Drazen Djurovic is the first replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14620	Here, thank you. Here's a representative of Vinkovic I'd like to replicate something, I'm interested in his opinion whether he agrees on it, so the law provides for additional bonuses in the form of additional funds per job according to the percentage of unemployment in certain counties. I vary categories up to 10%, 10-20%, over 20% of unemployment. This is also a question to the promoter whether only the County criteria are the best criteria for determining the need to further boost the bonuses given to the investor? Why would I bring that up? Because we have one criterion of GDP per county that is also being monitored. We see that this criterion of GDP is the criterion applied in determining certain credits in regional funds. Why aren't we or the promoter why he didn't consider giving credits according to the country's GDP criteria and not according to the unemployment rate criterion? The unemployment rate is just the consequence of the situation, she's not saying anything about it herself. While, for example, the GDP criterion as a criterion would be very encouraging for the development of those regions that have the lowest rates of GDP. It's like a lightmotive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14621	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14622	Well, I agree with my colleague Drazen with you and right here and here, so what I was saying about statistical regions, not administrative regions. Otherwise, the HDSB club also advocates 5 statistical, but also 5 administrative regions, and since I know that long ago in the SDP programme, it was also one of the important things of regionalisation of Croatia, and I even think of these five regions as not really seeing the real reason, and there is a legitimate concern that here is the law where three statistical regions are located, where one minister, as the Minister of Greece, participated in the creation of that study of the Economic Institute, is here overnight, so in law, and there is probably a number of such laws where the decision was made to go to three statistical regions and thus more withdraw funds. So, especially these undeveloped parts of Croatia. Unfortunately, it is today Slavonia and Baranja, not thanks to you and me, but thanks to the work of all the Croatian governments so far, that this is how we practically lead to the theory of absurdity, all the MPs here in the Parliament, all the citizens, regardless of the fact that the Prime Minister Milanovic is in one day, I would have said to him in a very inappropriate way and persuaded Croatian citizens that they live better and that this division into two statistical regions will be far better and where, for example, it will be better for them. Đakovo, Slavonia and Branja, Osijek withdraws more funds if they are connected with Zagreb and Varazdin than they are alone because they have significantly lower GDP. That's the case with GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14623	Thank you very much. Next replica of counterpart Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14624	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I thank my colleague Vinkovic for giving me the opportunity to say two words about agriculture again. I do not imagine that I am the only one invited in this assembly to talk about agriculture but I believe it is necessary to say and warn of the circumstances that are happening because you are surely witnessing that in no area has such a blow and such a blow occurred as in this area and in relation to the village. And secondly, I was talking about agriculture both earlier and earlier. And you may remember, but maybe I didn't give that plow and plow statement at the time. Then it caused a certain blizzard. So what's wrong with that? And out of the plowing and the plow, food is created, and it is to greet every noble man of honor. And the third thing, I live in agriculture, I live with these peasants and I witness their efforts and in these difficult conditions, these droughts and heat as they labor. And then all of a sudden you say there's no drought, there's nothing you can do. And it's not just a problem, the problem you might know more about wartime, etc. But what happened in livestock is unforgivable. I was also looking forward to those successes of the operational programmes in cattle, 500 and more barns are made of which today each other, the third day simply stops working. Milk production is dropping and meat production is falling accordingly. In due course, this will be a major problem, imports of calves from Romania, etc. So you see what happens to meat production and you see how food prices go to heaven. Thus, this part gives the impression that agriculture cannot be spoken of and that the village is in some way described. That's my thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14625	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica of counterpart Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14626	Well, I can agree with you. The situation in agriculture has not been better in those previous mandates. It was unlike this one it was anyway. But first of all, I want to warn you, for example. I also live with farmers and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, ordinary citizens. I want to remind you, for example. that we have a championship oracle in Biograd at sea without wanting to offend anyone. Here is now in my friendly town of Sinj, and in Slavonia it is likely that this elemental accident is rarely seen by the minister except when he comes from certain travels. Well then I propose to the Ministry of Agriculture since we have such tendencies and also for the development of continental tourism, for example. We're organizing a tuna fishing championship in Kopački rit. That would also be interesting to watch. But let's go back to the problem of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and what I'm definitely saying. So I ask the minister for an answer, I support this law, I support these measures, I even said that this amount of 15 million kuna is slightly higher than what we finance the Serb council of municipalities or municipalities for the issue of those presses that are being attacked by both the first and the second and third Croatian presidents, etc. but I would like to know what this ministry says about the division of two statistical regions and what it says in this law, which was signed by Assistant Minister Pusic, where three statistical regions were introduced. So, who's cheating on these MPs is that the Prime Minister and first Deputy Prime Minister or Minister Maras?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14627	Thank you. Next replica of counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14628	Thank you very much. You have learned well from your colleague Vinkovic that in the 6th article of this legislative proposal, and paragraph 8 states that the map of regional support differs three regions. Now it's most likely a copying activity, so instead of this new decision that the government made to be two regions in which she suffered Slavonia and Baranja along with Zagreb, Varazdin and others, there was some confusion. In order not to be ridiculous and not to be ridiculous in their writings, they have tabled the amendment, seeking out who Pandek is the representative of the SDP Assembly, in which, in one part of his amendment, the amendment has just been tabled in Article 6(8). Who wants to improve ignorance or I don't know what this bill is. When you talk about a comparison with Greece, then you should really say that the most centralized state of Europe is Greece. These decisions by the government and the policies it implements are therefore just trying to make Greece equally centralised if not more than Greece. Well, that's why I'm afraid we shouldn't end up like Greece. You were also talking about a macroeconomic policy that wasn't there. Although we have won the inauguration of the new prime minister and the new Government of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there are no Ss or let alone guidelines. Sometimes it would be necessary for each government to have a vision and strategy for the development of Croatia and Croatia's economy in some period of time. For 10 years, but these are only fire-fighting measures that are trying to boost a little bit of a simply stifled economy, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14629	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14630	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14631	We have a response to the replica. A colleague, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14632	Well, my colleague Grubisic is right because measures to help the economy should be seen comprehensively. So one of the measures certainly and I don't believe that Mr. Minister yesterday, the Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany praised this government for raising the VAT from 23% to 25% even though it was in the plan, and these also had it to reduce VAT and then increased it, that it praised it as a measure of the recovery of the Croatian economy because that would be good then the German government and Angela Merkle would raise VAT and not lower it. So, first of all, it should be seen as one law of a merged vessel. The lower price affects higher consumption and higher consumption affects higher production. And what I'm looking for, so what Mr. Boro was talking about, and the fact is that the SDP cannot admit that he was most likely valued by the first Deputy Prime Minister and the HNS to divide Croatia into two statistical regions. It cannot be recognised as Croatia's SDP, but it puts one MP to give the amendment after yesterday's move forward. And also Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic needs to come here, apologize for what some have called non-nationals, half-worlds, ignorants, politicians. Or it is Minister Maras' fault that in the law he proposes, even the first Deputy Prime Minister Cacic puts it in three statistical regions. Mr. Vice President, that's scandalous. I don't know if you're reading all the laws, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to Brussels a division into two statistical regions. Deputy Minister Pusic signs the law where three statistical regions are. And someone still raised money for that study.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14633	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14634	It's a scandal. And the people are under our windows.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14635	Next on behalf of SDP club colleague Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14636	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, Honorable MPs and MPs. There are some debates you can't be late for whenever you come to. What's important is maybe to say that we see that we're just a few statistics that are not quite satisfactory, I'd say defeated. Exporting per capital to Croatia is 2000 euros, in Slovenia 10730, means five times more, in Denmark 13285, not to go further to Ireland and to other developed countries. So without exports, we're definitely not in a position to even think about any recovery. In 2010, a country that is twice our size, in 2010. The Czech twice as big. Direct foreign investment 5 billion, over 5, Croatia 300 million euros. It means a big difference. The philosophy of economic thought, what was essentially happening in Croatia and how it would ever happen and then it would happen. So we financed our domestic demand by foreign money, and that's the essence of the story. However, domestic capital needs to be financed by foreign demand. And until this basic structure and thinking, and then channelling the funds will certainly not change, nor will the development of the Croatian economy, and then for any economic recovery. And so I don't like the word reform or the word reform. It's something mystical, it's something only those who wrote know, it's something that's hard to fit into real life. What we are talking about today and what needs to be discussed and working on is removing obstacles, or barriers. Removing barriers from various, administrative, fiscal, parafiscal, but also from those barriers in the heads, that may be the most important. And so I see this bill as an attempt to do something different from nothing, try to do something unlike nothing, and I see it as an attempt to inject an adrenaline injection into a sleeping Croatian organism to wake up and start it. It's certainly gonna take a lot more of these injections, and this is just one of them, and it's certain we won't cause adrenaline shock. I would like to challenge the adrenaline shock in a positive sense and to make the Croatian organism fast, pulsating and in the Croatian bloodstream to be much more energy than it is now. But I see this law just as an attempt to inject this single dose of adrenaline that will enable the awakening of the Croatian economy, and I see it in three key things that this law provides for. The first is because it refers to a lot more entrepreneurs than so far who want to invest, to a lot more entrepreneurs. The second is that employee support is even three times bigger. This means that for a new employee in Slavonia, each new employee will receive 9000 euros in support of the state in the most underdeveloped parts. This is good for Slavonia, this is good for undeveloped parts of Croatia. And thirdly, for those most labour intensive, for those who employ 100, 200 and 500 support workers will be greater because this very labour intensive activity in Croatia and as in Europe may be the most endangered today because they have a great competition with the price of work in Asian countries and that is simply the reality and that is something to be recognised. And one of the good things about this law is that it encourages manufacturing or entrepreneurs who deal with technologies. We have a big and huge problem that in Croatia we are six times behind in the structure of investment in research and development compared to the European average. 3% is staked in research and development in Croatia, unlike the average of the European Union where it is at 18%. Now if we're going to look at each individual country separately, then probably that indicator for Germany, certain Scandinavian countries, high-tech countries, high-export countries is much, much larger. And the only thing that matters is that we also raise that percentage, that is, to try out the domestic capital it has, from the domestic savings it has, to remove its barriers in order to boost exports, that is, foreign demand. It's the paradigm of the whole economic thought, the balance of payments. Without this, it will not be possible to finance, or balance... the balance sheet, or finance the debt, and that is crucial. And that is why I see this law as an attempt to inject an adrenaline injection into the Croatian organism that has been put to sleep and that it wakes up and starts and that is why the SDP Representatives Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14637	Thank you. At your presentation, we have now and Thursday's replica reported. Dujomir Marasovic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14638	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The replica of Mr Bernardic. He said philosophy of economic thought. That is why in some countries there was large exports, and in Croatia there was small exports and other parameters along with it. I would say that the philosophy of this government, the philosophy of the economic thought of this government, is unprofessional, unknowing and completely contrary to all those thoughts from the world's professional literature that recommend countries in recession for a solution to the economic crisis. So, every schoolboy is told to solve the economic crisis and so on. Reduce taxes, reduce the cost of the state and increase consumption. It's just one of the elements. I can't do anything in this replica. What did this government do? She just blindly increased her taxes in every way possible. And not only that, but philosophy thinks that taxes kill every turn of money, I can't now, I don't have time and it's happening and it's going to happen over the next few years and it's not going to help the new law. So she raised taxes, she increased the cost of the state, and although she's hiding here in health care she's reduced 4 billion to foll so she went to Berlin to boast that it was reduced. It will come at the end of the year 5 billion in billing and the deficit of this country will be about 15.16 billion as last year and something more. So it increased the deficit, and it reduced actual consumption, and it was supposed to be stimulated in different ways not by reducing salaries to nurses but by reducing the cost of health care. Because shrinking wages reduced consumption and thus everything else in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14639	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14640	I was actually thinking of saying something, and maybe it doesn't make sense. I don't know, thanks very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14641	Thank you, too. The next replica of Martina Dalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14642	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernardić, you said that domestic capital needs to be financed by foreign demand and you also said that it is necessary to encourage foreign demand. A colleague, Bernardić, financing foreign demand with domestic capital means giving loans from Croatian residents abroad to organise some production there or it means having investments in Croatian capital abroad so that some jobs can be opened there. A colleague, Bernardić, means to finance foreign demand. Just concentrate a little bit and don't use the economic terms as you seem to fit into your speech, because you're saying something that doesn't matter. And if that's what you think, then maybe it's possible to find some evidence that it's actually the meaning of your policy, that capital goes abroad, that there's production and that there's jobs being realized. Then perhaps you have therefore introduced a dividend tax to pay Croatian entrepreneurs tax here to take economic and economic activities in Croatia. Because of course, those who are resident in the European Union will not. So now I fully understand one whole other aspect of your policy. The dividend tax, the anti-enterprise climate that is created here, obviously aims at what you say – to finance foreign demand, which is that the capital is leaving Croatia either through credit instruments, whether through investments being made abroad rather than in Croatia. And this law, which is here, should probably boost the investments that will be made in Croatia. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14643	Thank you very much. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14644	Here's a thank you for your teacher's discourse from the start of the economy with non-residents and residents. Well, I think I've been very clear enough for everyone who understood me. You probably understood me, too, but maybe that's not an opportunistic confession here right now. So, the fact is that without encouraging foreign demand, which means exporting that people living abroad are buying Croatian products, but which are created by Croatian capital there is no change in the model of economic policy and that is our policy for the past 20 years. You've been practicing that policy, too. That's it. There's actually not much to add. I believe you don't understand. But the fact is, maybe for the individual reasons for this replica, you have to act like you don't understand me. And I forgive you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14645	Thank you. Next replica Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bernardić initially wondered to see where we were, so I quote quote quotes. Let's see where we can see it, or we could hear it if there wasn't isolation in these spaces, in these windows. Here we are. They're fucking under our windows. Take a walk in the Upper Town, the containers are being collected. And here we are. We're not in these statistical numbers. These statistics are just an illustration of incompetence, one, the other and the third governments. Foreign capital needs to come into our economy to raise our economy. That's great and that's true. But what about Croatian capital. There are large deposits in Croatian banks that could perfectly start a new investment cycle if the Croatian money had confidence in the Croatian government or if the Croatian banks under quotes were Croatian. That money goes somewhere else because we don't have our own banks. You're about to sell your last. I can say that that paradigm, like my colleague Grubisic said, I really don't understand that paradigm. You also talked about research and development, research and development are at the lowest levels in Croatia compared to most of the countries in Europe. It was done on purpose. We witnessed that in the 1990s. One of the first steps in destroying Croatia's sovereignty was the destruction, closure and sale of development institutes from Pliva to Končar, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14647	Thank you very much. We have an answer to your replica. Comrade Bernardić, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14648	Well, here's the thing, Your Honor, Agent Nicholas, two things. You also mentioned what's going on out there. So here you have two options of bankruptcy with liquidation or bankruptcy with restructuring or... And there's only one thing that's trying to save jobs, and there's no choice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you understand? There's just no choice but to save the job. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14649	Thank you, too. And the last replica, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14650	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, counterpart Bernardic actually said on behalf of the SDP club one great truth, the truth that was failed this morning to cover up the first vice president and minister, and she is that trying to do something is an attempt. And you know what an attempt means, especially in the economy? When can you expect results? It will take days and days for the results to come. But what Dalić told you today, you have discovered in principle what SDP's policy is, and you can't since you can't say in the City of Zagreb that it helps entrepreneurs in Zagreb and the surrounding area to increase the price of heating by 37% if you raise basic energy, which is gas and electricity, 20% and 30%, if in the VAT you eliminate the possibility of making VAT returns and then you say that you have helped them through a reduction in the contribution of 2%. You know what this all means for a big company in Zagreb that employs, say, five or ten thousand people? That means at the end of the year a balance of 300 million kuna. When you add up what you allegedly gave them, and you add up everything you've loaded on their backs. But I said that we in HDZ will support this law for the simple reason that any idea that goes towards helping entrepreneurs is worth supporting, but I'm glad that on behalf of the club, the strongest party in the Kukurik coalition had this debate. The debate that she clearly said we don't know what to do, we're trying to do something. You just forgot that the end of the 9th month and that what you think you're doing next year had to be all prepared, all brought with the banks, with potential investors provided funds because you these 9,000 euros for a new job will be difficult to secure in the budget next year if you stick to the Fiscal Responsibility Act and if you fulfil all your obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14651	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. Here's my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14652	Here, I'll surprise you a little bit. I'll agree with you. I'll agree with you. This is really an attempt to do something about it, and I'm sure the results won't come overnight. But there has been a time of eight years so both your experience and support for the last 8 years that you have also tried to do something, and the results are seen, will also help us in this and I thank you from the heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14653	Thank you. And on behalf of the Government Minister. Here's Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's after the club debate a little review of some of them. And first of all, let me say that I am delighted that everyone will support this law because they see the government's good intentions and in some way idea and promotion I would say to the entire investment and environment incentive system, which means that we can agree if ideas are good and that as such this law should be observed. Here are some things that were mentioned in the clubs, first of all here I'm going to go HDZ I've already commented on, so the laborers are, or Mrs Tyrelli, saying something and she's asked if there's any incentive for PLOMIN? So in the principle of public enterprises, public investments don't bring about incentives. This is aimed at private initiatives, entrepreneurs who will invest, and it is very clear here if there is, for example, another initiative in capital investment can be set up there, but cannot be achieved when it comes to public enterprises. This is about HEP, so there won't be any support. As for Mr Grubisic, who said that this is essentially a good initiative, but that our problem is structural, that we should make structural changes in the economy. That's exactly what we're doing, and it's kind of all these problems that have been going on in the last few days, that's what they are. We have some things to say very clearly what's white and what's black. Which can be done further, which can't be done. We have nothing to do with delaying decision-making, so we generate even bigger problems, which unfortunately has been the case in Croatia in recent years. When we talk about shipbuilding, when we talk about some other industries and about delaying decisions that are unpopular, but which are unfortunately necessary and which we have to make because unfortunately some things can't go like this anymore. And anything with the prerequisite to create I would say a normal situation that Croatia can develop. And so it will be as far as this government is concerned, we will not delay decisions as the last government has done for two, three, four years and hopefully never make them. We will make decisions very clear and implement and I am convinced that the results of such a policy will be seen. As for the comments of the HDSSB Representatives Club Mr. Vinkovic and this I would say I would not say that he is not aware of what happened here but rather tries to potentiate and, for the sake of live transmission, to update the topic of three regions, two regions, but here the government has said very clearly, and the prime minister said one day no one will lose any kuna but the contrary that none of the countries that have been in our experience in recent years have taken advantage of the maximum part of the European funds, i.e. the support that could be withdrawn here just increasing the absorption capacity of Croatia so that the entire territory of Croatia can benefit from these funds. And what the prime minister also said on condition that Croatia's GDP is growing in the coming years 7,8% in the Chinese model for me in 10 years might have passed 75% of the EU average, but also in this situation, which unfortunately will not happen in the future, we can change the statistical regions and again adapt that our parts of Croatia that need more help can develop I would say in the most appropriate way possible. So no one's even been denied anyone, they all have the same chance. However, the state and the Ministry of Regional Development will in particular encourage the development of those parts of Croatia that are less developed with help and technical and monetary means that can be applied at all for certain means, we are already doing so. If you want from my ministry, I can now mention Slavonia and two cities in which you look wonders is not the SDP in power but is HDZ, it is a termite with no idea where Mr. Lucic is and I don't know if Huška is still Mr. Representative, the mayor, means two cities that have applied for their entrepreneurial zones for EU funds received 7.8 million kuna, reported a competition with my ministry and the state co-financed that they could use the EU funds. So you can also make a project in Slavonia, the state will help where there is no money of local self-government units to realize a quality project but no one has to say that, I ask you not to confuse people because you confuse people by saying that now because of someone being denied. It's not. That's just not true. All will be able to use EU funds as Croatia will most likely have a very difficult time using all the new ones at its disposal, God has made that possible and this is how we left the possibility of using money in northern Croatia, which might be slightly more economically developed but not yet as developed as we would like to develop. And I am convinced that with this administrative division in two or not administrative but statistical division into two regions, Croatia will be successful in using EU funds. And what is particularly important is that we are looking forward to this law being referred to in the House when it has not been agreed in some way at the government level, of course we have classified it as previously planned, but here I would say the approach of the MPs who immediately saw it and here today we already have an amendment on the table that is talking about harmonising with this situation that is today in action and the possible changes that will take place in the future, so that the government will accept these amendment fellow MP Drazenko Pandek who corrected these things. But to remove suspicions of conspiracy with counterpart Vinkovic, no one is there to deceive or deceive anyone, simply the law was drafted before the government decided on this statistical division of Croatia, which again, I end up stressing is something that is best at this time for the use of EU funds for Croatia in general and also for Slavonia. There are other examples of Slavonia definitely need help and I am very much present in Slavonia you said yourself that I was also in Đakov, here to thank the sisters of St. Cross, Hall of Florentine, where I had the honour of maintaining the stands that I had been hosted there, and I would be very happy to come again. I'm sorry you weren't here, there were other MPs from Djakov's, even two of them, so whenever I'm there, we'll be able to talk. And as far as unemployment criteria are concerned, he was also introduced to help less developed counties, among which unfortunately there are quite often counties from Slavonia and Baranja. So the biggest support under this law is likely to be paid in this area. And the second thing is the biggest benefit of new employment in the County of Osijek-Baranja or Vukovar-Srijemska will just have local ones because people will be employed and some more money will remain units of local self-government. means this law is also aimed at helping less developed county because anyone who has invested for example in Zagreb County or Požeko-Slavonska because of those 50 or 70 km will decide to go there because I will get twice as much support for the employee. And that's the intensity of this government. And the attempts and the failures, you know what it's like in life. Someone's been trying for eight years, and we're probably gonna be successful with these attempts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14655	Thank you, too. We have seven replicas reported. Dujomir Marasovic first answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14656	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said that this government is famous for making decisions unlike the previous one that hasn't made decisions, and it's kind of being a light motif out of the mouth of all your colleagues in power and in the government, and so, I think we should stop doing that more. And I'll tell you I'll help you figure out what kind of decisions you've made. You're not here for nine months in power, you've been here almost a year because in nine months, a child is conceived and born and almost is about to start walking or laughing. It's one whole new life being born in 10 months for almost a year. What are you, what decisions have you made? You made one single decision disastrously to stop all the investments that the last government did or what the government had planned, and that's tragic for this country, and none of your investments had in mind or had been prepared to drive and to get Croatia started and to make up for it. Let's just take one example to explain what I'm saying. You stopped the Pelješki Bridge, not only should you kiss every inch of that bridge because it connects Croatia from two parts with a true unique Croatia. Every inch of that concrete should be kissed by every Croat. But there is economic logic that this bridge should be and continue to be built before now by the EU who will be who will know when. Why? It would sell cement to pay VAT, the Split Square would do iron, workers have something to pay for VAT, and you inaugurated that in the future you would incriminate the facades that these facades and incarcerate with these facades in 5 years. So what do we have? Nothing. So it was cheaper and better to build a Peles Bridge than to do facades that in 5, 10 years where the terrain won't be a bit wetter. That's your logic and that's your decision. You have made no other decisions that would be in the role of starting a Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14657	Thank you. Next replica, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to removing this suspicion of misunderstanding of investment investments. I didn't ask if this law would provide incentives for a thermal power plant, I just said that I wouldn't like it when the second year we're going to be doing an analysis based on this investment law that we've brought here today to make 800 million euros in investments in a thermal power plant, so that's two different concepts. Let me get this straight. And on the trail of what counterpart Marasovic said, it is not enough to make a decision, the decision should be implemented as such and the decision may have positive and negative results. I hope that all decisions made will have positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14659	Thank you. Zoran Vinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14660	Thank you. This was the SDP's tribune, Mr. Minister, which I wasn't invited to, but here I call you as mayor when you come to Djakovo City for the second time, feel free to come to the mayor's office. I repeat, I don't eat SDPs and I don't eat friends. On the other hand, this story of two and three statistical regions today seems a bit sad. All these years, out of great care for Slavonia, if it were such a big concern Slavonia today wouldn't be here where, from the once richest region, the most backward region. The European funds this way, and you are aware that most of these funds will end up in public enterprises, not in local self-government. The town of Đakovo is one of those who has a signed programme in ISPA 37m euros for purifier and sewers, etc. So, the thing is that here is primarily a project done on three statistical regions, and in the end the government decided on two, and we know the reason politically, it's the first Deputy Prime Minister and the fear that Varazdin won't be able to withdraw funds, because he wouldn't have called a referendum a few years ago. And since we are primarily MPs, people's representatives, I am taking this opportunity and I congratulate the Croatian Government for making today's decision to restore the legal personality to the Djakovi ergeli, and I thank all citizens of the City of Djakov who fought and fought for this legal personality of the ergele. With yet another proposal, that the Croatian Horsefaring Centre should not have gone under the Payment Agency but be an integral part of the State Ergele Đakovo.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14661	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14662	And I'd like to ask you to help the economy, just one word about human destiny, remind Minister Jakovina, since here's an entrepreneur who has a farm pharmacy, his ministry is currently in debt of $120,000, so here's to pay people a salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14663	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy. Apology, answer, Minister Maras. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14664	So, I'm just going to say very briefly, I'm not talking about the agricultural pharmacy and the Đakovki bonds, the ergels, etc. What is fascinating to me is why you are against that people in northern Croatia can use the European Union funds in Varazdin. I just can't figure it out. What are you against it for? Why not allow me that people from northern Croatia can also participate in the projects offered by the European Union, especially because we will not have any other countries, the most successful economies, the most organised countries in Europe have not used all the money at their disposal. And why you're against it is simply incomprehensible. The state, what I told you, will allow those who have been sub-capitated, who can't write projects, who don't have people or educated, or who haven't done so far, not having their resources if the municipalities are underdeveloped so they can't co-finance 20% of European projects, the state will help and will help right where it is most needed, and this is Slavonia, that's what I would say down there is part of Dalmatia, Zagora that is undeveloped, etc. That's where we'll help. And why are you against that if anyone can apply from Čakovec, Varazdin, Krapina-Zagorian County? Well, it's not, I'll dare say it now, in the interest of Croatia. What you're saying is not in Croatia's interest. It is in Croatia's interest to exploit as much as we can and to make the most of it in the area and to develop the best infrastructure in Croatia and regional development. And it's an interest, and that's why we did it, not to deny Slavonia, because right now we're going to help Slavonia the most. And the fact that it hasn't been done in the past few years, please contact your colleagues on the left. Unfortunately, we can't answer for that. And how important were bridges, centimeters, yes, there was one 100, 150 centimeters of access road for the Pelješki bridge in 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14665	Thank you. Thank you, Minister Maras. And we have a replica, here's my colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14666	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm going to tell you right now about this last finding of yours. Don't be, I won't just say demagogue now, don't be bold when you're going to find something none of us have ever said. We are not against the fact that anyone from Croatia withdraws funds from European funds but against what today was the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia five years ago, Mr. Cacic, that the end of a region like Zagreb enters anyone else and disturbs the possibility of using funds. Not three or two, but five regions, that's all. Then, if Zagreb were a private region and Varazdin and Čakovec, the whole of Međimurje and the whole of Slavonia and Baranja, they would be able to draw funds that were intended from European funds indeed to the poor and undeveloped. And we are opposed to Zagreb becoming also in that part of what was in those three divisions together with Varazdin and Čakovec, to be five regions, Slavonia and Baranja one, SZ Croatia second, we have Dalmatia, we have Istria, Primorje etc. and the City of Zagreb and all the stories would be solved. But let me just tell you one more thing. That's a tough twist of thesis. When you say Slavonia won't lose a single kuna, don't talk. We will have a billion and 350m euros at our disposal when we join the European Union. So it was the first move when you divided into two statistical regions already in the paper that Zagreb and only Holding had ready projects for a billion and 200 million kuna. They have the money to participate their 20%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14667	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14668	And Slavonia and Baranja are gone. And your mission should have been to provide a fund for co-financing for all the ends that don't have their 20%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14669	You're done with your friend Buric, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14670	And instead of what you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14671	We have a reply to the replica, Minister Maras, please. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14672	Well, then you confused me a little bit in the debate of my colleague Vinkovic who said that because of the first vice president, it was changed because Varazdin couldn't use it. Then you must agree between yourselves what you mean. ... /The noise in the hall./... No, no, that's what you said, I apologize... But I'll set up... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14673	The colleagues from the bench didn't get the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14674	So you said you couldn't use Varazdin for that I had to react, but now I'm going to ask a question and why do you mind that Zagreb also uses it? Well, we can't take advantage of any country. I don't know if you've heard me well, no country, so countries like Bulgaria, Romania used 15, 20% of the funds that Europe has made available to them and paid more membership fees than they have benefited from European funds. [[Intruder Batinić: Fellows, please, you have not received a word.]] Yes, these are countries which are now members of the European Union. Romania, Bulgaria very undeveloped countries when we look at infrastructure, etc. Most likely that not even the best-organised countries have used all the money we will find hard to use, so that on this side Zagreb will not take any kuna to Slavonia and Baranja and people must know it. And that's what you said to help, so that's what we do. I just told you two projects where we co-finance money from my ministry. Here's the Mayor of Pleternica, who can confirm for the European Enterprise Area Fund where my ministry will pay the money it needs to the local unit to implement the project. That's how it's gonna be. A fellow Greek has a special fund for writing programs, competitions, and where will it benefit? Well, of course, where there's no infrastructure, where people aren't. And to prepare the projects, you don't have to be afraid. I beg you, I'm sometimes at the border that I'm afraid you might understand but you won't accept. So everyone in the territory of the Republic of Croatia will be able to use both Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14675	Thank you very much. Comrade Buric, can I help you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14676	Mr. Vice President, given all these demagogue statements I'm looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the club. [[Intruder Batinić: I ask you to use the Rules of Procedure.]] To explain, I would reassure the Croatian public because of all these demagogue statements that are trying to discredit HDSSB representatives that we are against any end in the Republic of Croatia and against Zagreb. [[Invader Batinić: You are looking for a break like this.]] According to a 10-minute break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14677	Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna set up a break, and we're gonna move on at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14678	Whenever you want. It doesn't matter if it's a direct transmission or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14679	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14680	Stanka, but Mr. Minister to stay here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14681	No, no. We'll wait for the replicas later. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. Did you hear from your colleague Shuker? Are you looking for a break? Great. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Here's on behalf of the HDSSB club colleague Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14683	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There isn't a minister we've been looking for but it's not the most important thing. The most important thing is the public doing and doing so to the public of the entire Republic of Croatia not only Slavonia and Baranja as someone might have thought. So, there are very dangerous statements that we could hear from Minister Maras about why you are from the HDSSB or why you are from Slavonia against getting the money, against Zagreb getting the money too. So, clearly and loudly I will repeat what we have always said we are neither against the fact that Zagreb lives well nor against the fact that Varazdin lives well, nor the fact that Čakovec lives well, nor the fact that Istria lives well, nor the fact that it lives well in Dalmatia or any other part of the Republic of Croatia, but we are against the fact that no one has understanding in works except for the words of poverty and underdevelopment that citizens live in Slavonia and Baranja. And the use of European funds by joining the EU is one of the ideal opportunities for the entire Republic of Croatia, but also for Slavonia and Baranja to correct this injustice against the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja. And when we really hoped that the Republic of Croatia would use the real purpose of European funds, and it helped undeveloped areas in each Member State to reach those developed, to help the poor to reach the rich, that is the purpose of European funds, then we got the situation first that instead of the five regions to be fair, of which are 4 plus the City of Zagreb, there was a division into three regions. It is said why you are, are you opposed to Zagreb getting money? I ask the question although it is not here, but here it is for all of the ruling coalition, does this mean that today's first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Cacic, was against Zagreb and the citizens of Zagreb when he threatened the referendum five years ago because Zagreb was attached to the northwestern region? No, the thing is, the funds are meant for the poor, not the rich. And it is not our fault that the rate of development in the City of Zagreb is 125% and in Slavonia and Baranja is 36%. And it is not normal, we are not against it being made from three regions to two regions, from three regions to five regions it would be fair but from three regions to two regions it has helped Varazdin, but not at the expense of Zagreb but at the expense of Slavonia and Baranja. The money from the European funds we're talking about isn't meant for those who cross 75%. And this is to the harm of Varazdin, but most of all to the harm of Slavonia and Baranja. So much for that. ... I'm talking about regional funds. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So to say that it is because we are fighting for funds to come to an area where we live which is objectively the poorest, that this is against any other region is a policy not of a policy of balanced and even development of the Republic of all its parts but of a policy of discord and division between certain parts of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I had to react to this demagogue statement, which is both dangerous and immoderate and inappropriate. And once again underestimating and offensive to the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja. Instead of doing what we expected the government to do if it was honest when Prime Minister Milanovic said from the beginning that Slavonia would have a special treatment. You should have done everything to create a fund from which to finance the funds coming from Slavonia and Baranja because we will not have the means to co-finance our 20% or 25% of how much it will take, unlike the city of Zagreb that will have. And I'm gonna get this over with. What is the danger of both Slavonia and Baranja and Zagreb and Varazdin and Čakovec together? In fact, as soon as the two statistical regions were announced, the next day it came out immediately in the media that Zagreb and Zagreb Holding have projects worth only these two entities, worth a billion 200 million euros and we will have total capacity to withdraw a billion 350 million euros. Now imagine what will be left of the others? It's not for us. [[Intruder: Time of fellow Buric.]] Here I go, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for giving me the time to say this. For the sake of the Croatian public, no one from Slavonia and Baranja is against it but we ask everyone else to understand the situation we are in and if the Republic of Croatia could not find the means to help us, do not take what is rightfully ours by the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14684	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14685	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry that there is no Minister Maras, but I think that when we succeeded today, somehow after the heated start of the debate, we all talked about the law at the end, and we said that all the law would support Mr. Maras obviously wasn't enough, and he went into some sort of division. Croatia has a lot to share and no one should share Croatia, however, some facts should not simply be kept quiet in this House. Is the best 5 or 3 regions we talked about two years ago. You made these three statistical regions so that someone wouldn't tell us again that we don't know what we're talking about, and then someone made a different division overnight. But the biggest tragedy is that someone believes that no one will lose anything and that everyone will get everything. Let's do it on a simple mathematics pučkoskoškolski over there in the first and second grade when children have those small gatherings and let's say that Slavonia would get 50 of this central Croatia region where Zagreb and Zagreb County and Varazdinska and Krapinsko-Zagorska would get 20 or 30, and this one down would get the same about 50. And now look, we're putting this together from 50 and 20, 50 and 30, and we're saying that whoever has the right to get 50 is going to get 50 in the whole story. No, it just won't. And I would no longer like to talk about it but simply for the sake of facts and truth with this division definitely those who have come to this gathering who are weaker will get less. Well, no one will stop Zagreb, and because of its economic power, Zagreb can't stop it, after all, I am from practically close to the city of Zagreb and Zagreb County and I certainly wouldn't allow myself to do anything else to score a political auto golf like this but some facts about Croatia can't shut up. And instead of talking today about these incentive funds for entrepreneurs and when we have already come to such a topic about the statistical division of Croatia into three regions, but it also shows one thing I don't know what to say and I don't want to use a difficult word but at least a government that doesn't have feelings because if you become a law and you have three regions in the law, if in the meantime something has changed, it would be logical to find today on the benches a government amendment saying that the article is changing and that there will be no two but three regions, actually three than two regions. And if we wanted to talk about it today, then it was up to the minister to expect the government to say which way and which credits would help poorer units of local self-government come to the funds so they could pay for that component of their own. After all, the government's purpose in this whole story about European funds because these units of local self-government cannot do it alone is to create administrative and programming capacities for all in Croatia. And those who are intellectually stronger and those who are intellectually weaker but precisely because these funds are used for what they are intended for, and that is more evenly the development of the Republic of Croatia. Because when this Croatia is more evenly discussed, then we will no longer discuss these topics that we are talking about today. And we talk about other people's money, and what a tragedy it is for us all together in Croatia, we argue about other people's money, we are not able to share other people's money, and then we will use those people's gifts to share them, and if they are shared, we will not get anything from Brussels. And that's true. And I think that because of all this and that these discussions are not being conducted in this way anymore in the Croatian Parliament, I think that the Resort Ministry of Regional Development should make one whole material with all the calculations, present it to the representatives in the Croatian Parliament and simply remove this as a point from the agenda, although I think that the Government should make such a decision without having a broad discussion with the mayors, the mayors and the mayors and also the MPs did not want to and should not have made it. And I'm saying I don't understand why Minister Maras, after a debate that was both tolerated and positive all the time, was trying to go into some kind of conflict. In the end, we ended up where it practically had nothing to do with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14686	Thank you, too. We continue with replicas on the main exhibition of Jakša Baloevic. Here you go, buddy. In fact, the replica was of Minister Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14687	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I don't think there should be any good intentions about this law when it comes to encouraging investment and I'm going to set just one example in that regard. A good friend of mine this summer's entrepreneur got five offers and what's going on? There's been some information coming out on TV about real estate taxes. Within five days of those five, he gave up his engagement in the one project. The project was worth 5m euros. So I think it would be good for the government to probably get to our bench soon to get this law... taxing real estate, that it's really doing this cautiously and to get to know the whole population more closely. And then today it was about interest. The same way through the story with friends, acquaintances always impose various stories and say, if the interest tax comes, then we'll raise money from the bank and then we'll buy an apartment in... a square costing 500 euros. So all this information that goes like this to the public I think should be quite careful and that a little more detail about these laws that will most likely follow very soon, to inform the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14688	Thank you, too. This ended the discussion of the clubs for basic exposure. We're moving on to an individual debate. Martina Dalic called first. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14689	Thank you very much. What I wanted to focus my discussion on was, in a certain way, being dragged through the debates of clubs during the morning, but also through the presentations of the promoters and so on by Mr. Cacic and Mr. Maras, which is whether this law that he has and which is called the Law on Encouragement of Investments will essentially solve the problem of blocking investment and falling investment in Croatia. Does it bring about this fundamental change, whether it is an integral part of the mosaic that will reverse that negative trend. Therefore, previous speakers were often used by means of an attempt, in a certain way signalling that they themselves are aware that no matter how important financial incentives to investments may not be the core of the problem. So, like yesterday, when we discussed the Law on Commercial Society, I believe that as good as these intentions are, as good as it is to have incentives for investment, this does not aim at the core of the problem and is not essentially sufficiently determined and strong enough, if you want a radical measure to begin to create a twist. And why am I saying that, because one of the questions that has been raised in one society, and in the context of this law, it was here in our House, so tell me who's going to pay it, how nobody's saying it, so imagine what the cost is. So because actually when you get in a position to use these incentives, then it's actually the worst behind you. What I hold is a significant investment problem in Croatia is what this law does not deal with, and these are obstacles to the complexity of administrative procedures, all that an investor needs to master in order to invest. And I'm not going into any of the issues here that I like to discuss in order to actually avoid the debate essentially who's to blame and who's not to blame. It is clear that the various authorities that have been acting on different political options have probably missed some of the basic issues, but that does not mean that we still need to close our eyes in front of the obvious and just deal with what I said yesterday by ironing on the surface, because the competitiveness of Croatia is falling, it is undeniable. But also in this report on Croatia's decline in competitiveness, there is a certain answer to why Croatia's competitiveness is falling. Well then there is this graph and there is this table that simply says and contains the answer of entrepreneurs why it and what bothers them most in Croatia. Under point 1, this is low efficiency of public administration, access to sources of funding, restrictive labour legislation, tax rates and so on, tax regulations, crime and fraud, etc. So it makes sense to me that after a long period of time, once we begin all together what these entrepreneurs say, what bothers them, and to focus on removing what bothers them. A little investment from Croatia went away, regardless of evidence of scientific or anecdotal evidence, because their incentives were not good. But many have gone because of the ineffectiveness of the public administration, because of the complexity of procedures, the complexity of procedures, etc., etc. Well, the Deputy Prime Minister Cacic himself said an interesting thing today. He says, quote: here I gather eight ministers and then I ask how the project is going, he says it's not going. So political furniture has changed, political leadership is new, and Mr. Cacic notices it is not going. So, the government itself understands that the problem is elsewhere, not necessarily in these financial incentives, and just such things as the effectiveness of public administration requires one tenacity, requires one consistency in policymaking, which will then promote both the principle of responsibility and public administration and some rewarding towards the effects of work and some stability of the public administration, and yet it is contrary to some of the moves made at the beginning of the term of office of this government. So I would actually conclude my debate again with the proposal and the commitment that, given the length, depth and severity of the crisis facing Croatia, focus on those things that are important, which are at the heart of the problem, because solving only the surface of the forms, allowing society to now start 10 kunas, but without having to solve the things that refuse essentially to open up society to enter a business venture by introducing really generous financial incentives for new jobs, for investment, but without helping the investor to achieve this ultimate goal. I don't think that what's really going to happen is at least what the proposings want the way I understand it, but I think what's basically what everyone in Croatia's public business is about, no matter which party they belong to, which is that we're getting out of the crisis a little bit. Because on the one hand, we have measures that are an integral part and this law that everybody understands doesn't really hit the point of the problem. On the other hand, we have a series of measures that we have talked about today, which are taken by the government that are essentially making the situation worse, worsening the entrepreneurship climate and, therefore, we need not be surprised why all economic trends are negative and continue their negative course. And yesterday I said, those data that are available for the third quarter so that it might happen with high probability that even in the third quarter, the economic downturn continues. Therefore, as acceptable as this proposal may be, as encouraging as possible for the many problems the investor faces, the entrepreneur faces this, I fear, will not bring any significant advance. If it is important to address important issues and important investment barriers it is important that no state investment is going to take place, it is important that private investment is stagnated, and all these problems will also be faced by these European funds investments. Because we've spent a lot of words on statistical, administrative regions, divisions. It's all very important. But these projects will have to be implemented and completed within three years. If we do not remove the essential obstacles to investment, no matter how and in which regions Croatia is divided, European funds will not be used satisfactorily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14690	Thank you very much. At the presentation of distinguished MPs Martina Dalic, we have one replica, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Martina Dalic. I listened carefully to your presentation and what you said about yesterday's Law on the draft company for 11 and 10 kuna, respectively. There we also agreed on inefficient or slow public administrations as well as on the actual implementation of this law if it clearly wins, and I do not doubt most of them in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, it also associated me to somehow remember this Hanžekovic Memorial where it runs 110 meters with groins. So these 50,000 euros but with much more obstacles for those who will appear as candidates for using these funds than they do in a 110m-problem race with obstacles. We ask ourselves, obviously, both you and I, how many years and how many years will the government come and pass to finally form and that it can finally be said that our public administration is effective, effective. But it really looks like a lot more water will flow through Sava as long as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14692	The replica will be answered by the distinguished representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14693	Yeah, that's right, you're right. You asked the question of how many years will pass and how much water will pass, or how many other ways can it be said that the Government will change with different political orientations and that these problems will begin to resolve. That is why I think it is precisely a question of how the state administration works, how local self-government works, coordination and in a certain way of harmonising what is happening at the level of local self-government and what the state objectives are the central issue of Croatian development, and that this should be seriously discussed both in the Parliament and focus its energy on it. So let me personally say the diction, way of debate and the tone of debate that we have seen in this House for the past two days, and especially in the current hour it does not contribute. Because the question, for example, is the effectiveness of the public administration, how it is achieved and how it is maintained stretches and transfers through the mandate of different governments. And it is one of the questions that certain minimum standards and minimum criteria need to be reached at political level. But it's hard to get to them if you talk in this House the way you talked two days ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14694	The next individual debate will be the respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the very law and essence of the law on behalf of the CNS, a colleague of Natalija Martincevic spoke, and I would welcome this law that I consider to be one of the important instruments that, one of the instruments that will enable the development of the economy, will talk in a slightly different way. The answer to the question about the role of the state is in principle very simple. The role of the state is to make life simpler, better quality, safer and happier for its citizens. However, state leadership is an extremely demanding and complex job which, apart from the mandate, is obtained from citizens must also be based on knowledge, competence. In addition, state leadership must also be based on vision, creativity, certainly on ethical principles, and on the strong energy that is necessary in the desire to realize programmes, projects for so-called projects. the general good, i.e. through very complex processes, through numerous institutions, to make life safe, simple, quality and happy for citizens. Running a state is an extremely demanding and complex job. One of the absolute preconditions for the state to perform its function is the arrangement i.e. A state-of-the-art. Today's government is determined and today's coalition is determined to regulate the state. And there are a number of areas that need to be arranged, and it takes time, unfortunately. In the area of economy, one of the most important segments is investment. This bill is one of the important instruments in a strong boost for the economy. I am personally a true advocate of private entrepreneurship and as little as possible to any share of the state in entrepreneurship. The state is a bad master. This is especially true in Croatia, and experiences have been almost centuries. This bill is one of the measures that encourages private entrepreneurship, which I hope will soon significantly exceed the state. Private entrepreneurship is important, it is important that private entrepreneurship prevails over state entrepreneurship. And now, in the end, a few words about what it is like to call an entrepreneurial climate in Croatia. I think it is necessary to promote a positive private entrepreneurship and a variety of things, I would say to all possible measures and tools to help living entrepreneurs to make their work as efficient, quality and to the satisfaction of all participants, from entrepreneurs and workers to society at all. That's what she's responsible for, and that's the job of the state. The job of the state is to encourage citizens to encourage and move into the world of private entrepreneurship. This is also done by the state through a variety of incentive programmes, projects, regulations, liberations. But on a much wider spectrum of society is the rise and promotion of so-called. positive entrepreneurial climates. Entrepreneurship is essentially an indescribably exciting, potential, and intellectually challenging job. It is also a job that brings a person a sense of self - respect and general social value. And every private enterprise is the only area where a man can truly be legally enriched. Only under normal circumstances can private entrepreneurship become a materially wealthy person. And the wealth of an individual entrepreneur is the goodness and grace of an entire society. I also believe that the goal of a good, healthy and positive society must be as many rich citizens as possible. And that should encourage everyone and politics and politicians at all levels and all the media, simply everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14696	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14697	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Blazekovic, made a claim that I disagree with, and that claim reads, "The state is a bad master." The state is a bad master where bad authority is. The state is a bad master in those situations when the government in that country forms public enterprises in a way that public companies' administrations are obedient to them, not those people who are experts in the areas to be dealt with. A series of cases in countries where capitalism has not since the 1990s as in Croatia but hundreds of years where it has been proven that the state is well managed by public companies, state companies. I don't know why a Deutsche Telekom who's been run by the state, what makes it work well, does it work well? Why are state-owned companies in Scandinavian countries doing great? Because they're good governments, because governments don't put you and don't take you as the only criterion, for the sole testimony of the party's membership card on the government. So the false claim is that the state is a bad master. The state is a bad master when they are bad directors, and it is a great master when directors, i.e. management, managers in state-owned companies are appointed according to the knowledge criteria. How can a man who knows how to work badly in a state-owned company? Certainly not. Or how does a man who works badly in a state-owned company when he comes to a private company do a great job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14698	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14699	I should go into a longer debate about where, who, why and how in the Western democracies where certain state-owned companies operate, and about the companies I'm talking about and the situation I'm talking about is Croatia and its experience from 1945 to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14700	Thank you very much. The next replica of the distinguished representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14701	Thank you very much. The country's bad lord - it's a fleet of liberal capitalism that's brought us here as far as we've come. As counterpart Vuksic stated in his replica, it does not have to be quite certain that the state is a bad master and cited examples. So here we are witnessing that the changes, so those that should have been better or lead to better governance in state-owned companies, say HEP, will lead to improved work, reduced crime and all the things that burdened HEP not to say since the Ants and Buljubasic and all others, but here we are witnessing that despite the full state register or treasury, in addition to the good charge of the state budget, there is electricity accumulates, the price of electricity accumulates by 37%. What's the matter? Furthermore, if I heard correctly, you said that this law would help living entrepreneurs. This adjective I am really interested in whether it is a synonym for surviving entrepreneurs or whether there are other entrepreneurs who are in contrast with the living?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14702	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14703	We will talk very much about state entrepreneurship over the past few years, and at least I will often report and express my beliefs and views, and this for the sake of the public, so that there is no confusion and good listen to it, and exactly what anyone is saying I will read once again what I was saying, and that is what I think is necessary to positively encourage private entrepreneurship and to say to all the possible measures and tools to help living entrepreneurs to make their work more efficient, to the satisfaction of all participants from entrepreneurs, workers to society at all, and then I continued to continue and then I told the job of the state and to encourage citizens to encourage private citizens and to move into the world of private entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14704	Thank you very much. The next debate will be her respected representative, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14705	Your Honor, Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So we've heard a lot about this law, of course, and we'll hear about it, but what's crucial is that it shows and proves a completely different relationship between the Ministry of Economy and this government towards entrepreneurs. And finally what everyone expected, and it's an entrepreneurial climate and being a friend and partner to investors. This law of course, we had many laws that were good but were not implemented so we had no effect so it was also made in a package of instruments measures to be enforceable and to be available to everyone at the right time. What has not been noticed in the debate so far is that this law, once it is published in the National Journal, will be applied immediately and can be applied by those who are now going into ongoing investment. They will not be able to benefit from the part that they have done received invoices for certain works in the investment but for everything they continue to do and upgrade in their investment will be part of this law, will be part of this project and will be stimulated in the way this law has been defined. And it is important and crucial because this law comes into force immediately and those already in the investment body can even apply and engage. This is what is important in life, it is the policy of the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on real economy, an economy that absorbs all the problems that exist today in the economy and in society. Investment and competitiveness centre, HAMAG investments, guarantees, HBOR, everything is rounded up. The service of government agencies, the ministries are absolutely available to track investors and to solve all the problems that the colleague referred to when she listed all the negativity that led us to the situation that we are most competitive or among the most competitive countries in the world. Entrepreneurs are the backbone of the economy, this government recognizes clearly but other than recognising what is most important to this government she knows in what way and how she reacts. The very fact that they are also encouraging micro-enterprises to invest more than 50,000 euros, that their tax profits are reduced by 50% in five years and if they employ at least three people is something we haven't had so far and something that really ensures that all of them and the smallest entrepreneurs can join the project. I'll remind you in 6 months this year 34.7% of investments were invested by small entrepreneurs. Small entrepreneurs who employ 405,000 workers or 48% of total employees in production or the non-public sector. Their total income is 31.3%, that's in 6 months. These are just indicators of how much this government is turning to not only foreign investments that are welcome, both through the maintenance of ratings and through these laws, it will prove very quickly that we have become a competitive country because they will launch investments. But what is crucial is the domestic economy of small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of this country, they are the ones who have to start investments. And therefore, this law and all the measures and instruments that exist do not forget HBOR's 1% loans are those that will ensure the possibility of moving quickly through private investment independently of the public sector and energy needs and other railway segments etc., etc. This law ensures that, for larger investments, domestic and foreign, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can adopt a regulation that ensures that the Government declares a project of national interest in order to speed up all those barriers that we all know well that are listed on a non-stop basis and speak if it is crucial that the project dynamicises absolute national interest and national development. What is important to highlight, and it is related to investment incentives 18% is the unemployment rate in Croatia, 13 Croatian counties are above 18%, some are even at 32.2%. And this is another additional indicator of how much employment has been taken into account, about the equivalence of development and help of all those found in this situation we know not only because of the general crisis but also because of the inability of the former government. And a few words about the rating that was mentioned several times in the debates. What does the rating of Croatia mean by retention or improvement? It is not just the trust of some foreign agencies or the support of foreign governments or the EU. This is a clear indication that the government's policy is clear, determined, concrete. Keeping the ratings means that our price of capital, the price of interest will not rise but may fall. It assures us that life does not directly cost us all entrepreneurs and citizens and the state and provides us with this space so that we can really implement this law immediately as I said when it comes out in the National Journal and those already in the investment. VAT is not a direct cost to companies, VAT is a value added tax, to remind you, and what this government has already done to reduce the burdens or direct costs to entrepreneurs 0.5% of the forest, 0.5% of the water and 50% of the prices have been reduced and 2% of the contribution to health. Let's not forget that. The dividend tax is also mentioned here. So clearly in every economic theory to invest, to invest the goal is to reduce the withdrawal of money from entrepreneurship, to reduce the withdrawal and storage of money into the bank, to save, and to invest in investment and development. The dividend tax is stimulating development, not sanctions against entrepreneurs. These are clean, clear and old economic measures. Of course, I support this law and I'm glad that most colleagues and clubs are the same attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14706	Thank you very much. This law will now be discussed by the honourable representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister with his associates. So I'll start my discussion with the quote of Article 6(8). I wanted to start with an assessment of the situation, but with the quote of this article I think I will offer an answer which is the biggest problem of Croatian entrepreneurs, because if you put 91 words in one sentence, put it on 10 lines and then ask the taxpayer to understand it, it goes back to that story about administrative obstacles. So I'll quote this article, and you listen and see if anyone understands what it looks like. Thus, it says: "If the amount of support is calculated as a process of eligible investment costs or eligible costs for the creation of new jobs represents a gross equivalent of 40%, or 50% of eligible investment costs for large entrepreneurs, increased by 10% of gross support equivalent in cases of investment by medium-sized entrepreneurs, or increased by 20% of gross support equivalent in cases of incentives for small entrepreneurs, and in line with State support maps, and represents the upper threshold of total cumulative support, i.e. the sum of the incentive measures provided by this law, including support from other sources, and in accordance with the rules on regional aid and regional support maps.". Now find me an existing and future entrepreneur, with all due respect, so you don't insult anyone who understands this, I take his hat off. And they should therefore, based on this, know what their support is and then and if you serve them afterwards that Croatia is divided into three statistical, not administrative, so that we don't turn out to know what it is, and at this point it's two, then take the problems that Croatian entrepreneurs are in. And that's the problem of Croatian entrepreneurs. Or we can go back to the site before. I would like to ask the representatives of the ministry what Croatian law, in which Croatian terminology, there is amortising property in Croatian. In what law there is and how an entrepreneur who manages double accounting under the Accounting Act, international accounting standards, will know what this amortising property is. Or, do we really want to help small entrepreneurs if we care whether a natural person i.e. The craftsman pays income tax or income tax. Because you know well that up to some amount of turnover, bonds can pay either income tax or profit tax, which they decide to pay. But above some amount they are obliged to run double accounting and pay a profit tax. Is that a discriminatory provision? So these two or three things clearly state what is the biggest problem of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, bureaucracy and administration. And what Dalic said, she neither begins with one government nor ends with one government. It's a continuing government struggle that wants to help entrepreneurs with this administration that exists, which writes and always asks where I am in the end. So if you cut off the regression of that administration, you cut off the Christmas card, if you announce that you're going to cut wages, then this sentence in the next law could have at least 120 words and be written on 12 lines. So that's one thing. However, in the assessment of the current situation here, the assessment is written that you could read to now take at least 10 European countries that are in a situation like Croatia or close and find a very similar explanation of the existing situation. However, the current situation in the Republic of Croatia is that for nine months or three quarters in a row, we have a negative trend, we have a decline in GDP, we have an increase in the number of unemployed, we have a decrease in the number of employees, we have a decrease in industrial production, we have a decrease in consumption, we have a reduction in exports, and that's an assessment of the situation. And that's why we're changing the existing law with a new law, to simply try to stop these trends, but then it should also be written somewhere in the light of this law, that this law is being passed because obviously that existing law that exists, we can't deny it that it doesn't exist, has not achieved the results that they wanted to achieve with them and definitely this law. And all of these laws before him confirm one fact, an economic theory that will be agreed by most economic analysts and economists is that tax incentives are not a condition and a prerequisite for someone to deal with some kind of activity, because in principle, it gets after a certain period. It is far more important that we allow these entrepreneurs to get credit, because if you have read the HBOR report, so if you have read the analysis of that model A, so A+ and model B and C then you have seen that the key model of the Croatian economy and Croatian entrepreneurship is the structure of the Croatian economy, the low capitalisation of companies that are simply unable to raise credit, are not able to obtain it and cannot automatically launch the activity. However, it is also not a fact and it is not an accurate statement that VAT is a neutral tax concerning entrepreneurs, it is simply not true, because when entrepreneurs sell or do some kind of service, when it comes to a final producer or a final buyer, 25% of VAT is accounted for. If this VAT is 8.7% higher than it was by the beginning of the year then the logical thing is that one number of people who needed a certain service and wanted to buy one product will not buy that product and will not buy that service and the logical reflection of that VAT rate increase is a reduction in spending in the Republic of Croatia, a reduction in spending in the Republic of Croatia. Or we can't say that for entrepreneurs, the neutral price increase is 20%, the electricity prices are 20%, the gas prices are 30%, the gas average is 25-30%, both at which point and at the end of the heat of 37%. It's all the cost of their business. Because look, you have, companies are the primary energy that use electricity and gas. Therefore, if these prices go up 20% he must calculate them in the price of the product and that price of the product goes up. So you add an 8.7% increase in VAT to this product price based on such an increase in price then you understand how this has a significant negative impact on the economy of those who are currently working. And these are facts that we simply must not ignore. In everything that we've all said here that we're going to support this bill and that it's good to be done, that some things have been modified, that some things have adapted to the moment we're in. But we can't just stare at these facts. Why? Because these facts I'm now talking about are suffocating and shutting down existing entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Every one of us lives in a real world. No one's separated from these people. And you see, friends, fellow neighbors, that every day one by one either fires workers or closes trades or businesses. And that's why this law and other laws should be the way they are. Tax policy. When I changed those tax laws, I said that changing VAT, changing income tax, introducing a dividend tax for a larger company in Zagreb means depending on whether there are 5 or 10 000 employees in the final, regardless of the reduction in the contribution of 2% is ultimately minus 200, 250 million kuna. Because when you take all those costs at which they had the right to refuse pre-tax, and they didn't refuse it, so that amount increased their practical expenditures. When you take the rate of VAT increase you had to raise the price or if you did not raise it then it goes on its own, to the cost of your own consumption. When you take a dividend tax and all other tax changes, then it is not encouraging tax measures but detimulative tax measures, not fiscal policy stability. Because you had a chance to hear today we want to have a real estate tax or a property tax, and tomorrow we won't have it. What do you think is neutral on the real estate market that is practically dead at this point in Croatia? It's not. Calling what counterpart Dalic today told entrepreneurs not to pay taxes is simply not true. I tell this House several times already that the average tax collection in Croatia has been reported and established, so what the taxpayers have reported and what the surveillance inspection has found in the past 8 years, not counting in 2009 which was a crisis is 98 and a half percent. I'll be done with that, Mr. Vice President. So, with that basis alone, no one can say that entrepreneurs in Croatia do not pay taxes. But with such a message and other messages, you can be sure that foreign investors will bypass Croatia, which is the worst thing that can happen to us because unfortunately, at this moment in Croatia, what counterpart Blažekovic is saying does not have enough fresh private capital to be an initiator of economic recovery. Because Croatia will not have a more significant economic recovery with investments that relate to the state budget and from state-owned companies that tomorrow someone will put into a consolidated state balance sheet, because then a colleague of Srdjana rating agency will say the state is too high in charge, you are too risky and I will take down your credit rating. And that's why the danger of investment from the state budget is what it is. We had such a model from 2004 to 2007, where economic growth was based on it. Simply, it is time for a new economic policy, it is time to remove the barriers to private capital and it is the only way for Croatia to recover economically.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14708	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representative Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14709	Dear counterpart Shuker, therefore, without investment in the public sector and without strong private sector investments, the Government of the Republic of Croatia managed to maintain a rating. This law and all that has been prepared and prepared will certainly create conditions for entrepreneurship to move forward, and that our credit rating cannot be kept but to move towards a better one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14710	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14711	My colleague Gjurkovic, I will tell you the only true truth. Croatia had to increase its credit rating at the time of the end of the negotiations and that is the fact and that is the truth that no one in Croatia can escape from. This same fish and similar ones have been blackmailing us for years with a credit rating and we have paid a relatively high interest rate because there is a danger when we end negotiations to join the European Union. Very interesting, that if they've put it as a problem for us for the past 4.5 years why the moment we finished negotiations didn't give us that as a bonus and increased our credit rating. It's your political mistake. You've bought the story that we need to keep credit ratings rather than raise our credit ratings. Because look, Slovenia has had a far larger credit rating than the Republic of Croatia and some other countries can look. Look where they are today and where Croatia is today. And that's true, and that's a fact, and don't get carried away with the conditional credit rating. What Fish wrote is very conditional, and you know well that we haven't finished negotiations. We didn't, because it's all ours to understand that it wouldn't turn out to be wrong. They're not done negotiating with the unions. The question is what happens to certain savings in the budget. The question is what will happen to health care, because you literally took 2 and a half billion kuna from health care. So it's all still a big question mark. But I repeat, a great injustice has been committed against Croatia, and perhaps there is a political error in these governments, because at the moment of the conclusion of the negotiations, we had to increase our credit rating. The safety factor or whatever you want to call it Croatia had between three and four, and the Slovenians and others who entered the European Union had 0.70 and that was 2 and a half percentage points higher than the interest rate we paid because we were in the negotiations phase. And that is a fact and it is true and should be told to the Croatian public. We did not have to cry in front of rating agencies, but we should have said if something had been minus in recent years, give us a fee if we have finished negotiations and have entered the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14712	Thank you very much. The next debate will be her distinguished representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14713	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's what I'm gonna say about the law, too. He's in line with his practice so far gone into emergency procedure. Of course, when he was brought to the government, he also had a strong media escort who I think was there in early August, screaming headlines "We will encourage every job with 9,000 euros". Of course it integrates everyone, including the entrepreneurs. And in a conversation with an entrepreneur I'm asking him here's a government going with new 9,000-euro measures for a new place. He tells me that we give these new entrepreneurs everything, and we peel us off to the end. The result of all this will be that there will be no new and neither will we. But here's what I'm going to do about the law itself, because this law is one specific part of how it's made up of nomotechnically. I have to admit I've seen a lot of laws so far, but such a nomotechnic rarely. This is the first law in which I see the legislator legalising the objective of this law, and Article 4 states: "The aim, i.e. the purpose of encouraging investment and promoting investment environment promotion, is to promote economic growth and the achievement of the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia, etc." We have a goal, of course, and we do not have criminal provisions, because what if this goal is not achieved through this law? Nothing like all the laws of boredom. I do not think that the first 5 articles should be fully in this law at all because they are already described in this introductory section which is the nomothechnic of every law that comes into this House. I think they were unnecessary and they brought nothing but the confusion caused by Article 6 in point 8. Of course there's more of these interesting words here, so I'm going to ask the esteemed deputy, but there isn't, to explain to me what that means, the grant support I have to pay back? Is this something new in Croatian legislation because when you give it back, it is normal that it should not be returned. What does that word ever do with that word of support? Was it enough to write just a word of support in case something went past the law to find a way to get it back? This is how you give the grant, and then you have to get her back in case you were guilty. And those words in this law are about 80 times as many as I've read. I don't know what that means in this form of law. The grant support that needs to be paid back. But well, I'm saying since this law was done by two ministries, it's possible that two ministers might have fallen out in that coordination. What I'm trying to say is I think it's quite important that the story of the division that we're seeing in here is clumsyly included, and the fact is that it's been quick with this law because we already have a correction through the amendments of one SDP agent, that's the story of a map of regional support that distinguishes three regions. The previous authorities when they brought in and started to tell the story of statistical regions first made preparations. This preparation was financed from pre-accession funds and this preparation lasted almost three years with a wide public debate. After three years, the first decision was also taken, obliging the only body that could have made such a decision, which is the State Statistics Office, which in 2007 makes a national classification of spatial units for statistics. So the only official document that was authorized to be adopted was the State Statistics Institute, and based on broad discussion and government decisions. After that, a map of regional support is adopted in 2008. 2010. A regional development strategy in this House where Croatia is divided into three statistical regions. After that, 2010, at the end of 2010. The Regional Development Act, which recognises three statistical regions. What do we have today? In what way have the decisions taken on two statistical regions been taken? Two ministers meet, sit down, talk, go to Brussels, come to Croatia and say two statistical regions today. And in all the documents, the only valid ones that are used to collect statistics, it's nothing insignificant, it's very important, because life is still going on today, and today there's support from all ministries being shared, and now I'm asking the government how we're going to calculate that gross equivalent of possible support in our statistical regions. It doesn't exist. We have a vacuum and a relationship between three and two statistical regions. And life goes on, by the end of the year it will be paid back. No official official document in this Croatian Parliament on the subject of two statistical regions. Is it serious, is that responsible to entrepreneurs about it let me say judge the public. We said in HDZ that we would support this law, I will personally support it. I think it's a good thing that here's finally tourism, even though I think it deserves corrections, here comes the deputy, so now I'm telling her again, she hasn't listened to what it means to get her back? But you'll tell me later. I'm glad that the segment of tourism entered this incentive, but I'm not glad that you've limited it to four stars or five stars or 4+ stars as I heard yesterday on the council board. I think it is a narrowing of the possibility that we do not have too many destinations on the Croatian coast and islands that can offer 4 stars or more in terms of accommodation facilities because we can make a hotel, a mini-hotel, a family hotel or a larger 4-star hotel at a destination, but if the service part and the content part of that destination is not adapted to such a tourist structure, people who come to Croatia will come once and next year they are not there. And that's why I think it's good that 3 stars are also part that can be stimulated because today that makes 90% of Croatian accommodation capacities. And there's only real support here. I don't think we're gonna do anything with these four stars. And what's the reason why I think that? Is the fact that today was challenged by the first Deputy Prime Minister who said that we had so far had no incentive measures in tourism. We had the first and most successful program, and that's so-called. an incentive for success, which in the 10 years spent with only 300 million kuna subsidies from the state budget opened 3,700 jobs, created 15 000 new accommodation units and over 500 category facilities 3, 4 and 5 stars in terms of houses, hotels, apartments and camps. The programme was unfortunately interrupted for lack of subsidies from the Ministry of Tourism, and I think it is the only quality shift that has happened right in tourism and that this programme should be rehabilitated because I say with only 300 million kunas open over 3700 jobs, and the rest was investment private capital. Why am I still skeptical of this law? We see that it is followed by only 15 million kuna in this year for these grants and when you turn it into jobs and some average of 6,000 euros let's say from these 9, 6 and 3 thousands and divide it into three, that's an average of 6 thousand euros you can subsidize or help 300 jobs in this year. What's that in the number we have here for the 9th month 301 thousand 583 unemployed at the end of the 8th month 2012. Years. I think regardless of how much we are all for measures that Croatian businessmen can come up with some opportunity to start their business to make something that regardless of all the laws that we have so far and have shown Minister Mrsic's actions that the more we see unemployment growing, unfortunately after this law in 2012 will certainly be the number that we had at the end of the 12 months last year and there were 319 thousand at the end of this year being over 330 and 40 thousand at the Employment Office. Here I think, in a short time, I have tried to say what is basic and that no matter what, we will support this law, but I don't think it's done, and I don't think it's done to solve what's most important because it's possible that, with all these measures that there's a lot of abuse going on, it's going to be hard to go back to what's most of it ends up in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14714	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anna Lovrin's distinguished representative will be replicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14715	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Boric, you mentioned the nomoch, so I'd like to add something to that. Namely, you said you would support this law and the clubs have declared that this law will support here as said by the SDP club president as an attempt to do something to change the economic picture in Croatia. But since we're going to support the adoption of this law, then we should really pass a law that is enforceable. Let the Deputy Minister correct me if I have wrong, but this basic text of the law in Article 8 when he talks about maximum support in the regions is actually well said because he has come from the decision of the regional support map that is now in force. I took a break from the People's Newspaper and found nowhere to find a new decision was made on a map of regional support. Therefore, the law and this amendment do not refer to the act as it is clearly not yet available. As Minister Maras said he would support the amendment, the government will support MP Pandek's amendment, and he is only calling for a map of regional support by not citing either the number or the act or the date since then which one is not known. The existing one is being transferred. However, on today and probably on the date of adoption of this law, the decision on the 2007 regional support map is in force, which calls for the national classification of spatial units for statistics and is called for by three spatial units. In the meantime, a new national classification has been adopted that determines two units at the second level, so two statistical regions but, accordingly, no resulting act or decision on regional support cards has been taken. Therefore, it is not known on which map if this amendment is accepted which card will be, and if it is the only possible and that is the existing one, it will be called for the abolished classification of units for statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14716	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14717	Thank you very much. I think that, more or less, me and Mrs. Lovrin have explained what this is all about and of course it now seems clearly unorganized and unprepared to everyone. Because the fact is that we still officially have three statistical regions and that it will take a long time for it to be sharpened through the necessary acts. However, this act has already deregated everything else we have previously adopted. But I would also like to add that when I have a little more time, what I may have forgotten to say is that regardless of all the laws we have so far, the facts are quite the opposite, and the basic problem is somewhere down on the ground, they are units of local self-government and no matter what kind of acts we have brought here and the laws and incentives and a wide range of opportunities for entrepreneurs we have a brake down on local self-government units, let no offense to the mayors and commissioners, but there are examples I'm going to tell you an example from my island where the simple city council makes a decision that you can't make an economic facility more than 300 square meters, so now you start producing any economic activity and on the basis of all the laws that we have so far. It's just an impossible mission. I agree with the fact that we can have a wide range of opportunities, but if this problem does not begin to be solved from the bottom level from the base we will have a lot of departures as the last departure to Labin to try to persuade local self-government units to accept investments to force them to do so and the results will be in 5, 10 or 15 years, and I'm afraid it will be too late then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14718	Thank you very much. Now we will be introduced to the debate by the distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister. Today, I followed closely the presentation of the first Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Cacic and Minister Maras, and Mr. Cacic said, among other things, we invited all relevant investors and entities, and this is not happening to increase investment. I've been talking, and I've just finished some irrigation meetings, and I need to step up cooperation towards investment centres, innovations. You know, we have two 100 million-dollar investment from Pliva and it's been standing, standing, standing and standing for nine months now. And then Minister Maras added that this law would dramatically improve the situation in investment, I guess. We've been detiming people with investments and they're just saving. In his exposé, this was realistically and objectively shown by Mr. Domagoj Milosevic, who said that the global crisis that hit the Republic of Croatia is also that no one invests in the fall of competitiveness but that we should also think about those who are there to survive. He also said that we are about to enter the EU and that we need to be careful, or that we are going to feel a significant outflow of highly educated people, and I think it will be best felt by the Minister of Health Ostojic. The improvement of the investment environment in the Republic of Croatia does not only contribute certain legislative solutions with all incentives and financial measures, i.e. the so-called Normative optimism. We think that we will solve everything with certain legal solutions and that the obstacle to investment, certain legal solutions, and we often change them ad hoc. On the contrary, this legal uncertainty, non-functioning and the slowness of the judiciary, and frequent and unpredictable changes in the tax system and tax policy, which are sometimes made by government officials, have contributed to the negative investment environment. These actually government decisions are sometimes related to retroactive application. Just remember the extra tax on dividends that send very negative messages to potential investors for the conditions under which they would go into certain investment projects, and in investment, we all know that they go for capital, because of profits. That is the logic of capital, as little invested as possible, and as much profit as possible. There is no guarantee to investors that the conditions under which they have gone into certain investment projects and have ended and have begun to make a certain profit by respecting all the regulations of the Republic of Croatia that one day, since they have become rich, they have not become compossible to someone and that some future tax returns are being made through the so-called so-called. Added to the taxation of the rich does not take the total profit they made through such an investment. It is a natural fear of investors because this has already been seen in the Republic of Croatia. Besides, it's not an unknown fact. You are familiar with all the meetings with both the owners in the Republic of Croatia and those from abroad. That is also what the studies of respectable international institutions tell you. This is not just said to you in the government, we are also told by parliamentary representatives who meet with potential investors almost daily and who, given the current conditions and announcements of changes in terms of income taxing, additional taxation of paid profits, continued speculation about the property tax law, or how Minister Linic likes to say this to the Real estate law, as if it changes something important. So please tell me, which normal investor is going to come to a country where tax laws are constantly changing, new tax rates are being introduced and their capital is being invested. It can only be that dubious capital by logic. In such conditions, those who have capital are the safest to keep their money in the bank because the interest tax nobody mentions. However, government and government officials categorically reject the possible introduction of interest taxes, which is not good. And apparently, those who have capital are the safest ones to invest money in the bank. This isn't bank advertising, it's what I least want, and now I'm thinking about investors. Given the interest rate policy in Croatia, it is only the safest. They are guaranteed such a profit, and investment in any investment carries great risks and those risks that I was talking about here in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14720	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14721	Representative Babić, in the sea of taxes that have been introduced here you are now finally calling for a interest tax on savings deposits. Wait until the real estate tax is passed, while real estate is sold out and real estate money is stored in banks, interest taxes will also come on savings deposits. But don't call him, we already have enough taxes. There's no longer anything taxed, yet to call interest taxes. He'll come, unfortunately he'll come, but I don't think we need to call him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14722	Thank you very much. The next debate is Ms. Branko Juričev-Martinchev's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after more than eight months of work by this government and this House, we can finally say that we have in our hands one concrete law that should trigger investments and the long-awaited investment boom of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Radiir Cacic. I'd like to commend the encouraging measures that involved the little ones, so to speak. micro-entrepreneurs, including investment projects and strengthening competitiveness and tourism activities, investment in hotels, tourist resorts, camps, health, congress, nautical or cultural tourism. However, you write that this law will provide, among other things, the necessary legal framework for the balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia. I would agree with everything that counterpart Boric and colleague Lovrin said, but allow only one sentence. It's funny that in August, when you delivered this law to the Parliament, you proposed three, a month later, two regions now, and maybe in October we'll all be one region. I'd like to say more about article 9 and employment. This law should provide the necessary framework for greater employment and certainly will allow for new employment. In the first place, architects, builders, electricians, plumbers, and then production and tourist workers will be employed. However, when adopting this law, they should not be too euphoric because they need to see what will remain of it in a few years. This law obliges investors who invest up to a million euros to reduce the profit tax rate by 50% to 10 years, subject to the creation of only 5 new jobs. For investments from 1 to 3m euros, a drop from 75% to 10 years for only 10 jobs. Even a 100% tax exemption for over 3m euros in investment, again for a 10-year period for 15 jobs. We even commit ourselves to tax incentives and to those who will not open new jobs. This law enables a large investment boom now and immediately, even employment, and then. We need to know that today 305,000 685 are unemployed. Even in August, during the tourist season, the number of newly registered people was almost 3,000 more than the number of employees in the same month. The number of unemployed was 5.7% higher than in August last year, although an active employment policy employs 21,000 people. That's why I would like to have Mr. Maras, with the first Deputy Prime Minister, at least in those first hours, Mr. Cacic and Mr. Mr. Mrssic's entrepreneurship and crafts minister. Because this law obliges us. What happens next year? Once acquired right, we must no longer take away the investor. It is important to know that if this law is adopted that, then, for all these investors, there must be no change. We now undertake to release them in a 100% profit tax amount for the next 10 years, and to remind the profit tax is the income and expenditure difference and many successful entrepreneurs in order to avoid paying taxes have increased their expenditures or better say invested, spent. Now they won't do it when the state releases them from that tax. In addition, we will be left out of profit tax revenue, some other income will be missing on some other grounds. In 10 years for tax incentives, we will be denied profit tax, and because of this income shortage, we will have only 5, 10 or 15 more employees, and we could have more. The provisions of this Article 9 tax incentives are not the content of the provisions of the European Union rules, which means that we can create them ourselves. And so, although it says that the funds needed for the implementation of this law are secured in the state budget in 2012 amounting to 15 million kuna, I think it is much more important to see which amount we will need in the 2013 budgets, 14 and 10 and more years, given that incentives for current investments will have financial effects on the budgets and those years. Whether these promises today are going to be able to follow in 10 years, and in this form, I think we're leaving obligations to some future generations. Finally, it is very well imagined to remove administrative obstacles to the timely implementation of the investment project within 45 days. The most common obstacles are spatial and urban plans, and for their amendment local self-government according to the Public Procurement Act only for tendering and contracting on the assumption that the funds provided for in the budget are more than 45 days. Whether or not these investments will be subject to some other law, or those deadlines will be just a letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14724	Thank you very much. The next 10 minutes of the law will be discussed, the proposal will be discussed by distinguished MP Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister. Well, in my debate, I'll mostly focus on what's not settled by this law. In any part, it's not in the works, the circles and the scope of this law. I therefore think that, although the intention and text of the law is adapted to the need to encourage investment in the Republic of Croatia, without a regulated legal framework throughout the country, this law may remain a dead letter on paper especially if it comes to greenfield investments. I mean, under this regulated legal framework in Croatia, I mean all those assumptions that enable investment to be encouraged, quick investment that, if not arranged in any case, detimise the investor and any investment. In fact, it's about unsettled cadastrian and land books. It is known that 90% of the Republic of Croatia is mostly based on a catastrian measurement that was made in the first half of 19. For centuries, a land book, i.e. a gruntovnica, has been produced on the basis of this geodetic measurement. And that is to the greatest extent an obstacle not only to foreign investors and investment made by foreign investors. It is also an obstacle to domestic investors, which is practically an obstacle when many Croatian citizens want to build their own housing facilities. According to the dynamics that have taken a new measure in the Republic of Croatia since the creation of an independent Croatia, it would take about 200 more years to carry out a new geodetic measurement and a real estate cadastre. Because in Croatia there are 3 and a half thousand catastrian municipalities, and in the past 23 years only 3% and 100 catastrian municipalities have made new geodetic measurements, a new land book has been created, which is a very, very big obstacle to any more serious investment, or any greenfield investment. In addition, there are also a number of unsettled spatial plans at the level of units of local self-government, and then clearly along with the unsettled land book, along with the unsettled cadastre, with unscheduled spatial plans it is difficult to expect a major investment momentum in the Republic of Croatia. What I also want to say is that in the last term we passed a law on tourist land. The law was also one of the legal acts that should encourage the investment of existing hotel houses on land currently used. And I ask myself a question to us, and primarily the Ministry of Tourism and AUDIO whether and to what extent this law is implemented, when it will begin by concessioning tourist land for hotel houses. And is this government still standing by that law because these days we have heard that the Ministry of Tourism is also thinking about changing that law in a way that tourist land that was to go according to the existing law should have been concessioned, that it is seriously considering selling the most valuable building land in the Republic of Croatia to hotel owners, hotel owners, hotel facilities that are, or tourist facilities that are on the coast. We've already heard something about this, and I don't think that there's much more investment in the area, in the most valuable area, which is coastal land that usually makes up tourism land where 90% of Croatian tourism happens. But what I also want to say is that I said this morning in a replica to Mr. Minister that the fall in economic activity in Croatia is largely conditioned and with the absence of any investment, especially those investments that have already been opened by some at a very high stage of realization. Well then, it certainly contributes to further collapse of the Croatian economy, primarily in the construction sector. For Dubrovnik-Neretva County alone, I have listed several projects such as the Kupari project, which is very closely linked to what I was just saying about the Law on Tourism Land and the implementation of the Law on Tourism Land. I was saying that the Ministry of Environment and Nature has stopped the construction of the County Waste Management Centre, although in the negotiations on the closure of the Chapter – Okoš we have accepted the obligation to close all open dumps in 2018, build county, or regional waste management centres in Dubrovnik-Neretva County we do not know which and in what way the Government will continue with the activities to enable waste disposal in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Furthermore, I also mentioned the highway to the record. It is incomprehensible to me that here is the highway that was supposed to be finished before the season of 2012 according to the state of highway work to Ploč will not be completed until the beginning of next season and I do not know how the Government intends to join Croatia's southern highway network in Croatia. I mentioned this morning and the Peljek Bridge, then the minister replicated to me how that bridge was opened five times. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister if he can deliver me the dates of those five openings of the Peljevo Bridge and I'd be very interested in it alive, but what I really don't know at this point is what the government's position is when it comes to the Peljega Bridge. Is the government really thinking of working the Pelješki Bridge, or is this study that should be financed from the EU by 200 thousand euros a justification for the absolute giving up of the Peljega Bridge? It is not said that the saying is not said, it is not said that the Pelješki bridge will be built but depends on a study that should indicate whether the Pelješki Bridge is more justified or more justified to build a corridor through the area, through the space of Neuma. If it had been before the construction of the Zagreb-Split highway, or before the construction of the highway to Osijek, according to Djakov, it had been built towards Sisak or any Croatian city connected to the highway network, no study would have shown the justification of any highway construction because no road construction investment can be measured only by its justification on the basis of traffic on that road. The highway and all public infrastructure works in their complexity encourage all possible economic branches and Croatia would not be a leader in the Mediterranean when it comes to the tourist season if there were no such construction of highways, and it was to wait for the justification shown by the study and the highways would never be built. It is up to us in Croatian politics, in the Croatian government to tell us whether we will connect the southernmost Croatian bridge through our own territory or whether we will be relying forever on corridors, roads passing through foreign states. And here yesterday, in Brussels, it seems to me that our foreign minister held talks with Foreign Minister Lagumdzija BiH in which the issue of the Pelješko Bridge was reopened whether and when Croatia negotiated with BiH on the Pelješko Bridge, and then in one of the central diaries last night, it was said that the ministry did not have any agreements in the archives with the neighbouring state. So here I want to make it clear to the minister that he has the case in the ministry, he has this harmonised note with BiH, there's class 080-01/06-01/22 hours. 530-01-06-1 of 15 February 2006. In this particular case, there is total correspondence, records from all the meetings that we held with the neighbouring country and with which we have identified all the essential elements of the Peljega Bridge. So I'm surprised that now here we are talking again about something that has already been agreed, determined, and I'm sure the neighbouring state will not deviate from what was signed several years ago. So I'm going to end up, no investments, no spatial plans, no catastras, no land book, these laws are welcome, but when it comes to greenfield investments, it's going to be a dead letter on paper. In particular, it will remain a dead letter on paper where there is already a great interest, and these are tourist plots that are not finished until the end, which are not arranged, which are not concessioned and which do not prevent investment in this most important, or most valuable space in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14726	Thank you very much. Obviously, this presentation of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić has given us great interest because we have several replicas. He is the first to represent a respected representative of Mladen Marelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14727	... And I was encouraged by the presentation of my colleagues, Bačić. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] I think someone forgets who was in power for eight years, was in the executive power. I have to remind him because I feel like he's forgetting something fast. If we remember that the Peljek Bridge, which has a lot of stories about it, started Ivo Strlje and the posters were long ago when they made fun of us with those posters on it was Ivo Mayor who connected. That's when HDZ and his partners made fun of it. And if it wasn't for that contract that started working, the value of the bridge was 945 million 383 thousand and 829 kuna. To date, i.e. by 5.06.2010, when HDZ closed the bridge construction, investment was made by 3.85%. It means 3.85% of construction works, or 75 million construction works. To make it even better for the consortium that was doing these works, they asked for the compensation of 119 million. So it won't be all the talk of our county's connection. I can tell you that at the last assembly I asked the mayor what project of roads, highways, fast roads we have today in the county? He answered I don't know, it's not my job. So does one mayor and so do colleagues because no company project in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County highway of the fast road or anything that has not been done so that no meter has been designed or any technical documentation is available. Here's the situation on that part today. [[Intruder: Time.]] And that this second condition that he was talking about the ferry was trying to bring it down but it didn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14728	The esteemed representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I was expecting Mr. Marelić to replicate to me, so I'd be happy to answer. HDZ has passed its work well or badly on two tests in 2007 and 2011 so Croatian citizens have said what they thought and it cannot be an excuse for you in the 9th or 10th month of the government's behaviour that you are still dragging your failures through the work of the Croatian government led by HDZ. As for the initiator about building the bridge then, Mr. Marelic, I will remind you that the Croatian Assembly has adopted the Strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia in 1999 and already in that time there is a little strategy and then HDZ was also in power when the strategy was adopted, and the strategy was made for two years so that in 1998 in the Croatian Parliament and there I will take out a stenogram from the session of the Croatian Parliament when Mr. Luka Bebić proposed building the bridge and then there were certain problems in the HDZ club itself. The third thing, it's not true that 30, 40 million was spent. That's what only people who don't know a clue have to say about the bridge. 330 million kuna was invested in the bridge, 15% of investments were invested on geomechanical measurements, research on the area where the bridge would be built. It was invested in giving advances to the Croatian consortium, it was further invested in making an environmental impact study, it was invested on the entire project of documentation and you will agree because the most demanding project in the Republic of Croatia. We are... financing for 2012 forecasted in the first 4 months 75 million kuna, which for the whole year amounted to 330 million kuna. Croatian roads have that money and they have no place to spend and then they delivered it to ZUC by agreement because the County Road Administration can spend those funds because they have projects and unfortunately Croatian roads and money had no place to spend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14730	Thank you very much. The next call came the distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bacic, you told him that construction of the highway led to the great economic development of the Croatian south, which is true and I am a witness. But do you know that this year, there are less than 400,000 cars on the highways of the Republic of Croatia and we boast of the good tourist season. For what? There has been an increase in toll, and thus we have made a stop to economic development and certainly new investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14732	The replica will again be answered by the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14733	Thank you, Mr. Granny. This is what I said in my opening statement that Croatian highways were practically the main Croatian export product because they made it possible for Croatia to have a record tourist season one after another for years. We should primarily thank the construction of highway networks in the Republic of Croatia and it is not good that in times when the Croatian government does not have the possibility of investing in other projects, it has not continued to build highways. For example, we today in Dubrovnik-Neretva County do not have a millimeter of highways and there is complete documentation, there is also a path established in the county spatial plan to build a highway from Doli towards Osovnik and thus finally and Dubrovnik will be able to be connected to the highway network. Therefore, if they expected to study the justification of building the facility or support the construction of highways, no highways would be built in Croatia. Therefore, even today in these times of crisis and recession such great public works would certainly encourage and save Croatian construction that is at present truly on its knees where more than 40,000 construction workers have lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14734	Thank you very much. The next line has a distinguished representative, Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague Bacic to confirm what he said and to supplement it a little bit and to say why it was then agreed and signed with BiH on the side of the 55m bridge. Of course, the lower the bridge, the lower the price. And it was possible for him to be 20 metres tall like this or 30, but BiH has the right under the International Law of the Sea so-called. the harmless passage from Neum from that aquarium they want to go to the open sea they land over which... they must pass must provide them with so-called. the right of safe passage. In this regard, we spoke with the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the BiH Council of Ministers formed an expert group with our expert group, in which Bacic and some other fellow experts have explored it. And what could have been agreed on and what the BiH side agreed to was 55m high because they said it satisfied them then that they could go inside I don't know about foreign warships, cruisers, etc. and from there that height of 55 meters and it's signed and that document exists and if it succeeds in the negotiations that clearly follow that height to lower the diaphragm. I'll be the first to support it because then the price of the bridge will certainly be lower because then it's a lighter foundation, etc., etc. But the fact is that what we could do and what BiH's side listed is the height of the 50m bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14736	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's right, fellow Kalmeta. All of what we are saying here today is in the motion for a resolution on the principles of transport integration of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County as a function of establishing constitutional equality for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But unfortunately in the agenda so far, it's supposed to be the 60th of the 65th. It will, as other points come, be moved so that perhaps sooner to reward the Peljek Bridge than we will discuss. But speaking of the Peljesk Bridge and the eight years of HDZ rule, then I must say that the Pelješki bridge in construction terms is one of the most demanding investments ever designed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. When the bridge was built more seriously in 2004 there was no... solution or anything. We, mentioned earlier by Mr Kalmet, on December 7, 2006 after a year of negotiations with BiH, have just established the basic parameters of the bridge, which is its height of 55 meters and 200 metres of the breadth of the waterway that would ensure BiH's safe passage to/from the port of Neum. Therefore, only 2006 could one be considered at the end of 2006 to build the Peljega Bridge more seriously, after which one solution was made, based on it the Environmental Impact Study together with the Bosnian side due to the cross-border impact of building such a large building. After that, when the implementation project was established, a study of the justification for the construction of the Peljega Bridge, after which the competition was completed, and when all this was completed, 5.5 full years from the first moment when the first idea solution was made. So, as someone was building, for 8 years it was in power and failed to build a bridge, you should know what it means to prepare such a huge investment in construction terms, not to say how much time was spent to examine the foundation of the bridge given the complexity of the seabed in that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14738	Thank you very much. The next line has a distinguished representative, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14739	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me we're a little bit, and if it's connected to this agenda point, but we went to the Peljev Bridge a little bit, so it's clear that it's very important, too. What Mr. Bačić said was that the unsettled cadastre and grantovnica is one of the main causes and possible brakes of the implementation of this law is quite true. But when this government formed, it first rewritten European investment intentions and investments in rebuilding the facades of buildings with energy, in terms of energy-saving buildings. This has been said in Europe for a year, two days, no newspaper is or is something this government has invented of itself and objects in energy. So this is also said in the European Parliament, on the European Union committees, and it is simply prescribed by us. What a success in building and restoring facades in this sense of energy savings we know for ourselves, none. How many buildings have been signed so far, as far as it's been built, I, as far as I know, very, very little. Furthermore, what Croatia needs is also investing exactly in infrastructure, in terms of exactly encouraging construction, and construction is true that the Pelješki bridge is one of the investments that could be the wheel, the stopper of our construction, but also the Danube-Sava channel, which this government has more than entered in January or when, before New Year's Eve, no word has spoken of. And we've got drought, we're talking about drought damage, we're talking about domestic food production, we're talking about collecting, we're talking about inflation because of food collection...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14740	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14741	But on the Danube-Sava channel, not a single word, no one mentions. I agree that Dubrovnik-Neretva County, starting with Vitalina, Dubravka, Gruda, Molunta, Popović, Cavtata and further north, SZ, connects with the queen of the country, with the rest of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14742	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14743	Because really then we'd be the state that has every piece of it, so there's an uninterrupted flow, an uninterrupted flow of traffic. And no BiH has the right or should be called on to stop the construction of the Peljega Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14744	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14745	About the Scots or what someone from the government says about the pebbles, the interesting expression of the pebbles and the Clek peninsula, not to mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14746	You've exceeded a significant amount of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14747	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President and my colleague. Here's a bit of an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14748	Thank you very much. Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14749	I agree with you, my colleague Grubisic, that an updated land book and a cadastre is a prerequisite for any investment, and it is true that you yourself said that the government announced a grand project of façade planning to boost the energy efficiency of public buildings in the Republic of Croatia, and this project has experienced a complete fiasco. Since there are not many interested I propose to the government that perhaps then arrange a façade of parliament and government because indeed, when the facades and parliaments and governments look at each other, they demand investment. But I would just like to say one more thing, and that is to suggest to the Government that, very quickly, it highlights the validity of the Law of Conduct and Construction Conditions for the promotion of Investments, and this law has achieved a great success because it significantly reduces the procedure for building permits for buildings over 400 squares and for agricultural buildings over 600 squares so that not many people who exactly, many investors who use these laws really come into a position to delay the procedures of issuing acts for extracting any building permits either the building permits or the building permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14750	Thank you very much. And the last line has the vice president of this house, Mr. Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14751	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I would just briefly refer to the allegations of colleagues of Bačić, the construction of land books, spatial plans. There were still some talks about construction as perhaps the most qualitative potential for investment, but also knowing the situation in our construction sector. In fact, as mayor, I met with these problems in two terms. It was hard. Sorting out grant books, spatial plans, especially with regard to the existence of consent of competent ministries when we had to wait a year and a half, two. I hope things like that don't happen again now. But also hypothetically, it's not over for me, but maybe next year if it doesn't work out, someone else will come to the helm of my city or if I continue, it doesn't matter. If someone else comes in and I'm sitting in the city council and I'm negatively talking about how someone failed in six months, in nine months, fix something that I haven't been able to handle in two terms or three or more. Amnesia, do you, do you not. But what is positive is that this bill builds on what the previous governments did. You could see what's good, where there could be some new shifts positive, etc. Of course, like every discussion about every topic in the Parliament, it spreads, disperses to various things. I just want to make sure that my colleague Bačić has a replica when it comes to the Peljesk Bridge, when it comes to Peljesac Island, there is no further mention of the issue of Klek and the state borders. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14752	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Branko Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14753	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here you are, Vice President Batinic, confirming what I said, which is that the assumption of the implementation of this law in that part of the greenfield investment is a arranged cadastre, a arranged land book and a planned spatial plan. I'm sorry, here's when you've already made it possible for me to replicate the fact that in the new Law on the treatment of illegally built objects, a part has been thrown out of the loop that the owners of illegal objects would pay to the state to keep the situation in place. Part of these assets in the amount of one-third was used to make new geodetic measurements in Croatia and rebuild the land book. We have reduced the new Law on the Treatment of Illegal Objects, the buildings have reduced the fee and this part that was intended, which was received from this fee and which would allow one run into the new geodetic measurement and the real estate cadastre and thus arranged in the property-legal state Croatia may have been expelled for populist reasons, perhaps because of some others. I don't know, I'm sorry we missed the chance to provide a new geodetic measurement in Croatia, a new cadastre, a new land book and thus support new investment in Croatia. Because I'm afraid we will experience a more serious new geodetic measurement in the Republic of Croatia with this intensity for our lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14754	Thank you very much. And the next will be the presentation of Mr. Drazen Pandek's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14755	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected deputy minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In previous years, as the economic crisis has escalated, we have often had opportunities to listen to how the investment and business climate in Croatia is extremely bad. We have witnessed that in view of, therefore, the attractment of investments especially of those production greenfield investments we do not achieve almost any results especially if we compare ourselves with the countries of Central Europe. While in Slovakia, for example, car factories were opening up and hiring thousands of people in Croatia were the most significant investments in shopping centres. Croatia's competitiveness for attracting investment was significantly lower than the surrounding countries. The Investment Encouragement Act, the improvement of the investment environment, is in my opinion a tool that will help us to change such a state, and that is precisely in those segments where we have been extremely deficited in manufacturing and manufacturing activities, in various innovation activities, business support activities and high value added services activities so far. The law primarily directs its action to encourage job creation and thus raises the incentives provided for by this law to grow significantly if more jobs are therefore created by investment. It has also been correctly observed that there is a need to act more strongly to create job creations in regions where unemployment is higher, so that in counties where the registered unemployment rate is more than 20% the maximum amount of incentives can also amount to 18000 euros, which represents we need to agree on a significant investment relief and should precisely target regions where the most difficult situation is such as the Osijek-Baranja County. However, in relation to the regions in Article 6(8), as noted, the regional support map is therefore different from the three regions. In this way, since the possibility of changes is not being taken into account, regional support maps in the future which define the maximum aid intensity for regional support alone should intervene in this provision in a way that leaves out the explicit indication of the differentiation of three regions, and that the amount of support referred to in point 8 of Article 6 of the Treaty should be linked to the rules on regional aid from... So regional support as will apply at a certain point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, it would remove the need for further amendments and additions to the law in the event of a change in the regional support map, thereby making it easier not to further complicate investors' demand for incentives. This law therefore operates in two directions, direct support and exemptions from tax duties although it is likely to be expected to criticise tax reliefs which... One hundred percent in certain cases, and we had a chance to hear them here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should be pointed out that any new investment that will create a significant number of jobs means more income from income and income tax, as well as an increase in consumption and VAT revenue if they were not without such incentives. In this sense, this law represents a significant change, extends the range of investment measures to eight from the previous six, lowers the entry thresholds for the use of incentive measures, allows more entrepreneurs to enter the investment incentives system, encourages stronger development of regions with higher unemployment, and creates preconditions for the use of EU structural funds. By this law, I would say that we are becoming a much more attractive country for investment both for foreigners and domestic investors, although the main intensity of the law is to encourage the creation of new jobs taken into account also the importance of modernising the technological process, without therefore hiring new jobs. But it is correctly estimated that investment in technology that is a condition for achieving greater competitiveness of our producers on the market should certainly be supported. In support of investment in technology, however, it is necessary to note, although this law gives explicit final attention to micro-enterprises, and introduces and encourages them to point out that Article 8 relating therefore to micro-enterprises does not state the possibility of being present in Article 9(4), which essentially refers to small, medium and large entrepreneurs. It is therefore the possibility that the applicant of the application for the use of incentive measures may be granted a tax incentive without the creation of new jobs, provided that he implements the modernisation of the technological process of the existing production line or plant, subject to the preservation of the same number of jobs he had at the time of submission, but not less than three years from the beginning of the application of the incentive measures referred to in this Article. I thought, however, that this right should ensure the equality of micro entrepreneurs with regard to small, medium and large entrepreneurs and, in that respect, the amendment has also been submitted. In recent times, we have often had opportunities to listen, as has already been said about the anti-enterprise climate in Croatia in which potential investors were forced to break the doors of various bureaucrats especially at local level to manage to realise imagined investment. Sometimes obstacles to investors are created because we can assume insufficient knowledge, education of officials who were actually supposed to help achieve the investment, but unfortunately there has been often a lack of professionalism, so I might dare assume the evil intention of an individual employee or perhaps even an official. I would therefore particularly welcome the provisions of the laws concerning the promotion of an investment environment where competent agencies are expected to coordinate the activities of the investment project in cooperation with investors and the competent authorities of the state administration, local and regional self-government, and other legal persons involved in the projects. These provisions represent an upgrade of the existing system and, in my opinion, a step is in the right direction, a link that was missing in the current entrepreneurship incentive system. And I must conclude that a lot of MPs have agreed to this finding. The investor should make it much easier and faster to implement the investment project, but also to prevent individuals from being unconscious or malicious, as the official or even the official said, from making it difficult to invest. Finally, I have to stress the time this law shows for a change in how to say paradigms in relation to potential investors. It is necessary to take maximum proactive approach in conditions where encouraging the opening of each new job is a great success, there is no place of passivity and waiting. This law, I think, allows for just that kind of approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14756	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one is Mrs. Anne Lovrin's distinguished MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14757	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Pandek, and I need to de-commit with you on this provision of Article 6(8), which you have tabled the amendment to. Namely, our common task must be to pass a law that can then be applied. In this way, the text proposed may well be applied for a while and should then be changed. And I'm saying it's so inappropriate if Madam Deputy Minister doesn't correct me, and I've reviewed all the publications of the People's Newspaper that maybe some new decision has been made on the map of regional support. If accepted, and this map of regional support speaks not only of how many regions are at another statistical level but also of the decision that the space unit of northwestern Croatia reaches 53 and 58 average GDP per capita and the maximum intensity of regional support of 40 etc., that second region is the maximum intensity of 50 and that is why the Government has proposed the law. I would understand all of this, perhaps, if this law were to be proposed by some club representative of another, such as a laborist or anyone or HDZ, and this decision should be made by the Government. But the government is proposing this law, the government knows that the National Classification of Space Units for Statistics has been amended and does not make a decision. Therefore, at this time, if, according to your amendment, a decision on a map of regional support were to be applied, it would not comply with the act itself, which is the National Classification. And that's why it's about one let's say it's best to be clumsy or inconsistencies in the government's actions. So I appeal anyway because we said that we would support this law so that it would be in the text and with accompanying documents that it could be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14758	Thank you very much. The Honorable MP Pandek will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14759	Thank you. I believe, regardless of your criticism that, I mean, this law has not yet come into force, of course, I am of course thinking that this proposal, which I have suggested, will better be an anti-cipe of the changes that may occur in this regard than the proposed text which would therefore put division into three regions and, on any change in that regional support map, it would have to be intervened again in the legal text and thus would make it difficult for individual investors to therefore exercise the right to these incentives. I think this is a much faster and cheaper solution. Of course there is a need to upgrade the law, but I say in case there is a solution that is now proposed by law, I think it would make it more complicated and difficult to apply entrepreneurs to achieve incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14760	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic expressed his desire for a replica, but I don't know if he will.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Pandek’s amendment and Article 6 paragraph 8 make it clear that this is a mildly spoken failure. I even called it the Latin saying lapus cerebra, but maybe not so drastic and dramatic. It is, in fact, the establishment or establishment of a map of regional support, which says according to this proposed law to distinguish three regions. So then the maximum aid intensity is different. And it says nicely that the intensity of support is for so-called. The Pannonian Croatia which neither the HDZ Government nor you will ever call Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja as if it were something detestable, as if it were something leprosy and never mentions any words and mentions of Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja. And therefore this Pannonian Croatia, Eastern Croatia or whatever you want, the support intensity would be up to 50%. For the northwestern part of Croatia, this is what you think is now former or I don't know what region, is the intensity of support up to 40%. As your amendment, I have read it even though it is still not clear enough to me, to resolve it only says that what Mr. Buric said here when the afternoon part of the debate began, so when you brought it together completely and connected that region to your so-called northwestern Croatia. The Pannonian region where it is indeed confirmed that Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja have therefore been abolished in this sense because, in fact, this percentage of the maximum investment support intensity has to be leveled. Right? So Slavonia is at a loss and it's a record. It is precisely justified that Article 6(8), which speaks of three regions, will in fact officially be two, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14762	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Honorable Agent Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14763	So here in this amendment is essentially not talking about two regions of the anticipating possible change in statistical regions. They can be two and they can be three or four or five later. means there is no prejudge on how many of these regions should be. Most likely we can agree that there will be two according to the present state of affairs. But I wouldn't agree with Slavonia and Baranja that they'd be cut off. In the first row, as I said in my debate, Osijek-Baranja for investments in Osijek-Baranja County will even be able to get up to 18,000 euros per employee, yes. So it was looking that way, and it was adapting exactly to let's say maybe even Osijek-Baranja County. So I would disagree with that finding to demand it that way. It has just come to the benefit of regions among which, unfortunately, Osijek-Baranja County is in which such a percentage of unemployment is so unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14764	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be represented by Goran Beus Richenberg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14765	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. We can say that for 20 years in the Republic of Croatia, there is a debate on how to improve the investment environment. For 20 years, all governments have had their mouths full of claims, desires, measures, and that logic that all governments have done just as well today would probably not discuss this law at all. A long time ago, the system would have been arranged and the environment would have been such that it would have been welcome in Croatia, that it was good to invest and to pay for the investments. Unfortunately, it's been a long time. It's made a whole series of failures. Our practice and I'd say now tradition has driven many people away. Just remember the famous project in Valpovo. When a man was born in Croatia, he gathered a large consortium for those occasions, which was due to be invested in the mid-1990s by several hundred million marks then when he was expelled as the last thief from Croatia. And we haven't been forgiven by many. Later, court proceedings found it to be slanders that caused great harm. Let us remember a whole series of cases where even from our diaspora people can only mention that famous club 100, prayed, sought, suggested that the investment environment improve because they also want to invest. I won't say it rarely but not many have really endured these thorny paths, they have invested in developing jobs and have finally succeeded in their work. But the fact that this government is starting one job a third time from the beginning. But that's for example. the establishment of the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness because the first two were infamously failed and they sat down on institutions that only used colorful catalogues, with no concrete possibility of individual projects being solved testifying that we have been walking very slowly for the past 20 years. And that is why every effort that goes in this direction to make investment easier, but not beyond the law, but to simply remove barriers that are excessive, which the modern business world does not understand because they are not logical and to create such an environment in which everyone's investment in euro, kunas or in any other currency will be valued equally because it brings new value to create new jobs creates new opportunities for development. So there's still a lot of work to do. Especially when we know that he is not the only actor in the process, the government is not the only actor in the process of the state institution. We cannot look separately at this whole story, as counterpart Bačić said, from the system of, say, the judiciary, or the judicial part of the government under which the catastres and grantovnicas have been completely unsettled and in all Croatian areas in some unrealised changes since Austria-Hungarian countries. We cannot look at it separately from the position, practice and policy of local and regional self-government where sometimes capricas but also solid local interests create a barrier. The fact is and Croatia was the place where different breakthroughs came in trying to launder dirty money and they hoped to go through the procedure as through the mass as possible in some countries. Croatia is no longer a state where there is no system. Our system is increasingly and more adapted to those systems operating in the EU and many investors, especially those arriving outside the EU, are somewhat surprised by this stability, strength and regulation of the system. But in some things, we're much, much harder than we should be, much more inflexible and it takes a lot more time to agree, negotiate, define development interests. And then we're also able to make a scandal out of everything. So much investment was stopped just because someone's particular interest broke out in the first place and gained real citizenship in some media and created an affair. We have done everything we can from this level in Parliament and Government, in particular, regardless of the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, it was about the Energy and Investment Centre, it was about HAMAG Investment, it was about all those who were invited to help or it was about lower regional and local level we must simply understand that the development of the Republic is primarily based on the knowledge of new technologies and ideas and that what we do not have others and that many of them are willing to come and invest and live with us not only because of our beauty but also because of the fact that from 1.7 next year we will be part of one big integrated market. At the beginning of this year, 27 European ambassadors and ambassadors of the European Union handed over one letter to the Minister of Economy and the first Vice-President of the Government, one very carefully made analysis that their commercial attachés and economic representatives in Zagreb had for months, primarily based on the experiences that investors coming from their countries first appeared to them. Many difficulties have been described, structural problems, legal difficulties, but also concrete cases from the field where it is seen that the matter does not work because of someone’s cap or bureaucratic obstacle or simply lacks good will. The Ministry of Economy, as far as I know, is probably going to tell us something about this and the deputy, in that sense it immediately starts to act and tries to take off the agenda all these problems, which can be amended by law, and what can be done by direct assistance on specific cases. Why am I bringing this up? In public, one wrong impression is that it is only trying to make progress, i.e. the launch of production of new investments, as well as GDP growth through large infrastructure, expensive projects, but the fact is also that thousands and thousands of small projects are also extremely important. They're hiring, they're being realised faster, they're having an investment cycle, they're paying off faster, and that assistance is equally important. Especially when it comes to investments that started as a process where people with concrete money, with concrete money, with a concrete project already somewhere in a third or middle of the road and need assistance to come to an end. We also need to know that support, incentives, what we define by this law for the first time since today, that is, from the day we adopt this law will refer to tourism. So far, unfortunately, tourism that we have been saying for years has been one of the important developmental levers has not been in the system that we're talking about here, which is encouraging foreign investment, encouraging investment. Why is that important to say? In tourism at this time, there are several hundred quality projects waiting for one of the phases of its realization. There is much to be done, but I will remind you again of what my colleague Bacic said, two laws that make it very difficult for us to carry out these projects further. The first is the Law on Tourist Land, the second is the Law on Maritime Good. The Ministry of Tourism announces amendments to the Law on Tourism Land and we can't wait for them because we have to get a law that can be applied, unlike this now that causes numerous conflicts and unresolved situations. Similarly, it is vital to start working on the new Law on the Sea Good. And that's what the minister promised us and we wait until the end of the year for the draft. All of this will help us to improve, improve the investment climate, and it is our job to see how complex this is and to be prepared and aware that those of us who write laws, or who adopt them, are extremely responsible. In this regard, and as chairman of the Tourism Committee, I welcome that tourism has finally entered this system and I, on the other hand, announce and support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14766	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused two replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Ivic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14767	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Beus Richembergh, you're talking about creating an anti-enterprise or anti-investment climate. You cited such a case from the early 1990s in Valpovo and said that because of this, the man who wanted to invest in Valpovo was practically expelled from Croatia, which is simply not true. The fact is that at that time, it was primarily about the violation of the most minor legal regulations and by entrepreneurs, but also from then on by the municipal government in Valpovo, which resulted in a major political and then the corporate crisis in Valpovo and it was resolved. So it is not about someone being expelled from Croatia because of an anti-enterprise or anti-investment climate but rather for some other reasons. The fact is that there has often been such a climate in various environments, but the fact of what I said is, especially in the early 1990s, that in Croatia, there have been all kinds of guys wanting to hunt in the blurry and want to launder money and there is this today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14768	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14769	I will be very happy to answer because it is an eclatant case of a man who was no less or less than an adviser to the President of the Republic for foreign investment, who gathered a consortium to define the project first, and then financed something that I remember was worth several hundred million marks. True, the man was not expelled from Croatia but was glued to a label that he had to defend himself in court for years and finally defended himself and proved not only that he was not obliged but that they owed him. And on the other hand, the damage done then is actually great because other than him who remained with his capital and built a business centre in Valpo, all the other members of that group fled because they did not want to invest in such circumstances. God did not let us ever again experience a situation where we will have to discuss it at all, but that is one episode where one local or regional government showed muscles in an extremely unacceptable way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14770	Thank you very much. The second is the replica of the respected representative, Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14771	Thank you very much. Well, I wouldn't agree with Mr. Richembergh when he talked about tourism and that this is the first measure that finally goes towards tourism. In my presentation, I was saying that we had already had a very good measure, and it was called the incentive to succeed and it lasted for seven years, it began in the time of the coalition government in 2003, the real achievement was in 2004, '05. And '06. in the year and ended in 2009 when the recession came and reduced the sums of the Ministry of Tourism. The investment opened a total of 3700 new jobs, with only 300 million kuna subsidies from the state 15150 new highly categorized beds and these 500 facilities, small hotels, camps and houses are today one of the tourism operators in all parts of the Republic, both on the continent and on the coast and on the islands. And I think it's time for that measure to come back, to try to get back, to be much more active than this. Because four stars is a problem for every destination except Dubrovnik, Hvar, Korčula, Rab, Opatija and some Istrian cities that can provide it let's say service activities, which follow accommodation on a level of four stars and more. And that's why I asked for three stars to enter this bill. It would only then be possible to encourage people to decide. Because the difference between three and four stars is not in the equipment, not in the quality and the visual part of the accommodation, but in the surfaces. And it's much easier for people to work smaller facilities with more accommodation units where they can make more profit than large facilities with few accommodation units where they simply can't find a clientele to use, especially working throughout the year. And we're coming up with insolvencies and problems in financing the project itself. That's why I've been looking for three stars as something that could help us all. So I'm saying, while there's no incentive to succeed, I don't think this is going to get any more success than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14772	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14773	Comrade Boric, I can generally agree with you. However, the legislator had in mind what is one of the negative characteristics that adorn the structure of accommodation in Croatian tourism, which is when compared with competition an extremely large deficit of quality accommodation capacities, etc. added values with 4 and more stars. The fact that you can't organize a relevant international congress more than 5 places on the Adriatic is devastating at this time. The fact that you can't organize a congress in more than two places with more than 1,000 participants is even worse. So it's that we have to define some kind of development point where we're going to realize both congress centres and large centres of this kind of quality because these are centers that function and have extremely high efficiency throughout the year, unlike the standards that we inherited mostly with 2 and 3 stars that were significantly seasonal. Let's just remind ourselves of the situation in Istria that up to 10 years ago practically had such a situation that she didn't have any 5-star hotels. When the strategic thinking of tourism in Istria changed within a few years, this structure changed significantly, and that was only possible if, therefore, at a higher level, the assessment of strategic, development interests and if it is then stimulated in that direction. In this sense, the proposer also went in this law, so to give an emphasis on what we do not have enough and what we really need as one deficit space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14774	Thank you very much. And now he will present his debate with the distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. So also the club, our representative of the HDSSB Club said that we support this law and I personally support it. I mean, the law is really solid. It brings a whole series of measures that are meaningful and we hope it will help to some extent with this kind of investment swing. I would now actually refer to what seems to me to be possible objections or proposals actually around that law and, of course, the question of let those urgencys perhaps be a little bit more elaborated, so we would not have to send our own amendments to supplementing the bill. So in one replica I mentioned that criterion, there is a criterion for more bonuses given the percentage of unemployment. And I'm going to do it again, so the unemployment rate is not a picture of the situation. It's kind of a mirror projection of something, but we're not really looking at it, but in the mirror we're looking at a picture of something that seems to be a problem. Therefore, if it is the county I think that GDP per county would be a much better picture of the state by county and much better then we could, in some categories of GDP per capita, instead of having a category of unemployment have a category of GDP, and now I'm going to try to show it to examples. So the GDP gross social product in the Republic of Croatia is currently around 10700 euros, on average. The gross social product in the city of Zagreb is currently 18000 euros per capita. The average in the European Union is 16000 euros. The current GDP in Požega-Slavon County, from which I come, is 6000 euros per capita and is so practically in a few hundred euros up, down and in Virovitica-Podravska and in Vukovar-Srijem and in Brod-Posavina County. This percentage of GDP is therefore a huge disproportionate to the average and the city of Zagreb, for example. Therefore, it represents a much better picture of the real state of the economy than it represents an unemployment rate that is more or less uniform throughout Croatia except Istria and the City of Zagreb where it is more serious, less than in the rest of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, when it comes to other suggestions, see, for example, Article 12. Article 12 provides for non-refundable cash support for training costs related to investment projects. So, with the support we provide for capital investment, with the support that we provide for each job and even with a bonus, we also provide additional support for various types of improvement and related and job-related. So here I would ask myself whether we really are, whether we will have the means to still finance that kind of improvement. And related to the workplace and general training. Well, I think someone who invests in some technology spends most of their time with that technology conducting education to use that technology. So, for example, it is also a special improvement and general improvement. This is the whole article 12 refers to various forms of support for improvement in different percentages not to be longer. So, are we really and are we really going to have so much money that we're still doing various improvements with pretty generous support that is given both for capital investment and for a new job opening. Furthermore, Article 13 of Article 13 provides for incentive measures for the development of innovation and business support activities and high value added services. In point A, these are development innovation activities that affect the improvement and modernisation of products, production series, manufacturing processes and production technologies. And it is a very good incentive measure where there is increased support for direct manufacturing processes per job. But in B. it's business support activities. So it's an upgrade however we turn, it's an upgrade to something. It's the call centers. So we will specifically stimulate from 25% to that bonus for every job and more employment of every employee in the call centres, in the multimedia contact centres, in the call centres. So we will support the development of an industry that will call us around and offer us goods. So I think if it's really, there should be a focus on the call centers? I don't know. And to the logistics distribution centers, too. Still the third thing I've noticed so far is the non-focusion of measures on any activity. So other than industry, industrial plants and new factories mentioned there is now added this catering and tourist activity, i.e. catering and tourist facilities. Well, if it's some kind of commitment and if there really is an interest in the Republic of Croatia, then that's how it's gonna be. Where they are, there have been a lot of speeches today about this investment climate and the problem of administration, but I wanted to point something else. Yes, there is a mistrust of Croatian citizens in various investments and mistrust not only of the administration towards investors there is also a legitimate mistrust of people towards various investments that took place in this country in many previous years. And people are justifiably skeptical. They're not skeptical about the thieving that's going on. Now I'm going to express my skepticism towards one right now, and now I'm going to invest. So, when I read that Holdin Djuro Djakovic buys INGRA shares that are worth nothing today for 80 and something million kunas Đuro Djakovic who barely holds his nose above the water buys shares of INGRA that no one will buy at the moment, and that the banking guarantee is given to him by two strong banks, one is called CROATIA Bank and another by CENTAR Bank. And one recent state capitalised because it could no longer survive, the other one had previously pumped up 100 million kunas, then it would have been, and this INGA is dragging behind it a burden of 750 million kunas then, according to such investments, it would have really been afraid that those 750 million kunas that are currently owned by me to say all those private shareholders would become in a year, two of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia through this Djura Djakovic, who is mostly state-owned. And we have an example of these people out there protesting today from Gredell. There was a great investment where it all went to the City of Zagreb for 600 million kuna, 13 hectares of land in the centre of Zagreb, then built a new plant, another few hundred million kunas of state were invested, and in the end it all ends with a protest on Mark's square and a likely bankruptcy. According to such cases, it is no wonder that then Croatian citizens are so skeptical that they fear investment. And the lesson they have in the past is called Kutlin's lesson that can happen whatever happens, but that more or less nothing will be processed. And it'll all end up in some kind of fog. I'd like to call on Maddof's lesson. The man's name was Bernard Maddof. He was arrested in the U.S. in late 2008 for the biggest financial malfeasance in the history of the United States. The value of the theft pyramid was about $50 billion, was arrested at the end of 2008. The indictment was filed in 3 months 2009, in the 6th month 2009 seven months after the arrest was sentenced to 150 years in prison. And he finished the process. I think in the Croatian judiciary, several generations of judges would change, and the process would probably not end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14776	Thank you very much. At your presentation, we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14777	The esteemed colleague mentioned gross products and the issue of real economic growth, I agree with that that there are some issues in the real growth of the economy because there have been discussions mentioning that in 2011, the HDZ authorities have been much more successful, and they have forgotten one fact, which is that as a newly created value, literary compensation for the expropriation of property converted into maritime goods at the shipyard. This was approximately 6.5 billion kuna, which is shown by an administrative decision to essentially increase gross products and new value. So I agree with you colleague, the real growth of the economy, and in particular 2011 is very questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14778	Thank you very much. And now we'll hear Mr. Jasen Mesic's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here this debate has been going on for a long time with regard to this law, and I will try to speak very specifically on concrete examples. We've already heard here in debates on behalf of the club that HDZ supports this idea of passing a law like this. Our discussions are trying to improve it. I also agree with colleagues and colleagues who have said that it may be even more important than the law that society, officials and local administrations and at national level behave when investing not only potential foreign investment but also domestic investment, but also those investments announced just as potentially very important in this first period of the government's mandate, which are investments by the state. Why am I saying that? Because this law says that the funds are secured, and all together is secured 8 + 7, so 15 million kuna. Now, colleagues and colleagues at the Ministry of Culture have an item that has at least four times more resources. It is about the item relating to the restoration of immovable cultural goods. After taking over, I told you in a replica and I ask you to pay attention to this and if you don't believe check it out. When a new council was taken over by the Kukuriku coalition, new experts were appointed, and at the end of February they were set priorities at 60m kuna and some million kuna, this is never determined until the end because it does not know how much memorial rent will be attached to it. These priorities are unsigned until the 6th month. in the Ministry of Culture, there is a list of more than 400 registered so-called licensed crafts that can be dealt with by the Rules of Procedures of craftsmen, small enterprises that are waiting for these money to survive. Nothing springs all spring. Secured funds are a priority that no one enters into how they are determined not to polarise it. The council that has appointed new authorities and for 4 months you have no publication on either the website or... and now we are talking about improving the investment climate. So come on, please. And that's the twists that depend on that activity. Where else is the locksmith's craft, do you know how many crafts there are in this city that can do protective procedures on this Council that is culturally good at the Church of St. Mark? Do you know how many people hire those twists? How much knowledge is required here? Over the decades. I have warned several times about it, tormented all over Croatia. What happened? The contracts started at the end of the 6th month we entered the tourist season in the coast it will only begin to be negotiated in the autumn, so we practically lost this season. I'm saying this because this law treats, among other things, and something that I, of course, support to find here, design, audiovisual activity, information technology, so activities in the field of design architecture, different forms of media communication, interesting, promotion, publishing, culture of the creative industry, I'd like to see someone more closely define to me what a creative industry and other activities in the field of art are. So we write a special law to improve investments that have 15 million kuna in total and on the item for the restoration of fixed cultural goods waiting for 4 months you have more than 60.4 times more. Great. At the same time, I'll give you another example. In this House last year, we had an Audiovisual Strategy and an amendment to the Audiovisual Law. It is said about the return of part of what foreign film teams make in Croatia have the right to 20% return on investments they spent in Croatia when making the film. You don't have budget items at all. When we discussed the budget, I warned about it. We almost lost a record of 80 million kunas in Dubrovnik "The Game of Thrones" 80 million kunas. And now we're passing the whole law for 15 million kuna. 80 million kunas had annually only recalculated Jadranfilm in co-productions of foreign investment in Croatia because films were made here, because God simply gave us such climate and such places to which it responds. Films can be made, our film employees are good, well-educated, they had HRT that gave them certain logistics and niche. Super-investment climate for a man to come and make a movie right away. Not to say we brought it here unanimously then. I thank all those who supported it at the time. And to this day, we don't even have an item in the budget. I heard I got some off-the-book information that it will be handled in another way, I hope it will because it will be good for Croatia. Once again, there is another strategy called the Economic Use of Cultural Heritage. It was carried out by dozens of experts from various political parties involving HNS and SDP. This strategy is based on the following principle. If, for example, in Croatia you have 10 baroque castles, one is extremely important you must not touch it, three you can intervene inside but you must not go out with the other 7 which are less historically important you can go with all kinds of private investment with all kinds of private investment to bring them to some new purpose, otherwise as such fail. That strategy was only meant to set professional priorities, standing here for 10 months on the table. The dot didn't even move. The investment is gone and I'm going to give you an example of a Spanish company that's interested in... 60 holiday homes along the coast that would make them an exclusive tourist resort. I'm sorry there's no colleagues here, Beus may know about it. We didn't move the score. So where's the dispute? I don't understand where the dispute is. What's the political problem? You know where the problem is? in knowledge. Because people who are in charge of it have no idea because they're doing a review of the projects they've implemented. And do you know why they do audits of projects where investments have already been made? Because their architectural works in those contests didn't go through. That's my responsibility. That's why they're auditing these projects and hunting witches. Now, that's not an improvement in the investment climate. I'm asking you nicely colleagues and colleagues in power, try to influence this because there really is no resistance, there is no. It's a strategy we've come up with unanimously. It's an amendment to the Audiovisual Law that we've adopted unanimously, so we've all been to it and we've been to believe it or not 4 or 5 times, I don't know what the monumental rent will be at the end of this year because we've been cutting it down, we've temporarily had a measure, so I don't have any sense of how much it's going to be collected, but it's about the amount of tens of millions of kuna secured in the budget, voted, certain priorities with hundreds of specialized crafts that live on it, and it further educates people. Four months of pain. And at the same time, the first Deputy Prime Minister says that I am exactly the one who plans to go first with strong state investments to keep some kind of growth so that we don't have a fall and to maintain some kind of activity, jobs, etc., etc. I don't know who's crazy here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14780	Thank you very much. And in the end, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, so five minutes of exposure... And I'm sorry, the distinguished representative Djakic has a replica. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14781	Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to rephrase my colleague, Mesic, who has made it very clear that for this year in this bill, there are only 15 million kunas of insured funds. As it says here in the secured means of implementing this law 7 million kuna at the position of the Ministry of Economy and 8 million kuna at the position of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. This certainly does not solve those encouraging measures that would include production and processing activities, investment development, business support activities, high value added services. With 15 million kuna, several projects cannot be made, with 15 million kuna, it certainly cannot be introduced new equipment and modern technologies, higher employment, training of employees, product development and services, more added value, increased entrepreneurial competitiveness, even regional development of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about even regional development, we come back to what is controversial at this moment, whether it is three statistical regions or two. Why in this bill of law are you talking about three when you made a decision on two? Why it is said that the regional support map differs from the three regions of which are two central and eastern, Pannonian Croatia and Adriatic Croatia. Where is SZ Croatia? What kind of regional division is that? Where you now ripped out the SZ Croatia and 40% for support in Croatia's SZ. Is it just Varazdin and Međimurje? I don't know what we're talking about. I would like to know if this is really Cacic's project which will be equal to that which was for JPP and for the court proceedings which from water and for bankruptcy in which the 178 million kunas of amounts were nominated and conditionally recognised claims. If these are such projects that will be 100% more expensive than real prices on the investment and construction market, such as building halls in Međimurje or in Varazdin, for which 3 million kuna is allocated from county funds. 3 million kunas, and she herself costs 20 million kunas of real estimated value if it's... hall. Or in Koprivnica... schools of 750 students who were made with the hall, one such in Virovitica was made for 28 million kuna, and in Koprivnica cost 280 million kuna. If these are projects in which money will be legally monitored under this law, then we will come to nothing, and in particular we will not see in your government what is called employment, given that this law provides that only after three years new jobs must be opened within three years of completion of work or investment. Well, I think these are demagogue floscules that are put into this law, which have nothing to do with real investment incentives, especially with these 15 million kunas being prepared. We can say that it is equal, this law is equal to the JPP that ended in the area of the County of Varazdinska, Međimurje and Koprivnička, with the deep dubiosis of counties as cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14782	The reply to the replica will be given by the honourable representative Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14783	Dear fellow, you may not have understood me very well. I wasn't talking about encouraging investment in manufacturing processes, I was talking about article 13, which explicits says Hotel Bastina of other types of accommodation facilities created by the restoration of cultural historical objects. My colleagues and colleagues, if there is any cultural historical object, I have, say, 20 million kuna in my pocket and I want to rebuild it. Tell me gentlemen if there is any prepared on the list of priorities where I can restore it. You want me to answer that? There's no one, no one. And now I'm interested in who now supports me to rebuild it, which is what I'm talking about, dear colleague Djakic, I don't know if you're listening to me. And I'm also saying that here in Article 13 is listed publishing, culture, creative industry and other activities in the field of art, and at the same time there is a competition together the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Culture, called the so-called so-called entrepreneurship in culture.... We already have the same amount that is not increasing, where there are many more applications and interested ones who would like to withdraw money on that occasion to further develop their activities, precisely those that are listed here. And to say one more thing, let's not neglect culture in economic recovery. Nearly 5% of European Union employees work in the cultural sector, almost 4% of the EU's GDP is the cultural sector. It's more than a shipbuilding in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14784	Thank you very much. The club of HNS representatives has requested a break. I'm declaring a 10-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14785	I'd just like the reasons why we're looking for a break. In his presentation, Djakic mentioned something, and I feel called here and to say as a representative and as mayor of the city and as the one who makes the decision on the construction of schools, the hall according to the model JPP in Varazdin County. I feel kind of called and humiliated, not only myself but also my city council and the county assembly that made that decision, and I am looking for a break of 10 minutes on the trail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14786	And the HDZ Club is looking for a break of 10 minutes. I approve. Here's since the break's over, I'd like to give a word to the representative of the HNS Club, the vice president of this whiskey house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I asked for a break, as I said about part of my colleague Djakic's discussion, and about the model of JPP, or the upgrade of schools, the public private partnership room, where he felt a negative attitude towards how it was done. I wouldn't want to go into this part right now as far as the technical element itself is concerned. In fact, there has been a lot of talk about it and the allegations that it is much more expensive construction than building when you have money when you pay once. We can debate this, however, there are certain figures, there are certain statistics, reports and ultimately that this model means it was not invented by the Varazdin County, not invented by the current first Deputy Prime Minister at the time, but it was simply a model that was applied, which was repainted, so it was not necessary to invent warm water adapted at the time when the construction and design of this project in Croatia was not the Law on Public Private Partnership that was subsequently adopted. Namely, I'd like to highlight the positive models. Whether it was more expensive or not, it could be debated. Otherwise, we all know who we are more or less whether we are with local administration or by some other basis familiar with the construction method so that you can build a square of something, a square meter of 800 euros, you can, per thousand and 200, you can even build 2,000 euros per square metre of living space depending on what is being built and how it is built. So, we can discuss it from the merciless to the unloved. What resulted in this was primarily the employment of the construction sector. Another thing, students. In Varazdin County, I still don't know a very small percentage goes into two shifts. The vast majority go on one shift, and especially what is important is that the number of students enrolled in high school succeed without talking about the simplicity and quality of work when these facilities are made new. Many schools that have so far had no sports halls, which means only high school and elementary school education. Bringing in an entire project that was later, I think, was passed in 2008 by the Law on PPP, which has practically blessed what has been done in some way. At least I was also part of the meeting with Minister Primorac in 9 months 2005 as mayor. It was about my school and the hall when we went to present that model to the then Minister of Primorac and his associates. The then government did not encounter government approval, but ok. The law was passed a long time later. What can be read I can understand political rhetoric, attacking political levels etc. Maybe some kind of animosity towards someone personally, but I don't think this should be done through this debate, especially about this law that is being passed today, means encouraging investment, creating a favourable entrepreneurial climate, bringing something that doesn't have a negative context, but a very positive context. This is exactly what I'm saying for the public first, and also what the media can write I agree that the media is necessary to monitor, to report objectively, but to write first of all the truth, not to be certain columns because we also witness that there are certain presses that are known under whose pasture or patronage. What I'd still like to point out here about why I'm still here, so Mr. Cacic doesn't need a lawyer in me. But I'm saying, I've reported in first of all because I've been a participant since 2005, since my first term. In the second term, we have also been looking for, meaning since 2009, that the government then joins the model of a public private partnership as regards the construction and construction of schools, halls, since not all have been built specifically yet. The primary school at my home in Ivantz is about to begin the upgrade. So, positive what's in the cost structure of costing squares there was a downturn on both city councils and the County Assembly when you see that funding for a long period of 25 years is concrete, that the capital price is 30 and I don't know one, two percent. Don't take my word for it. Only if you take the approximation to buy a car for 7 years is you pay more interest, or spend more money on interest, means some 36.37% than the capital paid at the time which interest was agreed on by a public-private partnership. The price of the building was in the contest, so it was all public, everything was transparent, nothing was below the grain as it wanted to impute. I am responsible for saying this, and I would also direct anyone who wants to discuss it if someone wants to get concrete information from every mayor, the mayor has a contract from which it is visible and financially and to see what this JPP means. I see my time is up, I had to react and thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14789	Thank you very much, Vice President Batinić. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is the necessity of intervention in front of the HDZ Club, given the applications that I have presented and the comparisons that I have given about the possibility of the fiasco of this law as well as the JPP in Varazdin County and in some other counties that have worked with such a model. Comparing and worried that the same fate could happen to Mr. Paripovic to be detained and to some entrepreneurs who will be participating in this law is a concern that I also expressed by the HDZ Representatives' Club is concerned that it will not happen. And while you're already justifying the moves that were in this public-private partnership for the sake of truth, I'm going to name it just as well as any man in Varazdin County knows that the Varazdin Hall was built by a public-private partnership on 24 years of payment with 3 million kunas a month and a year 36 million kuna. Imagine what kind of hall that must be. Well, that's what I think is more expensive than Arena or more expensive than the Zadar Hall. Three-part hall, sports three-part hall. On these occasions of the construction crisis of business, the price drops and everything else per me and at my county and at the prices that were auctioned for... halls in the county did not exceed 7 million kuna. If we add half of that, it's 10 meters higher, with two more locker rooms with three more cabins, so it can't cost another 7 million kuna. But it can't even cost this much money that's been paid. And your county when that group gets into trouble, it transfers to the daughter of a 21-year-old girl and her newly established firm, which has a guarantee of only 20 thousand kunas of the share capital deposit and, of course, all the income paid to rent goes to that newly established company, and the bankruptcy and bankruptcy manager of the $178 million claim. The problem is how the fiasco experienced a public-private partnership right in your county and how is the county with what right and who signed, the mayor, the president of the assembly? The fact that the congregation has not decided is someone who is responsible for giving a transfer to a company that has no right whatsoever. To make the paradox even bigger, you built a county building that also pays 104,000 kuna for 20 years. And now Varazdinska County has a commitment of 33 million kuna plus a monthly deficit of 4.8 million kuna and no longer pays a rent for a public-private partnership. And our concern is that it's a model that's so beautifully described in this law and unimplementable. Because no funds are provided first in the state budget, neither are the funds mentioned here except for those 15 million kunas for law enforcement. You can't enforce the law, so one grand project costs 15 million kuna, let alone everything else. I do not know what you will finance and when you will show progress in economic development, employment, investment promotion if only with paper or with articles of this law you want to encourage the work of entrepreneurship, you will certainly not without concrete injections that will mean progress and development will certainly not improve. And this demagogue flossula in this law that my club supports in principle, given that there are good things, but no means are provided. Things are good, but there's no means. Where in the state budget, let's rebalance the budget so 15 billion kuna is invested as an injection of entrepreneurship and craftsmanship. Then it's already a job. This is a dead letter on paper, and I cannot agree that it will bring new jobs, especially for the next three years. It's an absolute demagogy that will surely pass just as well as a public-private partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14791	Thank you very much. And as the last speaker on behalf of the HNS club, 5 minutes of honourable representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14792	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy, assistant minister, colleague and colleague. Here I finally think that the support this law has received is indeed what is said almost and unanimous because it understands good intentions, but what is most important is all those measures that this law includes, all those instruments that this law includes, and the whole system that this government is setting up to make this law enforceable. Of course, I can't mention 15 million kunas mentioned several times. So it is quite clear that neither support nor incentives can be 15 million for the realisation of large projects, but when the law is read in more detail then it is clear that this law does not provide advances for incentives but for the realisation of certain projects we are entering a new budget year, but we are entering a new phase of EU structural funds. So this is one of the key laws of fiscal and economic measures that create preconditions to facilitate investment, encourage investments that are the main driver of development and growth in the economy and employment. Absolutely to increase competitiveness, increase direct foreign investment and what is crucial for our economy's backbone, for small, medium and large entrepreneurship to achieve and realise employment and encourage tax incentives that go up to 100% if investments are more than 3 million euros, 100% tax exemptions on profits. It is said, but should be repeated, investments that are open to tourism to encourage especially that part and that sector that is related to 4.5 stars for the part that is needed by the Croatian economy, Croatian tourism. Encouragement for micro-enterprises for investments of 50,000 euros and let's not forget HBOR, let's not forget HBOR with its projects programmes, HBOR as an investment Croatian bank that monitors and can monitor all projects. This is about the capital costs of an investment project which is supported by up to 20% cash, the incentives for work-intense investment projects, in particular the investment in technological and innovative infrastructure up to 100%, the cost of new jobs up to 30% of the eligible costs for jobs. Therefore, this key law is one of the key laws and fiscal laws, which definitely turns the climate of business in Croatia aside from entrepreneurs and truly this government this coalition, the Ministry of Economy becomes a partner to create teams to track investors in their projects until we solve all bureaucratic and cannot solve because there are problems in local self-government. It will be the state that will break it instead of entrepreneurs and the state will take over certain projects and declare the interest of the Republic of Croatia or the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to speed up development and to show that this country is functioning and I think we have already shown it. And at the end of the final presentation, the HNS club submitted an amendment. In point 10 of Article 6 of the new job of training related to investment, this amendment is related to the removal of the restrictions on the employment obligation of only persons from the Croatian Employment Service, first-time persons and is related to age-limits which significantly increase the potential of the number of users of this measure. In this way the law seems more accessible, more flexible for its use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14793	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic. We'll all support giving up. And now I'd like to ask on behalf of the motionary Deputy Minister to give us the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14794	Here's a thank you. I'm especially happy to have about 30 minutes for the final word that we'll make the most of. I'm kidding. I thank you, indeed, for the quality of the debate in this law, and I would, in some way, return to that note of general support which, in this law and those intentions, is based on the objectives and the applicable Investment Encouragement Act and those efforts that have been put in place so far, which is a simple step further or a reaction to some feedback from the field. This investment climate and the general perception of Croatia that we have in some way and we have been facing for a really long time, we cannot simply deny it when Vice-President Cacic said this morning perhaps among the first three things that welcomed him on the table and the first three talks he had in the first place when he became vice-president or minister was indeed meeting with the head of the EU delegation on behalf of the ambassadors of all 27 member states. And on that occasion, we are given a list, a list of objections, or a list of fields where investors coming from EU Member States see as areas that need to move forward. They simply handed over a list, a summary of what they, in their daily efforts to achieve their investment projects, face up to us with the administration. When the honourable representative Babic tells you that, you read, I think that in this segment and that this law is one of those where we and you are, because it is a matter of the perception of the country, a matter of the perception of Croatia as someone outside is watching us. It is the Croatian administration, it is the way we welcome investors either foreign or domestic. In this case, it's a list made up by foreign investors but it's us, it's our country, it's the atmosphere, it's the atmosphere, it's the smile or the lack of smile we're with, or we're not welcoming someone who's coming to Croatia. and there are no you and we are our efforts and our responsibility whether it's a local unit or some capricorns we've heard about at local community level, whether it's about us at a central level which we must welcome equally in synergy a good investment project. Bad investment projects and various kinds of things have been discussed and people who may have wanted to take advantage of the situation and performed the mundane conditionally, I apologized for not being appropriate, but there were those, so that's certainly not a priority. This law I think is the consensus of all of us living in this country that depend on capital regardless of domestic or foreign because that capital opens up our jobs to us at the end of the day and these are our joint efforts, regardless of who it is. And that's why I think on behalf of the government I can only repeat the satisfaction that, after all day's debate, this law is consensually supported by all parties. And we have to react to that list not only because the list is put on the table, so that's how in school we have to do our homework. We really need to make it self-critical, look into ourselves, see if the procedures that last 60 days really have to last 60 days, so someone gets into the power and starts doing something, I have to ask him what you did for the first 48 days. So this one mentality that everything can be put aside a little bit, so how are we going to, so we're going to make it easy, so everything is difficult for us this law can't change mentality is not going to change by law. I'm at this conference joking later on, and I might have felt bad, but I'm not sure I was wrong, and I said we'd need a law of kindness and speed first. And it's this first effect that we welcome people, so the impression that it's not hard for us not to perceive them as thieves is the fact that they want to earn absolutely legitimate. If they're okay, we're fine for a number of reasons. And that is why I think that this attempt simply continues to attract investment, to explain that Croatia is a good and suitable place to invest, so in pairs with this law, with the agency, with a series of operational measures, quick, friendly people who will understand it as well as their responsibility to be a win-win. Of course, without focus on priorities, without a single strategic focus where we will direct these investors, this remains an unfinished story and I think that through the new budget where we will be provided with much greater means of implementing this law, that these effects will be seen and that people in that structure will see this positive message. Yes, a small amount of funding has been provided this year, only 15 million kuna in the position of the two ministries, but these are projections that are simply put into the budget calculation for this year. But let's not forget that the financial effect of this law is not only the cash we give but the reliefs that the investor doesn't have to pay in the first years of business. So, the fact that he won't get cash, but he also won't give cash for contributions or for taxes in certain percentages is already a relief on his side that gives him a financial impact in his RDG as well. So let's not look at everything just through the money that we're going to give to the investor for his projects. So, in some ways, here is the conclusion, welcoming the fact that this law respects support and, of course, it is a living organism that must adapt to the market and adapt simply to our reality and reality, let's try therefore and with these measures, try through ourselves and with the change and ways that we perceive investors, giving them one critical point that will really deal with them, which will be resolved in the field of absurd situations such as two bodies, two institutions that adopt two administrative acts on the same things in two different ways. These are situations that must not happen to us in Croatia, regardless of who it is, whether we or you, but we must not have a situation where we will have two solutions, two bodies about the same matter in a different way, and that is just one isolated example. So it can't happen to us, it's a legal uncertainty that just refuses people. So here's my thanks again for the debate. Minister Maras has already accepted on behalf of the government this morning an amendment, while another amendment has come. I thank you for this one language suggestion that does not make any difference as regards first-time employees, i.e. for the first time in a working relationship. So on behalf of the government, I thank you for the amendment we're about to accept. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14795	Thank you very much. With this we have concluded the debate on the proposal for a law on the promotion of investment and improvement of the investment environment, with the final proposal of the law, by emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 152. This is what I'd like to finish today's session. Tomorrow we will begin work at 9.30 and the first point will be the National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-20-0.u14796	Final bill on investment promotion and improvement of the investment environment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 152. The debate is closed. The proposing representatives accepted amendments submitted by MP Drazenko Pandek and the HNS Representatives' Club. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. That'll be unanimous. Now we'll see what number of votes. I hope more than 88. 129 votes in favor. That's what we're done with the voting process. I thank you all for your patience and your participation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we begin work. We'll discuss 7. Proposal for a National Health Development Strategy 2012-2020 The National Strategy is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When adopting a strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the proposal? I'm sorry, Minister, but I can only see that counsel Shuker is looking for a word. Let's hear what's going on.
