ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13752	Good morning, esteemed MPs and respected MPs. I am opening the fifth session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, Vice-President and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and present members of the Government and the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you at the beginning of the fall session of the Parliament to pay tribute to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - It's a performance of the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - I invite you all to honor the defenders of the fallen for the Homeland and all civilian victims of the war. - A minute of silence. - May they have eternal glory and thank you. Praise them. Ladies and gentlemen, you received the minutes of the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Is there any objection to the minutes? I don't think so. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of this session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I have not included two points in the final draft agenda and this proposal for a Law amending the Law on civil servants, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading of the PZ No. 123 and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Service Payments, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 125. Those draft laws were withdrawn from the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the final draft agenda, I added 10 new points: 1. Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the National budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2012 with a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2012. 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 160. 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Montenegro on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 159. 1. Final proposal of the Executive Act, second reading, CZ No. 128. 1. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the implementing act over money, second reading, PZ No. 130. 1. Final proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on public enforcement, second reading, PZ No. 129. 1. Final proposal for a law on the termination of the application of public charges, second reading, PZ No. 131. 1. Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the Republic of Croatia's statistical activities for 2012. 1. Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2011 and 1. Proposal for a conclusion on the management of state property, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour-Stranka Work. Article 205 The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under the items of agenda 2, 3, 6, 9, point 11 to 20, and point 29. These are the Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 139. 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxation Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 154. 3. Proposal for a Law on investment promotion and improvement of the investment environment, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 152. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 147, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 160, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on child allowance, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 153, 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Labour Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. It’s the Bible’s Word, 5 / 8 Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Framework Treaty on Loan No F/P 1725 (2010) between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the Prison Construction and Reconstruction Project in Zagreb, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 141, 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kosovo on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 157, 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 156, 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 159, 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 145, 13. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 140, 14. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Taxes, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 144, 15. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on defence co-operation, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 155. Any of the MPs have any objections to the emergency procedure proposal for the adoption of the proposed laws? Thank you very much. I find there are no objections. Can we check the quorum? Please engage. Thank you very much. There are 134 MPs present in the hall, we have a quorum. I find it unanimous... please? Who is the subject of an emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Administration Act? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. ... I find 82 for, 52 against, I find that most of the votes on the agenda are included in the final draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act, P.Z. No. 160. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Extra charge for children, P.Z. No. 153. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 82 for and 52 against, in the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Extra charge for children. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Social Labour, P.Z. No. 158? Please raise your hand who's in. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find most votes in the agenda by emergency procedure the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Labour Act, P.Z. No. 158. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Framework Treaty on Loan Number F/P 1725 (2010) between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the Project of Upgrade and Reconstruction of Prisons in Zagreb, P.Z. No. 141? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I agree unanimously, with 134 votes for the emergency procedure, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Treaty on Loan Number F/P 1725 (2010) was included between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the Prison Construction and Reconstruction Project in Zagreb, P.Z. No. 141. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kosovo on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, P.Z. No. 157. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 134 votes on the agenda, the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kosovo on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters has been included. No. 157. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on Extradition, P.Z. No. 156? Please, by raising your hand, express ourselves as an emergency procedure. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I note that the final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition, P.Z., has been adopted unanimously on the agenda of the emergency procedure. No. 156. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, P.Z. No. 159. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Thank you very much. I find that the final draft law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, P.Z., has been included in the agenda in an urgent procedure. No. 159. Who is for emergency proceedings in the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, P.Z. No. 140. By raising your hand, may we plead an emergency procedure? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? The result? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes 82 for, 52 against the agenda by emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes No 140. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on Public Taxes, P.Z. No. 144. I'd like to make an urgent statement by raising my hand. Who's in? Who's against it? What's the score? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the final draft law supplementing the Law on Public Taxes, P.Z. No. 144. Thank you very much. Who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on Defence Cooperation, P.Z. No. 155. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in charge of an emergency procedure. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I note that the final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on cooperation in the field of defence, P.Z., has been adopted unanimously in the agenda. No. 155. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under points two, three, six, nine and eighteen of the final draft agenda are proposed but bear the label P.Z.E. the following points are inserted after point (a), (b) and (c) of point (c) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament apply the emergency procedure so we do not vote on these proposals. Written complaints on the agenda that I proposed with a call for a session and directed a club of representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers – party of the work. In the final draft agenda, I included the point of appeal. There were no other objections to the draft agenda, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament sees paragraph 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. If any of the representatives have objected to points 23 to 26, points 32, points 65 and 66 and point 70. The final draft agenda that did not contain the draft agenda you received with the invitation to this session? These are the Final Proposal of the Executive Law, second reading, P.Z. 128. Two, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the implementing act over money, second reading, P.Z. 130. Third, Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Public Executive, Second Reading, P.Z. 129. Fourthly, the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on public enforcement fees, second reading, P.Z. No. 131. Five, a proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2012 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2012. Sixth, Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2012. Seven, Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2011. Eighth, Conclusion on State Property Management, Proposer: Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – party of work. There isn't? No objection? There's no objection. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is where the agenda is established. In accordance with Article 205 of the second Rules of Procedure, I would now have to publish, read it. I suggest if you agree that I do not read it in full but that you allow me to announce that the established agenda is the way I suggested it in the final draft agenda that you got here on the bench. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to the current morning and ask questions, I would like to inform you that since the start of this government's mandate, 801 written parliamentary questions have been asked so far. Of this number, Croatian Labourers – parties of work asked 706 questions and 664 questions during the summer break of the Croatian Parliament. The government of the Republic of Croatia has so far not answered only 52 questions asked. I still want to make one more point. A total of 900 parliamentary questions have been raised throughout the previous term. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor... Who answered? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13753	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President... On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a 20-minute break for the club session. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] We believe that the content of the act proposed under point 7 does not correspond to the name, it is a strategy for the development of the health care of the Republic of Croatia by 2020. We're looking for a break for a 20-minute club session.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13754	A fellow Buric?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13755	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I see you haven't noticed that I've answered, too, but it doesn't matter. Given that in the established agenda of our surprise, and I would say even the astonishment because you yourself said that you have completed 10 points of the agenda, there is no speech on one of Croatia's most important, not only in the short term but also in the long term, a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia from just over 3 weeks ago on the new division, administrative division into two statistical regions on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, I am looking for a 15-minute break to take a stand and talk about why we believe that we are also in the Croatian Assembly of the Sea and should be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13756	Thank you very much. My colleague Buric, of course, will approve the break, but the agenda has been adopted, there have been no objections to the agenda, nor is it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure anything prepared about your application. I'm setting a 10-minute break for HDZ and HDSSB clubs. That's enough to make a deal. Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and respected MPs would like some attention. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Milinovic. Here you go. I ask a little collegiation to hear what my colleague Milinovic is trying to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13758	Here is the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, Vice-Presidents, Ministers of the Croatian Government. The HDZ Club believes that the prime minister should do the following with his authority, withdraw the 7th or submit a proposal, and the Parliament will withdraw the 7th point of the agenda: The draft national health development strategy for 2012, 2020. So for the next eight years. Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, visually if you could take a look, if you'd allow me to call you. This is an analysis of the system so far, the premium obviously doesn't want to look at it, but look at you. This is an analysis of the system so far. This one paper is the development and strategy of the health system for the next 8 years, that's a visual reason. And I think this visual reason is enough for the Prime Minister to propose to his authority that this item of the agenda be withdrawn. One side is visual, the other is principled. The draft national strategy we received, I also received the HDZ club sometime in 15.07., so before the summer and excellent time for public debate when the annual vacations, when temperatures in Croatia reached up to 42 degrees and nowhere on public television at least where it would be good if there were any shows about it, we never heard of a national strategy anywhere that either way discussed the national health strategy for 2012-2020. We didn't want to have a press conference for collapse in the medical system during the summer, which is evident. For this reason, some say the tourist season would not be disrupted in any way and good. For the first time in 20 years during the tourist season of the hospital in tourist destinations, not to mention, they had no drugs. HDZ was responsible for the good tourist or announcements of a good tourist season and we did not want to talk during the tourist season that there are no medicines for treatment in hospitals in tourist destinations. We believe that this would deter many tourists who came to Croatia. We said there was going to be a health system collapse, you cut your contribution from 15 to 13%. The health minister lost 2.5 billion kuna in his budget, which means we've been back five years. Today in the health system we create new obligations from 100 to 150 million kuna per month. The waiting lists, leaving the health ministers your team, have increased by 30 to 50%. The truth in Gospić hospital is down 40%. For anesthesiological examination 50% even, they're not waiting for 2 patients, they're waiting for 1. So you're reducing the waiting list with which the Minister of Health boasts. Infringement of the collective agreement, we need not a national strategy for the development of the health system for the next 8 years, but a strategy for preserving the health system by the end of this year. Breaking a collective contract, the minister says the ministry has given guidance to directors how to interpret a collective contract. The health minister does not know that the collective contract does not interpret the ministry or the minister but rather the commission to interpret collective agreements that the minister has not yet established. But to make things worse, ask the principals. I'm surprised that it's been 9, almost 10 months that you haven't met with all the directors of health care institutions to see their problems, but in the absence of a vision, you've cut the budget by 4% linearly by 4% and you're accusing the directors that they don't run the health system well, and you've taken away a billion kuna from them. The reduction in the linear budget of 4% says only one has no vision of the development of the health system. In the first month of our term of office, we sat down with all the administrations and calculated the real limits needed by hospitals. And that's why we're proposing that this agenda item be proposed, that the prime minister suggest we take it off the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13759	For the sake of the public, we have established the agenda at the beginning of the session and on the established agenda in which the agenda point is located, which you are now talking about, you have not had any objections. I don't understand that policy when it comes to determining the agenda and interest to rule out the agenda point. And as for the paper strategy, everyone in the Parliament knows, the new act derivates the old act. A fellow Buric on behalf of the HDSSB Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13760	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected prime minister, members of the Croatian government. The news of the Croatian government's decision on Croatia's new administrative division into two regions throughout, especially in the Slavonian-Baranja public, was accepted with unhindered indignation. Seeing today's draft agenda, we remained amazed by the fact that this general national extremely important topic in the Croatian Parliament has no intention or intention to discuss. The EU funds are designed to establish a balanced development of all Member States' regions and to reduce the difference between the rich and the poor. They are primarily intended for the poor and the undeveloped, not the developed and the rich. This should also be the case in Croatia, and Croatia is unquestionably the most undeveloped and poorest region of Slavonia and Baranja. Plan 21 remains on page 14 that today, by ruling everything, it will make Croatia's current division of three changes to five regions. What is the reason that during the night in silence almost conspiratorically came to this salty mortale? To be clear, this decision has nothing to do with the EU. The EU doesn't care how we share. This is a decision from Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's cookbook and Prime Minister Radiir Cacic's first vice president, which is the right answer. The division into two regions was made for Zagreb, Varazdin and the northwestern regions of Croatia, and for the damage of Slavonia and Branje. Although there is no poverty there as well as in all parts of Croatia, these parts of Croatia are much more developed and richer than Slavonia and Baranja. No one expected from this government of the Republic of Croatia to correct this shameful fact and injustice in 10 months. But it was expected to continue the foolish policy of further poverty and neglect of the poorest and least developed parts of the Republic of Croatia. This is a policy that will make rich people richer and poorer. An even bold and unhidden dose of cynicism is still trying to show this not only good for the Republic of Croatia but also a significant foreign political success of Croatian politics. And not only that, defending the indefensible individual ministers in the government lie openly and unscrupulously, such as the fiction that Zagreb cannot be a separate region is that it does not have 800,000 inhabitants. That is not true, and he who does not tell the truth does not call the people a liar but a liar. For the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja, the great disappointment is the ministers and representatives of today's ruling coalition of Slavonia and Baranja. You haven't learned anything from HDZ's mistakes, though, step on the same steps. Why don't you keep your mouth shut? Do not let yourself be mere party listeners and air-conditioned but raise your voice against the decisions that are at the expense of the end from which you came to today's chair. Even greater disappointment is Prime Minister Milanovic. It is sweet, easy, and fast on promises that you forget even more quickly, you are a fan of useless sayings and a declared unbeliever prone to using Bible quotations. But it's a well-known old saying that "Satan quotes the Bible when it suits him." But it's not bad to remind one of the Ten Commandments of God "Don't give up the name of the Lord your God in vain." [[Agreement: Col. Buric.]] I'm listening, I'm listening. [[Agreement: Col. Buric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13761	Can you stop for a second?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13762	Yeah, don't just take my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13763	No, it's not taking away words, it's two notes I want to say. If you have arguments, it's very good to hear them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13764	Yeah, yeah, here, let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13765	And leave your qualifications and labels somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13766	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13767	Be nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13768	That's right. Let me finish. It is to be cared for by the believers but also by the declared believers so that they do not endanger their own health and preserve both hands. I will not waste my words on Mr. Cacic's boastful and offensive statements and mockery. An offensive message to the citizens of Slavonia and Branje that it would be better for them to cry less, and to show more abilities, Mr. Vice President was accepted for his knowledge and for his heart. But in response, some new folk lyrics were born for the other day, so in Slavonic villages in the cyrbs, the new song "Studyed the father of a son, spent a pack of pigs, and in return, the school returned home to the proud ox." Regardless of all, the HDSSB Representatives' Club is asking for this topic to be placed on the agenda of this session of the Croatian Parliament. We have not yet become an EU member and this injustice can and must be corrected. Croatia should be divided into five, not three, let alone two regions. Of these five and Slavonia and Branja as the poorest and Zagreb as the richest should be separate regions. And such important general Croatian decisions are not only discussed at presses and party sessions, but here In the highest representative body of Croatian citizens in the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder: Time Honored Representative.]] If we have to keep quiet about this in the Croatian Parliament, then what does the Croatian Parliament do?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13769	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, in order for you to be credible in politics, this would be really valid if you had prepared an act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and delivered it in accordance with the procedure for this topic to be on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. This is how you used the possibility, but you weren't credible in my court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13770	And now we're going to vote. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament first propose to supplement the agenda with the following points. 1. Final proposal of the Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement, second reading, PZE No. 138; 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 163; 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 164; 1. Final proposal of the Law on Personal Name, second reading of PZ No. 92; 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State womb Act, first reading of the PZ No. 165; 1. Proposal for a Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 161; 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, with Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 162; 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, second reading, PZ No. 110; 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 166; 1.a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency; 11. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Committee "The Ivan Filipović Award" and the termination of the term of office of president and members of the Committee "The Ivan Filipović Award"; 12. You have received a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Act Proposals into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. So I ask if any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in law-making? There is. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13771	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we will ask for a vote on the proposal and we propose that the points under regular number 2, 3 and 7 which are proposed to be adopted in an emergency procedure, which we believe are no business reasons because it is not about defence interests, not about other particularly justified state reasons, nor that the reason for the law is necessary to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. We therefore feel that there is no reason for an emergency procedure and we are opposed to including these three laws on the agenda in an urgent procedure, so we ask that they be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13772	Thank you very much. Now we're going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Please establish the quorum. There are 126 MPs in the assembly, and therefore we have a quorum to decide. I ask, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, PZ No. 163? Who's in? Against? I'd like the result of the vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for and 48 against this law included in the emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, PZ No. 164? Who's in? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 78 votes in favour and 49 against this law under an urgent procedure in the parliamentary procedure. Who is in favour of the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law supplementing the Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section, PZ No. 161? Who's in? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 80 votes in favour and 48 against this law under an emergency procedure in the parliamentary procedure. Who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law supplementing the Law amending the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, PZ No. 162? Who's in? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 80 votes in favour and 49 against this law are included in the emergency procedure. Who is in favour of the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Protocol on Integrated Coastal Management of the Mediterranean coastal area, PZ No. 166? Who's in? Who's against it? There isn't. I find that we have put this law in the process of an emergency procedure. Any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? There isn't. I find that the agenda has been completed. My colleagues and colleagues, we'll start working. I see a colleague, Branko Vuksic, raises his hand, asks for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13774	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As you know at the Faculty of Civil Engineering yesterday the students had a rally and at the Faculty of Civil Engineering asked students that today 150 students should pay tuition for a new model of 8 thousand kuna. College Secretary Mr. Damir Rajcic said today if they don't pay 150 students the Faculty of Civil Engineering won't be enrolled, they will lose the right to study. Since the Faculty of Civil Engineering had the opportunity to apply the delay for a year and meet students who really do not have the money, we ask that Mr. Jovanovic address the Parliament and ask for a 10 minute break yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13775	Say it. He's a colleague of Vinkovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13776	Well, here's for the same reason, but also because of yesterday's protest of those who graduated from high school, we're looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13777	Here you go, colleague Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13778	And on behalf of the HDZ, for the same reason, I'm asking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13779	Then we set a 10-minute break. ... And the HNS is looking for a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the SDP is looking for a break. Okay. Then the break starts at 42nd. I'll see you at 52nd. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the break time is up. I call upon the representative of the Croatian Labour Party to take the floor. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic is coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13781	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. He's probably getting acquainted with events at the university, with yesterday's events here in St. John's Square. Mark. As you know yesterday there was a protest on behalf of thousands of students, yesterday it was able to gather 260 graduate students, it has to be said students, and I will explain why they actually graduated from college, but they have no confirmation that they have completed full education, that they have been disabled. At the Faculty of Civil Engineering, students were brought before the final act because it had changed them, in fact the university's management applied a new model of tuition, although it had the opportunity to postpone that new model for a year. More than 100, somewhere around 150 students should pay, we have two information, or 8,000 or 4,000 kuna in two wars. The students were looking for, they admit a new model, they want to study for a new model of tuition, but they just can't find that much money in such a short time. There was enough time for students to prepare, however, the Faculty of Civil Engineering did not respond in time. The secretary of the university told them if they don't pay tuition with today's day that they're simply losing student rights and they'll be kicked out of college. It's not about the students about the small amount of money, it's about 8,000 kuna. These 110, I have here a list that we got, 118 which should, mostly most of them are over 8,000, and the average increase in tuition per student of 4,000 kuna and I think that the state, that the ministry, that the competent institutions should take care of and make such a system that students can endure. As for yesterday's protest, graduate health professionals, graduates of radiology, physiotherapy, sisterhood, working therapists, medical-laboratory diagnostics and sanitary engineering protested yesterday. What's this about? The state encouraged these people to enroll in colleges, to finish them, but after college, it was prescribed that they had to do a traineeship. After a traineeship can only pass a professional exam, without a professional exam they do not have a call, they are still high school students. I can't get a job anywhere, I can only get a job with medium professional training, which certainly wasn't the state's intensity, and the state should take care of those people. It's about a thousand young people. Someone said they'd go abroad. In order to go to work with not medium professional equipment, they need to pass a professional exam in order to work in Europe somewhere. So I can't do that either, even though we trained them. Therefore, we appeal to the competent ministries to turn to the Parliament, to say what they will do for these thousands of students and what will be done with students at the Faculty of Civil Engineering who should today, if they do not pay that money, and you really know what is the situation among Croatian citizens in families who have students, that they are not able because they are not all rich, most people are barely able to put an end to the end and they should make sure that students do not lose their rights, as they have been able to do today if they do not bring money that they will be expelled from the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13782	Thank you very much. In the name of the HDSSB club, the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13783	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The HDSSB Club has been looking for a break for the same reasons. I must admit that it is becoming more difficult and more uncomfortable for me to come as a representative to the Croatian Parliament since almost daily spending is spent amongst other things and taxpayers' money to put this cage on St. John's Square. Marka, since there are clearly more and more dissatisfied citizens in this country. The reasons are not only in the nine or ten months of the Kukuriku coalition, but certainly extends much longer. But indeed, to anyone who comes here and to the Parliament I think it's embarrassing to listen to whistles almost daily, they were workers who were denied their rights, they were students, they were retired. I will only remind that this government, in particular the Ministry of Education, promised Croatian knowledge, Croatia a highly educated, free education, but the government's decision on a new model of scholarship accounting was made on 2 August. The University of Zagreb Senate adopted a decision following a new model of school fees on September 11th and last Wednesday 19.9. The Faculty of Civil Engineering changed the model for paying tuition, and on Thursday 20.9. began enrolment in the academic year 2012/2013, and who today, so on 28.9., did not pay multiple higher fees and did not sign a contract obliging to pay for flights from the university. So where is this social sensitivity of the state, where this concern for young people, where everything that has been promised and in that Plan 21 that clearly no longer exists and what is actually going to happen to those young people in whom the state has invested, and especially their parents, their families, have invested huge funds. Another problem, so it's not just the building college issue. It happens in all colleges, not just construction. There, though, some colleges are allowed to pay in wars. But it should be clear to everyone clearly that these scholarships have been increased several times. The other problem is also related to all those who have completed, so their formal education in the medical profession. So that old system is about those higher schools. Under the law, the state was obliged to provide the ministry with conditions, conditions for obtaining a licence. So allow them if they can't find a job in Croatia, to find this job unfortunately across the European Union or somewhere else. But it is the state that blocked the possibility of obtaining a licence, because the Minister of Health ordered all health institutions, or banned the launch of any kind of competition. So it's also about young people that are invested in, so I'd say several hundred million kunas in their education and today simply because of that, so I wouldn't say for saving but simply for blindness I can't get to a license. I'm asking myself and the question of the Minister of Education a few years ago, we had that program, and in particular, this left-hand side likes to boast about the programs of the "From Fax to Work" government. It seems to me that this government is implementing, or this ministry is implementing a college program at the Bureau or the Employment Service, and from the Bureau to the grave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13784	The positions of the HDZ Club will be brought closer to us by respected representative Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13785	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We join the concerns already expressed here in the Croatian Parliament this morning about the recent expressions of interest of students of different universities in the Republic of Croatia regarding the problem of tuition where the problem of different access to certain higher school institutions is primarily seen to determine and the cost of tuition and how they are paid. I think we should bring this into line with the main thesis on knowledge society, on investing in education, on including the efforts of the Republic of Croatia, Europe 20-20 to grow and to develop and involve. Because inclusion in society is exactly what's most important in education. In Europe today there are 4,000 higher education institutions, there are about 19 million students. It is time for the standard in the Republic of Croatia of higher school education to go in a direction that would allow all students who meet their obligations to prepare for competition as of 1 July 2013. At that time, not only are new opportunities being created for our young and educated people but new pressures are also being created, as well as new opportunities for jobs on the market for 28 members of the European Union. For us it is an important order, it is an important opportunity to complete their obligations in colleges and therefore we appeal to the Ministry of Education, the competent Ministry of Education to make every effort to find solutions to the current situation, and that is, above all, to deal with the knowledge society and to deal with higher education, not to deal with swamps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13786	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS Club, the respected Jozo Radosh will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13787	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, on behalf of the HNS Club, I also express my understanding of the situation that is happening, but of course we also call on the competent ministries to try to bridge this situation. But this is an opportunity to say something about how politics is conducted and how policies are conducted in different resolutions. Namely, when it comes to colleges, all the decisions made in accordance with the laws and equally in accordance with the autonomy of universities or individual universities within the autonomy of the university. This is, of course, the first year of application of the new collection model and should certainly be found by the mechanisms of overcoming this situation. But in the long run, it's about bad planning. The state should finally set very clear criteria, educate those profiles it seeks, for which there are public needs, for which there are social needs and of course these profiles, then more or less secure not only work but also necessary internships that are a condition for getting a job. This has never happened in this country before. Of course it all costs money. We know that if colleges lose these incomes, these revenues will then have to be obtained from the budget of the Republic of Croatia again at the expense of the quality of studies or at the expense of any other activity – social activities, health care. The same situation is true with the traineeships of completed students or students from medical activities. Last night, the minister said on the subject that the money foreseen for the activity was spent from last year. That money has to be found somewhere. Whether this will go back to harming the quality of the health system we must finally face the fact that public affairs must be well planned, that they must be in the public interest, not of course the planning of the education system and in this health segment and segment of the college that has nothing to do with the opportunities of the state and society, nor with the real needs of public activities, nor with the overall needs of society. As planned we have today. This government, of course, is in a situation to put out a fire, it's not the only fire, there's one fire in Croatia or more of them every day. The last time we talked about putting another fire out, we're going to talk tomorrow about putting an end to a third fire which is, of course, the fruit of bad politics and bad planning. These are, of course, principles, but as a way out of this situation and with regard to the internship of completed students and students of health activities as well as students of the university, we call on the competent ministries to find solutions to bridge this situation, but of course to set such conditions for the planning of an education system that will never result in such cases again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13788	Thank you. For the end, we will also hear the position of the SDP club and the respected representative of the Iron Flag.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13789	Dear colleagues and colleagues and we share our concerns, regardless of the portfolio in our hands, should not forget that on the one hand there is a Constitution guaranteed autonomy of the University, and on the other hand the Constitutional Court ruling guaranteed autonomy of the university. And that's where the direct authority of the government ceases. Nevertheless, I am pleased on the one hand that I can also inform from this place you who are directly concerned about the public that even yesterday most of the problem was solved, as regards the building. The building school and their students are not the only college that has similar problems because the study regime has changed. As the relevant colleges apply, how many inequalities are among universities at the same university, how many inequalities among universities are actually due to the proper action or to the ultimate coincidence of inaction over the years. And now you can't get rid of it overnight. The worst solution is to break it over the back of the students. But they spoke with the students and the rector, and with the university's administration they spoke with the rector, they spoke with the students and the minister and the university's administration spoke with the minister. Similarly, they spoke with students and with the university's administration and assistant minister in charge of higher education, and in most cases the problem was solved. In what number of cases isn't the problem solved? In the number of cases where students have not fulfilled even half of their regular obligations, they have not yet acquired 30 so-called. ECTS, so points that need to be collected by absorbing their objects. Maybe colleges this time will have an extraordinary time to meet students like that. They were asked to do so and from this place, so I am also asking them to come out in this transitional period when the study and collection regimes change, so that they meet them to the maximum, and not only at the building but at all the universities, not just at the University of Zagreb, but at all the universities. Because Croatia must have in its priority the acquisition of as many highly educated as possible and should enable all those who wish to do so. But one part of the problem has already been solved, and I hope that this is an anti-civilized solution for those problems that also come on the agenda from other colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13790	Here's a thank you to everyone who participated in the debate. You did not speak in vain, a phonogram from this part of the session today will be directed to Minister of Science, Education and Sports Željko Jovanovic and Minister of Health Rajko Ostojić. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the 5th session. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic, and the members of the government present. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose adding the agenda to the following points: 1st Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament 2nd Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Does any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the points proposed? There isn't. The agenda is complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13792	Would you please quorum, presence at the session? We have 98 MPs present enough to decide. We shall move to the establishment of the agenda pursuant to Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a Energy Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of PZE No.167; 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of the CZ No. 169; 1. Proposal for a Law on energy regulation, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of PZE No.181; 1. Proposal for a Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZE No.168; 5. Proposal for a Act on support for agriculture and rural development, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 180. Six. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 177. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Employment Encouragement Act, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 174. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on compulsory health insurance, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 175. Nine. Proposal for a law amending the Act on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment, first reading, PZ No. 170. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, First Reading, PZ No. 173. 11. Proposal for a Law on Testing, First Reading, PZ No. 179. 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, PZ No. 178. 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, First Reading, PZ No. 176. 14. Proposal for a Law on Infringements against Public Order and Peace, First Reading, CZ No. 172. 15. Proposal for a Law on Election Register, first reading, PZ No. 171. 16. Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2011. 17. Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2011. 18. Work report for 2011 of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. 19. Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the State Prize for Sports Committee "Franjo Bučar". 20. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. The proposals for the acts I read were accepted into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. I ask if any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Here you go. Honored representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13793	Your Honor, Mr. President. In the name of the club, I would first say again, I do not know which times the disfavor to pass the Rules of Procedure and contrary to the Rules of Procedure, but what seems even more important to me now is that two more weeks of work as far as I know the Parliament, and we haven't solved somewhere over 30 points, now suddenly a new 20-point total appears to me that it will turn out to be a little less than 60 points that this Parliament should do in two weeks. On the one hand, it is completely unrealistic, and on the other hand it is neither persuasive in this House. And what particularly bothers me indicates a mess because the fact that we are now getting 20 laws from the government says that it's obviously done, although it's consistent with the story of a random, random state, and I guess the random government that, by accident, at one time and ad hoc, there are dozens of proposals in any country that has been established. And here we just had yesterday and now we have a visit to a delegation of the German pumpkin to make the plan a year ahead and it's clear exactly when the law will have to come to debate because it's being done systematically and seriously. This is not serious because we are surprised every so much with changes in the agenda, huge additions to the agenda with very important laws, laws that require serious discussion, serious study, and we jump into a bunch of laws that should be reportedly solved in the next six working days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13794	Your Honor, I understand. I feel sorry for you because you have no experience of how this House works and then you protest for a reason. We will do everything possible to allow time for discussion in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of whether or not we will change the plan and work non-stop. No one will be denied a position, a good proposal and a good suggestion, so your suggestion now is that I believe in good faith well-intentioned means that we need to change the plan of the session. That's what we're gonna do. The debate will be made possible, the Parliament will be able to decide on the basis of the debate that is here, we will make the decisions that we will make. And now, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will move to a vote on the proposed laws that go into emergency proceedings. Thank you very much. Just as I said, can we check who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Centre for the Monitoring of Operations of the Energy Investment Sector, PZ No. 169? Please show us who's in favor by hand? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of votes 75 for and 35 against are included under the emergency procedure Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Centre for the Monitoring of Business of the Energy Sector Investments PZ No. 169. Let's go to the next one. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Act, P.Z. No. 177. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in charge of an emergency procedure. Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act, P.Z. No. 177. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act, P.Z. No. 174. I'm asking you by raising your hand to plead for an emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act, P.Z. No. 174. Fourthly, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 175. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in charge of an emergency procedure. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 175. On the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Energy Act, P.Z. No. 167, Energy Regulation Act, P.Z.E. No. 181, Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products, P.Z.E. No. 168 and the law on support for agriculture and rural development, P.Z.E. No. We shall not vote in accordance with Article 161(1). Rules of Procedure. Does anyone have any objections on the agenda of any of the other proposed agenda points I've read? Thank you very much. I find the agenda established. Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament good morning. Welcome to the vote on the subject of the past period. But before we move on to the establishment of daily work, I was encouraged to congratulate Kurban Bajram, members of the Islamic religion. Good luck. Now we'd figure out one item on the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose an addition of the agenda to the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this agenda item? There isn't. The agenda is complemented by that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My question is for the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Radiir Cacic, but allow me to conclude that out of the three gigglings I have won twice the first place. I understand that as a conducting draw for positive discrimination and so let it be with positive discrimination against minorities, let it continue so here's what I want to say. Dear Mr. Cacic, Thermoelectric Plomin C is a capital investment for the Republic of Croatia not only from the aspect of its value of cca 6 billion kuna but also because it is a production facility, as it is the production of the electricity that this country is missing, which is substituting the import of electricity and finally opening new jobs. My question is, how do you estimate the dynamics of the construction of the Plomin C thermal power plant?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13879	I'm asking the First Deputy Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13880	Thank you very much for asking. Yeah, it's really the biggest investment in this country's history. Its total value will be around a billion euros, and this narrow segment is estimated at 800m euros. The deadlines as you know, we've called for pre-qualification in the 7th month, at the end of the 9th we'll finish the selection, we'll choose between seven bids that qualified between 70, four. So a public call came from over 70 companies, of which 70 seven went beyond the criteria, and some of which, of course, either failed to meet or retired because they did not have the strength. There's been a lot in public lately of completely missed comments about our current partner on that little Plomino 2 RWE. Let's say RWE was at my place 10 days ago and he showed his huge interest in participating in the project, but as his financial partner left him, and they limited financially, he asked him to be given another 60 days extension to participate in the project. Unfortunately, we had to say no because when 70 companies come forward, you can't date once because you can't. So it is obvious that behind the largest company something that is difficult a billion euros is a huge stock. We are ahead of us after 28.9. when we publish four companies with which we enter a detailed analysis of the project and finance and everything we ask for, and we are looking for the participation of our economy, we are looking for offsets, we are looking for shorter deadlines of realization simply because it is 2.5 times reducing our imports, the tide reduces our imports, which is of course very important to us. Our structure improves, let's say the RWE already mentioned has over 60% of its investments in thermal power plants, Europe has 30% on coal, Europe has 30%, and Croatia will have 15% with the new Plomina, only that you have a ratio. So these serious, responsible countries are doing a smart dispersion of their sources, their risks. It will last until half of the 3rd month to select one of those four large bidders, and there are also French in combination with Germans, Japanese and Chinese and Koreans, so the entire spectrum of the largest companies in the world. By 1.4, we expect the contract to be signed and as I said one of the important factors in the selection will be the manual, because it is important for us to reduce imports as soon as 2.5 times as possible, as soon as possible. It's huge money, we're talking about a 3 billion kuna order, so we're talking about big money. Three years is the lower limit, under three years you can't do that. Five tops, between three and five. So '13. It starts, we've started the preparations, they're about 100 million euros, they're not small, '13. In the middle of this selected partner starts working, count in '17, '16. In the best, optimally probably in '17. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13881	Thank you very much, First Vice President. Dear colleague Nedzad Hodzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13882	I'm happy with the answer. Namely, I just want to say one more thing, after graduating from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering for eight years, I've been working on construction, propulsion and exploitation of the Ugljevik thermal power plant, it's a 300mg coal block much less calorie power. So the Croatian public must know that this investment will be an engine of development not only of Labinština, Istria, but of the whole country. So, with such an investment of that order, size and all that it pulls behind it, it will be a big wheel for the country's development and full support of this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13883	Thank you very much. Next question number two, Honorable Vishny Fortuna. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13884	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'd like to refer my question to Mr. Arsen Bauk, the Minister of Management. The Republic of Croatia has accepted the model of a combined social policy in the organisation of the social lives of its citizens in which one of the significant holders of measures and civil society is as a non-governmental non-profit sector. Associations care for socially sensitive groups with their activities and programmes, especially children, persons with disabilities, elderly people, and thus significantly increase their quality of life. For the operation and operation of associations, NGOs need space. The provision of space as we already know it is in jurisdiction and is mostly carried out at the level of the local community, but somewhere also at the level of state bodies. However, what remains is legally unregulated to regulate the payment of directorial costs of business premises of associations. In fact, civil society associations are non-profit organisations which are mainly financed through the financial resources obtained by competitions for projects and programmes, donations and the like. Therefore, it is about uncontinuous financing and strictly planned funding, exclusively programmes and projects. However, regardless of the above mentioned non-governmental associations, when paying directorial costs, they are treated as economic operators, i.e. profitable companies, which in their case is absolutely not true and I do not think it is fair. My question is: Is there any way to make clear and new legal provisions, such as the law on associations in the future, amending and supplementing the Association Act and other sublaws abolishing such practice, i.e. ensuring that non-governmental non-profit organisations pay directorial costs at lower prices than they have so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13885	Thank you very much. Answer, Honorable Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this question is only in one part about the resistor I'm running, but I'm going to try to give an answer. At this point, we have 47,000 registered associations in the Republic of Croatia that received around 2 billion kuna from public sources last year and everything we did in terms of associations was, for example, to control the purpose of the funds they received from public sources. And this question you're asking is actually going in the opposite direction, and that's whether there's a possibility that some associations can be singled out and that it's easier for them to function, as well as for social institutions, it's made it easier for them to function so that their overhead costs are calculated in a more favourable way. So it depends primarily on those who give, so such services. So whether it's state-owned companies, for example, Elektroprivreda or local utility companies. And in any case, it is possible, however, whether it will come to this need to see what the tariff policy of those institutions will be. I suppose a solution can be reached if there is a specific question. I'm instructing you to give a written answer and then you'll get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13887	Thank you very much. The answer to Vishnya Fortuna's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13888	Thank you very much. I agree here with the written answer because I have to admit that it was a little bit, and I've been thinking for a long time about who to refer to, which minister, because by activity, all the almost ministries are involved here. Of course, I didn't expect those associations that were only registered would have that right. There is still need to be additional documentation and everything else, but it must be important and important to pay great attention to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13889	Thank you, too. The third question is asked by the esteemed representative Branko Bacic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13890	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Mr. President, you probably know that 13 years ago, the Croatian Parliament passed a Law on Islands which allowed the document to invest significantly in the economy and life on Croatian islands. Since then, more than 17 billion kunas have been invested in the implementation of the law, possibly allowing the 2011 census for the first time since the 70 years since Croatian islands to count more inhabitants than the previous census. It is particularly invested in the transport of Croatian islands – the purchase of new ships, the introduction of fast shipping lines, privileged tickets for islanders, the introduction of night lines, which is very important, and thus it is really possible for the economy to recover on Croatian islands and not to further depopulate. Your government, i.e. the Ministry of the Sea, Maritime Affairs, Transport, has sent infrastructure to all municipal commissioners and mayors a proposal for a decision that drastically reduces the transport connections of Croatian islands. Many lines are being cut. The number of journeys from the island is reduced, and what is important is lifted by the proposal of the night line. In this way, it will certainly stop the economic growth of the Croatian islands. It is certainly going to decrease and there will be fewer inhabitants on Croatian islands, i.e. leading to further depopulation. This summer we were present together for the city council meeting of the city of Korčula when you said that Korčula would become a money factory very soon. And therefore we expected that the Croatian government would instead refer to the parliamentary procedure some new proposal for measures that would allow further economic growth of the Croatian islands. My question is this: As Prime Minister, what will you do not to implement such a decision by the ministry that should take effect on 1 October when the winter sailing order begins and that no bankruptcy on Croatian islands is really opened, not that they become a money factory like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13891	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office of the Republic of Croatia, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13892	Dear colleague, I will not, by the example of some of my predecessors, pretend to be a god of machines, deus ex machina, and deny what my ministers do because I believe they do well. I'm just going to ask you after I answer you to read me exactly what's left of that decision that you've convinced here, so let's see what the decision is and how accurate it is and how true it is that you've told the truth and whether it's been made. As far as islands and lines on islands and nightlines are concerned, it's a very good and very good thing. The islands are not bad – I will say it again. You have to live even better. There won't be any suspensions. It has been communicated with local authorities to see where savings are possible, because, as you know, the state's cash register is not inconceivable and we don't want to ruin a public enterprise or a state-owned company so that taxpayers, even islanders, in a year, have to pay those losses for two days. It's a blind, bad policy. So, we're not gonna end anything. It's about the answer to your question. As for Korčula, I said it would be good if all the islands were money factories, but whether it will depend on the work, effort and care of the people who live there. Therefore, nothing that means life to people will be abolished, and I say it very clearly here. That's not what my associates planned to do. And if you allow me Vice President of the Parliament just one more, because I think I have time in these two minutes I suggest to you, and you decide for yourself in the case of such steps as was the appearance of a gentleman from the HDSSB, decent people, the Slavons might react in one way. But let Croatia hear to the last words what people who represent themselves as representatives of the people and let them see the difference between the two worlds, the world and the half world. And when you start your speech by saying that Croatia is divided it has connections and I asked the president to give me the right. I have a right to speak here. You don't want to hear, look you won't stop me [[- Intruder Leko: Please! Please!]] Until I ended up like no one stopped you. [[Leko: Let her finish.]] This is in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, this is in the spirit of Croatian culture, so you can shout all you want. When you start your own... In a word, the government divided Croatia into two administrative regions, not statisticalally, then you started with the truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, two administrative regions. That's what the esteemed colleague - administrative regions, the doctor of medicine said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13893	Please! We don't edit the question, we don't edit the answer. You have the right to a colleague named Bačić to make a statement about the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not happy, because Mr. President at least answered my question. Here is Mr. President's memo to the government in which each line, each Croatian island clearly writes about what will be abolished and how much savings it is in the state budget in lime. All Croatian, or island commissioners, the mayors have shown themselves about it, and so far you have not, to read the entire text if it will give me time to read each line and explain what you have written. Therefore, I am not satisfied with your answer. And let me remind you that the total state budget has significantly reduced investment funds in Croatian islands, in infrastructure on Croatian islands. For example, only Croatian roads. The state programme for Croatian islands invested less than 86% compared to last year than it was invested last year. Such a policy will make the islands a floating reserve and the islanders will be ghettoised as third-class citizens because they are now citizens of the second order in their own country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13895	Thank you very much. We have one report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13896	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13897	Please, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13898	I was the first person to look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13899	Please, I registered Zoran Vinkovic first, and you'll get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13900	He's giving up that injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13901	If he's giving up okay. To be clear, MP Zoran Vinkovic is giving up his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13902	He's giving up since the prime minister has spoken to me and you've all been hurt by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13903	Can I get you anything that's been hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13904	Well, here's the thing, Mr. President, first of all, you hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 210, because you didn't even give a warning to the speaker who got away from the subject of the agenda without saying that, according to paragraph 3 of that same article, you should have taken his word away. And I have to tell you, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry you didn't have the courage to replicate to the new Rules of Procedure on my exposure so I could answer your line. This is how to abuse
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13905	Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13906	It doesn't matter. Use this way after 10 minutes
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13907	Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13908	And very disappointing in mine, as well as in the eyes of all MPs, as well as the vast majority of Croatian citizens. We expected at least a little more courage from you. You know, sayings can't get Croatia on the right track.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13909	Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13910	And that's the only thing you seem to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13911	We have time and we have nerves, but now I'm going to tell you two things. With the breach of the Rules of Procedure that I reject because the Rules of Procedure are not injured, and you will be used by the Rules of Procedure as planned if you are not satisfied you will write and explain where you see the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And you used the injury to replicate and discuss what wasn't reported. Thank you very much. So much for the correct use of the Rules of Procedure Institute. Thank you very much. Let's go to Question Four, Honorable Representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13912	Thank you. My question was addressed to Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. A few months ago, the government sent public announcements of everything they would sell, monetize or whatever it is called, and then concrete moves were taken, competitions were called for advisors around these concessions, bank sales, insurance companies, road concessions, etc. The State Property Management Act in Articles 8 and 10 says that the property cannot be available without two key documents – a strategy adopted by this Parliament and the Government Plan. The documents have not even been drafted by the previous government whose mandate has been passed, neither has this government. Neither previous nor this government has produced a list of state assets, which is a key assumption for any asset management. How will you manage if you don't know exactly what you have? So, moves are being made contrary to the laws passed by this House. I would not now as to how harmful it is to sell out the last Croatian bank, the insurance company, that roads are given in long-term concessions, I suppose, I hope we have a chance to talk about it in this House. That we won't regret it again as we regretted the INA and Pliva case. I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Prime Minister, will you comply with the law of the Republic of Croatia as you swore in this House? And stop this crazy sale and the innkeepership of state property that's being announced until the legal conditions are met? Or you'll tell the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what they heard in another system, but let's not stick to the law as a drunk float.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13913	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13914	What are you going to do, Mr. Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13915	The President-in-Office of the Republic of Croatia, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13916	An esteemed colleague is often quoted as saying in his speech and repeating what I know, etc. Well, so do you, because I know you, too. some firms there. That's what we want to talk about. What companies are these? There aren't many of them. I agree with you that the laws should be respected, that's where everyone agrees. Why the previous government did not do so in one prescribed way is another question. It's not. The strategy and plans need to be adopted, but we need to talk about the important thing, which is whether or not we're going to sell out, but if we're going to give these companies in times of crisis, there are several, a developmental chance that will be useful for them, for employees and for the state budget. There's no sale or what I know, etcetera. insurance companies and banks rather than selling part of the portfolio with international procedures with advisers to provide fresh money so that they can develop. If that money isn't there won't be any of them. And otherwise, it suits us politically because there will be no temptation at all to foster party friends and to later pay them severance fees, to have their wives, aunts, grandmothers, and so on. That's also good, I don't expect you to say hello. As for the monetization of highways that some other countries in Europe are working on, where she worked very actively and prepared the previous government – see this is not a sale. Let's tell people the truth. Let's see if we can make something that has already been built by a generation of Croatian citizens for what we were in debt at the beginning of a favourable one, and now very expensive and unfavourable and that with all tourism we don't get enough income to finance the debts we're going to see if there are those who can borrow cheaper than us, now give us a large amount of money to pay both the good ones and these little ones from the other half of the last decade, improve the credit rating and liquidity of the state and keep the highways here for Croatian people, for tourists, control the price of the toll and all of this precisely by the contract how it is done in the civilized world. Do I still have time? I don't want to break the Rules of Procedure. That's basically it. So, what do you know, etc., let's talk specifically. And your appeal to stick to the law, strategy and property management plan absolutely. But eventually, the government manages the property, and it has to make a decision, and the point of this story is to make decisions. For two and a half years neither border decisions nor regions were taken. And that's the biggest failure, the biggest sin I'd look back on here when I'm talking about ex-government. Let's let go of the proceedings, let go of the possible crime -- that's what there is. Not to that extent, but no decisions were made. This country doesn't have time to wait and I said we can and we won't do anything behind the board. Nothing behind the board. So let's actually talk about how many companies it is. These are three systems possibly and which are benefits for the insurance company, for the bank, which is a perspective if we leave them in the state they are now in. Networked by political influences, politically employed friends with no money for further development. Let's go tell people the truth and make a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13917	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13918	Well, you've partly answered my question. You replied that you would not stick to the law as a drunk float because the higher interests of the moment, which is as terrible as the whole of the world, dictate that you do exactly that, to violate the Croatian laws that are in this House and in the assembly that you are responsible for your work. They do the other one, you say. Well, maybe others do, but I believe they know what they're doing, that they've brought a strategy, that they've come up with plans, that they know what they have and what they have with these masters, they don't sell out. We, a) do not know what we have and b) do not know what to do with it. We didn't at least write it anywhere, nor did we say it in this House. So much for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13919	Thank you, Your Honor. The next question is the respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My question was addressed to Justice Minister Orset Milenic, and it is neither the mayor of Split nor the recent Supreme Court ruling in the case of the Korean bridge. As for one other thing, in the past 3.5 years since 2008, to date, the Ministry of the Interior has submitted 780,000 criminal charges for different types of traffic violations to the Department of the Interior. Of these 780,000 should be charged 630 million kuna. In those 3.5 years of 780 thousand criminal, criminal charges, only 2% were processed, only 13500, and charged by these 630 million, 1.85 and 11 500 000 kuna respectively. So somewhere around 97.98% of the traffic violations committed by the interior ministry were left unsanctioned. This budget, and this Parliament, and this government, and this state, for traffic police, totals about 300 million kuna a year, and for the Criminal Courts about 220 million kuna. Mr. Minister, the prime minister recently said he doesn't want a random state, I agree with him, and in this place we show not only that we don't have a random state, but we don't have any state. What does the Justice Department intend to do to change that? I know it's your legacy, as well as many other ministers, but we shouldn't live with that legacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13921	Time. And the answer, Honorable Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13922	Thank you. We're absolutely not satisfied with the situation you've described. Of which, the situation relating to courts and traffic violations is about 12%. So this is the total state that you've shown, so it's absolutely below expectations and we're absolutely not satisfied. What we are doing and what we are going to do is this: exactly, I think this week or next will be before you, are amendments to the Executive Act and to the law on payment through the FINA, which will be arranged that this segment will also be punished. So, all criminal penalties also charge through the FINA. The current method of collection, it does not belong to the Justice Department, but it is extremely ineffective, now that all criminal penalties that become necessary go to the FINA, are charged from citizens' accounts. Not just from an account, but from all the forms of cash they have on their accounts. This will refer to violations, fines and any other forms of sanctions relating to money. The other thing is, what we're about to do is amend the law, amend the law that we're going to address and some of these things. So, this change in the method of payment will significantly raise the charge, but we want to train the courts, give them the means, or tool through the amendment of the law that they can handle the proceedings more effectively, to come into the collection phase. The basic changes in which we are going are as follows: we will provide for the possibility of paying the mandate immediately or within a specified shorter period which will then be significantly less than if the party or person who is being referred to the court proceedings is to be punished. The other thing is, we're going to amend the provisions relating to super-jail and serving time for the common good. Today's provisions are inapplicable, I'll tell you, for example. that we only had 707 stated labour measures for the general good, which is below any need in this procedure. It is simple that the model applied in criminal law cannot be applied in breach. The next thing we know, it's connecting the registers in a way that the offenders will be denied whether they issue a driver's license or any other document, until they pay their obligations, which they've been told, so that they've become powerful. As far as the infringement procedure itself is concerned, we will apply the principle of opportunity, we will introduce, we will shorten, we will change the delivery method which will speed up the process and a whole series of other legal changes which will significantly shorten the procedure. What we should also say is that with the changes so far, we, for example, have now fallen to only 0.8% of the statute of limitations, which has increased this number of sentences to execution. That's why something failed, because the process has become more effective, and now it's going to become with what I've said and more efficient and certainly this number next time, next year, at this time it's going to be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13923	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. And the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13924	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I trust that what you are announcing as measures of the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice will really significantly change the picture we have today. Because, let me add just one more number, there are nearly 600 people in traffic accidents in Croatia a year. Losses of budget, human, family and everyone else in this regard are immeasurable. Budgetally, that's about 2% of the budget without saying how professional it is and any other position of a police officer or judge who is unable to do his job because there is no coordination between state bodies or because someone in a segment has not done their job. In that sense, Mr. Minister, we hope that what you have announced will be realized and we encourage you to do so in the interests of the citizens and in the interest of the fact that we really need a functioning state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13925	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zvonko Milas and the 6th parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13926	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister with his associates. My question will refer to a new division of the Republic of Croatia into statistical regions. So, a large part of the public, especially from undeveloped parts of Croatia, really thinks that, above all, this division is made hasty, non-transparent, creamy, surprising for a government who likes to say to themselves that it communicates with the public, that it acts transparently, in the end it is constantly on the face book, so I don't understand why it was done without consulting those whose question concerns the most and directly? And I don't have to say that this issue is of exceptional strategic importance above all to the development of the Republic of Croatia over the next seven years. My question to Mr. Prime Minister, why did the new division not take care to ensure the uniform development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, which is essentially the meaning of cohesion policy? On the contrary, by this division I think the preconditions for an even greater developmental inequality have been met. I think that perhaps Croatia could be divided into 4 regions where the city of Zagreb, which was the largest stumbling block here, would be a separate region, so it would belong to developed regions above 90% of the EU average, and the other three could be defined according to the needs of optimal, I am talking about three, meaning plus the city of Zagreb, according to optimal regionalisation and, of course, by EUROSTAT about the number of inhabitants etc. but I guarantee with maximum financial efficiency in the withdrawal of funds from the access funds but for the entire Republic of Croatia. In the end, you had this in your pre-election plan 21 something like that, and to this day it's always unclear why you gave it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13927	Thank you very much. Honored Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13928	Well, did your dear colleague ask me a question? You're not. So the question is, why didn't we consult?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13929	... About the uniform development of the Republic of Croatia, so all of its parts. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13930	... You can talk to yourself, though what worries me is that you can talk to each other unlike those of us with all our efforts that do not differ administratively from the statistical division. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] That's what I'm not gonna say. But what worries me is that it seems to me that you really believe in what you say. I'm worried about that. In the division of Croatia in two statistical regions, I stress the statistical regions, which is therefore an instrument for extracting how the funds for cohesion or structural funds from the EU are said uglyly. We're gonna pay one, and we're gonna get two back to rough things up. And that was discussed all these years ago, 4.5 years ago when the European Commission had a slightly stronger negotiating position than Croatia, and now Croatia has a little stronger. I will not say that the Commission has a weaker one, then it was negotiated with middle and senior officials and that was done by the then government and then the administration and then the negotiators. Some sit here, and some sit here, living and healthy witnesses. And he tried to negotiate that Croatia would be two statistical regions, which fully fits into standard cohesion and regions. NUC2 statistical region, no administrative region, no county or what I know, etc. When that didn't work out because it couldn't have gone to three regions. These three statistical regions are something that has led the northern Croatia to fall out of competition for any European funds with moderate growth rates very quickly after 7 years. So it's no accident that it started with two regions because the administration has its logic, whether it's HDZ or SDP, people understand something. We are now as with the Pelješki bridge, and we will come to this and I look forward to it, that with our own efforts, making it a more comfortable position for us not to have fought for ourselves, so now it is in a situation that we have a little more argumentative and convincing conversation, so we have managed to arrange for Croatia to be two regions. Thank you, thank you at the end of that patience that we did it. So, who's standing in the way? Đakovo, Osijek, Vukovar, Vinkovci who have been boasting for a reason or for no reason but sometimes with the reason that they are successful in attracting European funds to continue. Who's standing in their way? Well, the famous thing is that Zagreb was the most uninterested, I will not enter the reasons because there are competitions a little stricter. Maybe that's why some people haven't shown much interest. But Slavonia has been relatively successful so far. So there's a lot of money at our disposal, and the experience tells us that the most organized countries have failed to attract 100% of the amount. There's no fear at all. If this makes me most happy, Croatia will grow so much growth rates in China that in 7 years northern Croatia, in which Zagreb and Vukovar and Osijek exceed 75% of the EU's gross national product average, this is phenomenal. People, but we don't believe it. I'm glad you believe that. Then northern Croatia, along with Slavonia, falls out. But unfortunately that's not gonna happen. If it happened, we'd be entitled to another kind of geometry again. For the next 14 years, we can be absolutely calm, so two EU budget periods that we will be in this status where we are now that Zagreb cannot compete in any way or vice versa with Slavonia, Istria, Međimurje in attracting funds. So this was an attempt and it was a good attempt in the Croatian interest that one part of Croatia not Zagreb, Zagreb, but over 100%, but the northern Croatia, therefore the Cacauca neighborhood roughly put, the Koprivnica-Kryzeva County to protect itself from falling out of competition for European funds. Well, that should be nice to every citizen of this country, but those who don't understand the difference. Administrative divisions and statistical divisions with them are difficult to talk about. [[Intruder: Thank you, weather respected.]] That's why I'm done talking to you, I guess I can convince you. You have these people who understand this problem and with some people it's much harder because they speak hate language not to us but to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13931	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13932	Thank you for your response. Whether I believe in anything or don't think we all have to believe in something and someone. So like you and I, I'm not a special economic expert, but of course I asked people who work on it and who know a lot about these things and they think quite the opposite of what you said and ultimately bring in certain statements from your colleagues. Let's say the vice president says the rest of continental Croatia does not have enough absorption capacity. Does this mean that Zagreb is involved in continental Croatia for this reason and that everything that it will compete for, from this it will result, it will die, the rest of continental Croatia does not have to compete or compete for these projects. In other words, Zagreb will become the holder of all projects that will take place in continental Croatia, leading to what is contrary to the intensity of European regional development, will lead to centralised. So you can raise your hands, we can explain later, but let me say what I mean. So Croatia is going to further strengthen centralisation with this division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13933	Thank you very much. The seventh parliamentary question, honourable representative Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13934	Thank you very much. My question is for the president of the Croatian government, Mr Milanovic. Here on December 31st, the year 2011 you visited together with your first vice president Sisak, the topic was Željezara Herbos and Mr. Cacic, your first vice president then said, I will quote: "a special team will be formed to take care of Željezara Herbos, but also other Sisak companies in trouble". In June of this year when you visited Sisak, you said, I will also quote: "that you were fighting for the lifting of the imposition that has been done, Željezara Sisak is not dead, it is necessary to keep technology systems.". Unfortunately, despite the suspension of the impose during July and August, the new owners of the Sisak Ironworks separated the facilities and drove them to Mexico and announced that they would employ only 50 workers over the next two years compared to 900 employees. Here I think we'll all agree that it's interesting that the mammalian plant will work well in Mexico, but it won't work well at the Sisak Ironworks where they've been producing them for decades. Sisenians fear that this is the end of Sisak Ironworks, as well as Croatian black metallurgy. Can you answer me Mr. Prime Minister to the question of what the team of the first vice president of your government, Mr. Cacic, has taken over these companies, so Jeljezara Herbos, as announced and what the Government will do to make sure Sisak does not run out of ironworks and Croatia without black metallurgy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13935	Thank you very much. Dear Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13936	Dear colleague, you could have asked the first vice president of the government. You set him up for me, so I'll answer that, and that's more because I've been to Sisak both times but I haven't gone for a walk and made unreal promises, and no other time when we were there, I've been held back. But when someone buys a plant and says they're gonna do something, they'll probably work. You know, nobody gives millions or billions for no reason. How it's going to work, we can't condition it. The first time I could, as Prime Minister, act as state officials in the Croatian and Sisak interests, I did so for the first time in a month of conversation with the President of the European Commission and asked for witnesses, there were more to be abolished, anti-dumping, to abolish the imposition, or type of customs which was punishable for the dumping policy for which the previous owner was accused before the Americans, I could not before. Within a few weeks or two, it was on working groups, and the council made such a decision, unfortunately too late. I couldn't have done more than that, like Mr. Caucus. I am not going to ask why the Croatian authorities did not insist on this before or I will say that it was very easy to achieve, but I can tell you that the European Commissioner for Enlargement, let alone the President of the Commission, had no idea about the problem, had never heard of it. That someone's with them, so there's too many witnesses for that. If someone had talked to them half a year earlier, something might have been done, but we're not accusing you of that, so I'm surprised you're asking such questions. We were there, we did what we could, it won't close, it'll work. You know that technology today the number of workers can no longer be as large as it was. It's a problem all over the world, all of Western Europe. Something's going to be manufactured there, and that's better than nothing. So I'm responsible for what I did and I could do and I'm going to try and give it over, make an effort, but I can't solve the problems that have been imposed, which are irreparable, which have not been worked on, which have been hard to work on. I don't go back to my reasons. So you realize that there are limits when questions are asked. We, you know very well what we've done and you have to ask yourself a question, I'm not calling myself personally again, which was done in the year that preceded it and whether something else could have been achieved. No wonder, they don't happen. It's hard for people in Sisak, I'll never tell them how much support they've given us in the election and what they expect us to do. They don't expect miracles, they expect honest and persistent work, mistakes, then two or three less successes, then a mistake again. That's what life and politics look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13937	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13938	Well, here's the esteemed Mr. Prime Minister, the people expect you because you're the Prime Minister, because you're the government. However, if anyone wanted to make political use of the contract during our term of office when contracts were signed with the previous owner of $60 million, a $60 million investment, it was just your mayor there. She even called us Assembly MPs who were at the Parliament's session why we weren't present for this signing, but when the thing went downhill, she was gone. But I have one thing to say here, that while you were answering me, I honestly asked who you were even talking to about the mammal's hardware store. She just made the exact opposite of what you've announced here through the press. The team of Mr. Cacic obviously does not exist, and 13 advisers Mrs. Lovric do not work and receive salaries, do not come to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13939	Thank you very much. The eighth parliamentary issue is the issue of representatives of Dragutin Glava. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear President and members of the Croatian government. My question concerns the amount of compensation for using the power plant space. The fee now amounts to 0.377 and 0.385, respectively, per kilowatt hour produced and is twice as low as the mining rent paid to local self-government units for the exploitation of oil and gas and whose impact on the environment and the local population is incomparably smaller. The negative impact especially occurs in large accumulations. It is known that they directly influence the micro-climate of the surrounding area, that there is a change in the entire ecosystem, a reduction in the levels of groundwater, drying of forests and plants, increased fog, mosquitoes and new species of insects are real monsters and many other phenomena. All this certainly affects the health and quality of life of people in these areas. Therefore, in 2008, the Croatian People's Party's Representatives' Club proposed a gradual annual increase in compensation by 20 per cent in order to reach 1,125 lipa per kilowatt hour in 2013. I have to say, it's still much less than this mining rental. I ask the question of the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy to Mr. Cacic when he intends to address the question of the amount of compensation for the premises used by electricity production facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13941	Thank you very much. The response of the respected first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13942	Thank you very much for asking. You are, the Croatian public is familiar, I have no doubt that you too closely saw that we had a Mr. Zmajlović and I talks seven and eight days ago in Istria with representatives of regional, local self-government. Of course, these talks were only the conclusion of a series of previous preparatory talks, and there the prime minister clearly and publicly said that we would accept an increase in Plomin's compensation. Of course, as mentioned here, we can neither do nor want to do outside the system, beyond legal norms. There's another 95 here. Decisions on the amount of compensation for spaces used by electricity generation facilities. These fees are of course according to production, hydropower plants are one thing, thermal power plants are the other. And now not to list all those 25, 30 objects. Each one has some kind of calculation. These calculations are, of course, professionally drawn up and there are ratios between these fees. They're not the same everywhere. The ratio of these fees to mining rents is indeed inappropriate. The mining rental is incomparably higher, and from the point of view of pollution and other consequences, not just pollution, of course the damage here is obviously greater. What the Prime Minister said in Istria we will realize and carry it for you both, for Sisak and for Senj, and for Rijeka, and for Osijek, and for Zagreb, Jertovac. It's a consequence for everyone because we can't, because the ratios are set. We can't change the compensation for Plomin without synchronizing the entire system at the same time. So that's what you'll do. It won't be the amount you specified, but it'll be twice what you have now. Not you, but all those 25 energy facilities. HEP knows about it, HEP was present at these meetings, he also prepared these materials. Here's what's going to be done, it's nothing spectacular, but it's very important for all these, especially small municipalities, for their incomes. Whether their income from that rent is 300,000 or 600 for them is a lot, I don't know, 500 or a million. It's rows of size. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13943	Thank you, too, first Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Representative Dragutin Glava.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13944	So I'll agree if this is taken into consideration and normally to try and solve it in a very good way, because the situation really requires a quick solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13945	Thank you very much. The ninth parliamentary issue and the respected representative Mladen Marelic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I would ask Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic a question. These days, the current news is that the European Union will co-finance funds for the pre-study of the construction of the Peljev Bridge. The view of the map speaks sufficiently of the importance of the facility, the Croatian south and the integration of the Croatian south with the rest of the Croatian part. And soon as we connect Croatia, it will soon be part of Europe, so that we connect with it a part of the whole European. Therefore, this problem as a project to build the Peljega Bridge is part of continuous and continuous use as a means of collecting political points in recent months, and I think years already. All this confuses and empowers citizens in southern Croatia. Therefore, I would like to ask if you can explain to the Croatian citizens from the south what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing for a better connection between the Croatian South and the building of the Pelje Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13947	The President-in-Office of the Republic of Croatia, Zoran Milanovic, answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13948	Thank you, colleague Marelic. We do and do not make unreal promises nor in this promise of funding the study, i.e. in front of studies to finance the performance of the Peljega Bridge. Because when that happens and I guess one day these funds are approved, then we'll be able to confirm that. We don't open construction sites without opening funds and not providing funds to build a bridge and don't stand there like models on five occasions. That's not what we do. Because signing a contract and opening papers without funds is actually a felony. The works on that bridge were suspended before the election because there was no money. Contracts and obligations to performers remain. This government and this maritime minister had to break them up and count on common sense and understanding, the people with whom the contracts were signed. These are Croatian companies with thousands of barely surviving employees. The question is, what's it gonna be? So much for responsibility. At the same time, he and two other colleagues of foreign and regional development ministers spoke primarily in Brussels and sought space for such a European project to be funded by the European Union. That's our money, and I stress, European money is our money. We pay, we improvise one, and we get two back, but only if we justify the projects for those two. The Peleski Bridge, therefore there are no grandmas and uncles, these are very strict projects. That's why some people don't have any interest in these projects because they can't black out, there's no money on the side. That's what we're working on. I really must say that as a man, I am disappointed when I see people standing there as models on many occasions, opening the construction site of that bridge, and we said that we are against it being financed from the budget because we do not have that money, and the concessionaire has no because it is a project that is primarily important to Croatia, small and poorly populated Croatia and there is no traffic. So that's no price, that bridge is bigger than life. Bridge or sink, but that's a lot of money. And we can't be irresponsible to the citizens. And that's why we're talking, we're looking for that money. I pray that, therefore, not to use the term, it is my appeal, the European money. That's our money, too. For every kuna we want to withdraw two. Those who are successful, the most successful in that fail to pull back here. So they stay in some kind of visible plus, but no one pulled everything. And that is another answer to those who insist that the division of Croatia into two statistical regions threatens Slavonia. Well, that has nothing to do with the truth. Guys, you have education, you have some kind of political experience don't say those things. Because what we're saying now will be channeled through three short press reports, people won't understand it again. It's up to me to persistent, persistently repeat what I believe is true and worth fighting for. This is a topic we'll probably still be talking about today. He'll probably ask his opposition colleagues, too. I'll answer. There's also the theme of the border, and I just want to say in the introduction that what's been published today on the cover of one of the circulation daily newspapers is not true. It's a small part of the truth. The whole truth is much more embarrassing for those who have participated in this for the last five years. And they'll hear that truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13949	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mladen Marelić comment? ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The tenth parliamentary issue and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable members and members of the government, my question is to Minister Hajdashu-Doncic. It is about the quality of the provision of postal services in the city of Sibenik and Sibenik-Knin County as well as the very strange business policy of Croatian post office in those areas. For several years, there has been a trend in shutting down postal offices, not only in the town of Sibenik in large neighborhoods, but also in neighbouring municipalities, which thus remain entirely without the possibility of postal service. It is equally surprising that we have the ambition to be a tourist country in a big city in the administrative centre of Sibenik-Knin County, the tourist destination during the summer season offices close at 14pm and open only on Monday morning. All of this is explained by the need for rationalization. This rationalisation has taken up the city of Sibenik a lot of public services, which the citizens have not accepted with enthusiasm, and how this rationalisation really looks when it comes to the Croatian post office in the area of the town of Sibenik, I will illustrate it with one example. A few years ago, a decision was made to leave the centuries-old post office at the most attractive location for the most accessible and guests and citizens owned by the Croatian Post Office and to make a decision to go to the private company's business space for which the annual rent of about one million kuna is paid. At the same time Croatian post office in the city of Sibenik has a plot which was purchased several years ago with the intention of creating the necessary logistics centre for Croatian mail. So, he gives up using his space, gives up investment in his own assets for the amount of money a single loan would pay for the construction of such a centre is paid private rent in a million kuna per year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13951	Question, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13952	Question to Minister Dončić, are you ready, Hejdashu-Dončić, I apologize, are you ready to use your authority of the Secretary-General and to encourage positive processes and changes in business and business policy of the Croatian Post Office in Sibenik and in the area of Sibenik-Knin County, interrupt the trend of shutting down the necessary postal offices and provide citizens of the city of Sibenik and neighbouring municipalities with a quality postal service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13953	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, Minister Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13954	Thank you for asking. So, the Croatian Post Office or Croatian Post Office is a very complex issue. So when we talk about other public companies about the needs of rationalization, so those basic English core activities, so they are dealing with in the case of Croatian mail, we have to have a slightly wider view of why. In fact, there was a continuous decline trend, so postcards, certain activities or actions that were actually carried out in post offices up to some 6,7 years ago. So, first of all, there is a new development time in front of the Croatian Post office. So how to suppress the loss in basic activity, how to go out on some new markets to keep this number or some reduced number of employees, and we're talking about 10,000 people working in the Croatian Post Office today, how best to optimize that these properties and those properties that are now immobilized, so especially in the city of Zagreb, and how to meet the needs of citizens. Therefore, by the end of this month, Croatia will present the post office and some of my colleagues, so not a restructuring plan, but one strategy or a vision of Croatian mail for the next 6 years. The part will clearly include cities and municipalities as the universal service will remain a universal service of Croatian mail. And of course in this process I will say optimisation will not be forgotten either in some parts of Croatia, so that citizens remain without certain support for their services. I would like to point out that Croatia currently has 400 million kuna credit obligations and, of course, some solutions that have requested co-financing of local and regional self-government and where local and regional self-government has been involved in co-financing of postal offices, so these postal offices have survived. So now we're talking about a very, very complex process. And also, in conclusion, I am glad that no postal office on Croatian islands, as no ferry line will be abolished, has been abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13955	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. And respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13956	In a world-renowned movie hit where Kevin Costner plays the postman, the return of the postal service symbolizes the return of civilization. For this reason, I want you to understand in the right way why I have referred this question and to understand the dissatisfaction of citizens, the city of Sibenik, and the neighbouring municipalities because of the many years of decommissioning of postal offices. We are aware of the fact that the postal service is becoming less and less commercially attractive, but there are other public services and services that work much less intensively than the postal service which are needed to make some locations, in order for some cities and municipalities to have attributes of cities and municipalities. For these reasons, I hope that you will find ways and solutions to stop this trend of shutting down and taking away the possibility of providing postal services in the most remote municipalities. Because there were also cases where they had available offices co-financed by local self-government units and yet they experienced this very bad fate. Likewise, I hope you take advantage of your authority and reconsider certain business moves and their true nature. I'm happy with your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13957	Thank you, Your Honor. The 11th parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You yourself told Mr Milanovic that thanks to the former government, Croatia has a better foreign policy position. And we have indeed entered NATO, successfully completed our talks with the European Union, but what is your balance after nine months? So let's see, here's the fact that after the meeting with you at the press conference, Prime Minister Jansa actually gave a public slap when he said that Slovenia is not in a hurry to ratify our accession agreement. Knowing that this could have been prevented by a proactive policy towards our allies. But when Deputy Hillary Clinton came to Croatia, here's where you didn't have time to meet him. What is our position today, after 9 months of your government, when a Minister of Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina dares to blackmail the Croatian government and the Croatian government agrees to this logic of blackmail, because he is ultimatically seeking and saying, "There is no building of the Peljega Bridge unless you ratify an agreement on the border", which Bosnia and Herzegovina itself is not ready to ratify. But on top of that, do we now have some new foreign and European policy direction, when I see that in Rijeka, you talk about the crisis in Europe at a meeting with European Socialists, and you remember an example from the former Yugoslavia, but in what way. And I quote, you say, "We know that autonomy in the former state has led to chaos. Everyone was dragged to their side and that's why there was a war." From this statement, there is hardly any great Serb aggression as a cause of war, but rather the cause of the godless autonomy of the former republic. Because this is some new direction for our foreign and European policy, is it some new recipe like that of Belgrade's centralism to address the European crisis, because for this you certainly do not have the Croatian Parliament's mandate, for this is not what citizens voted for in a referendum on the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13959	Thank you, Your Honor. Answer, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13960	You're surprised by my silence? I expected you to ask me something about the border with Slovenia, you know a lot about it. And the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you know a lot about it. And you and a lot of people who are sitting here right now, who have been members of the government, who have been on the border committees, who have done some things, but we'll be able to talk about it slowly today. That's your business. So I wouldn't object to moving away from the darkness. Look again, it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13961	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13962	So what I'm particularly glad about today, that from this part of the Parliament there's no simple yelling, yelling, throwing, no comments, and some habits die terribly hard, it's good to see it all together. I've got four minutes and I'm gonna use those four minutes and I'm gonna try to answer this galamatias of questions. You know where the galamatias come from? Therefore, a respected colleague in order to understand Croatia must have some experience of living in Croatia. You obviously do not understand Croatian. Because to love her you can't love her if you don't understand her and if you simply can't stand such a significant part of Croatia. My answer is as understandable as your question, it's galamatias. So the answer is incomprehensible because that's the question. Where do I start? Where do I come from? You're asking me to comment on Slovenian Prime Minister's statements, you're asking me to comment on which initiatives Croatia went out, you're asking me to comment on whether I met with the Deputy State Secretary in Zagreb? These are questions for the Croatian Parliament? That's what I'm supposed to answer, is that a question? I can thank myself for this circus because I'm as a diplomat and assistant minister who isn't, and there must be a personal uninsulted, not at all but a personal one. As a diplomat who was with his minister on you, sir, and who was an ordinary small member of the party promoted people just like you, proposed them for promotion, suggested that you go to the most responsible missions such as NATO. And that's all, I mean, how can I say, is that why I'm sad? No, I knew who you were, and what you are and what your political beliefs are. No one's ever asked you that. Here, it's you. [[Intruder: It's not chauvinism.]] So this is what I'm saying to get what's best out of you, but that doesn't exist with you. There's nothing... To pull out that little human thing, and dig for nothing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How much longer do I have? It's past 20, I'll talk to you all the way. It sucks like you asked, head and tail. What else do you want to know? Do you want to know which initiatives we went out with, remember when we were together at the Foreign Ministry holding our heads when your current party was leaving the Parliament, and when the American ambassador here returned your party president who is now under the procedure to raise your hands for the participation of Croatia in the mission in Afghanistan. You know who encouraged it, Minister, I, Grdesic, Racan. These are our initiatives, but there is a Croatian interest. I think I understand him, I will fight for him to the end, I will not lobby, I will also speak with the President of the European Commission, and with those I know that I can talk to them and that the words of a Croatian statesman will reach them. Because borders aren't in the sky, we have our limits, we can't accomplish impossible things. But I say again, how much longer is there? 23 seconds. I'll stick to the law, wait for you to question the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are several of you such crown witnesses of what you've been doing in the last year and a half, which is documented, signed, initialled. To repeat, what's published on the cover today is a small part of the truth, but the truth is as big as the ocean, and we're good sailors and we'll know each other in that sea. Three seconds, over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13963	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here's a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13964	Not only am I not satisfied, but I think that you have really responded chauvinistly in a way to say that everyone who is not born in the Republic of Croatia, who comes from the Croatian diaspora, does not love Croatia because they cannot understand it. But let's let it go, you didn't answer my question at all today, you only said exactly that what was published in the newspaper today that you placed incorrectly. And it is indeed incorrect because in the 2010 report itself, it is clear that it is said that there have not been conditions to work on ratification conditions yet. And the commission's report that year said Croatia does not intend to ratify the agreement. Of course everything was analysed but there was no such decision to ratify because it was not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why from that experience, I'm really serious about telling you, Mr. Milanovic, when it comes to this agreement, don't fall into that ratification like a goose in the fog.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13965	Thank you very much. Next issue of the 12th and honourable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13966	Your Honor, Vice President. I want to ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, and it simply concerns Puris of Pazin or St. Peter in the Forest, anyway. I personally think it's the problem of Istria one today, clearly with that thermal power plant. So, what does the government intend to do to help Puris? At least we should send it, well the government can't send it, but come on, the State's Attorney's office because it shouldn't be who it is, cave. If this Croatia were to be as economically decorated as it was for that gentleman or another which I know you, etc. Then it would just be a happy country. Then Yugoslavia was electrified, industrially raised, touristly valorised, it was built I don't know refineries, ironworks etc. And now, as a rule, we're only dealing with bankruptcy amongst other things and this in Puris. Puris means in 2001 Walter Wolf comes in, enters as an easy cavalry of the HYPO bank. The same way he entered Marasca, entered KIO Karlovac, etc. After that, HYPO's bank is given in and they are Gavrilovic for 1 kuna plus that 14.5m-euro loan. Gavrilović 2009. He's cutting off Puris's store. They're being taken over by Dion. In 2009, the farms were full, the silos were full, the warehouses were full, the 2010 processing was withdrawn from St. Peter in Petrinja. In a year with 3.5 million kg, the processing dropped to a million and a half kg, etc., etc. The silos are empty today. Thank you to a Vindy for giving a soybean, soy, corn, last month's last salary, 305 is the decision of a trade court or that bankruptcy court today on hold, etc. I personally believe that there has been an enemy takeover of Gavrilovic, before Walter Wolf, and I am really asking the question of whether in such chaos the government can help those 305 people get back to work as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13967	Thank you very much. And the answer to the parliamentary question, dear Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Cain, unfortunately I must agree with you that a company that has a 50-year tradition that was the leader in the production of turkey, chicken not only in the Republic but in the wider region has unfortunately gone bankrupt at 9 September this year. The bankruptcy itself was launched at the Trade Court in Rijeka by the administration of Puris for a number of reasons, indifference, inability to pay, inability to organise a quality production cycle itself, inability to repay credit. You yourself said in 2008, the majority owner is Gavrilovic, 2008 enters the ownership structure with over 98%, bought it for 1 kuna for the obligation to repay almost 15m euros in credit. The restructuring and production process itself did not go in the direction that it should, 500 workers who were working at the time were brought into a situation to first close the livestock food plant and then decline itself. In 2011, they end with some 32 million kunas of debt and inability of a quality production organisation in the company itself. In the end, all this applies between the HYPO bank as a believer of the largest and the very Gavrilovic, or Puris. The number of workers fell in some 305 workers and the only way was to de facto enter or open bankruptcy proceedings. Now the bankruptcy process is under difficult conditions, the workers of two last salaries are not paid, or the bankruptcy manager has given contracts to work for a certain time, trying to organize production that is very difficult to do, given that significant funds should be invested in the cycle... or in the production itself. The agriculture ministry has been following the situation in this once-renominated company all these months with concern. Unfortunately, we couldn't react because we're saying it was a private company and there was no imputation by the union and neither by the owners or management of the company themselves. Now the situation is that it is in bankruptcy, we will do everything in our ability to find a quality strategic partner, that all steak holders all... in this cycle including banks but also local and regional administrations include in saving production, maintaining production, setting up Puris on their feet as they are. Fortunately there are certain activities, there are winemakers on the market who are interested in this important, significant brand in the production of turkey meat that has its own tradition, has its own history, has its own perspective of trying to put on healthy new ones in a programme of restructuring back to the old branches it was on. The food or processing industry in a state of crisis is something that is a very important segment of the economy that can achieve good results, and here we see both the possibility and the chance for Puris. I will repeat once again, it is very important that all the defendants including banks and trade unions, or workers themselves, but also local and regional administrations, are involved in solving this problem. As a ministry, we will be some kind of support, as well as other examples of fallen companies that are in front of bankruptcy or bankruptcy, I am talking about the Chepin Oil Factory, the Kaštelan greenhouses, Agroduhan from Slatina, regional wholesalers, we are doing everything we can to make sure that every one of those productions that is perspective that has a tradition, which has a brand we save to keep our jobs and to improve the production itself. So it will be with Puris, we hope for positive results, and we hope that in the region we will have an important economic operator that has been, in some way, the leader of the processing industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13969	Thank you very much, Minister. Comment Commissioner Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13970	I have no reason to be unsatisfactory, though. I welcome the government's care. This government didn't eat onion or onion or smell, and it's up to this tragedy that happened to Puris, and that's what needs to be said. Normally, I'll be happy at the moment when 305 people get back to work. Puris was a brand, he was a term, they had everything. Some people came from Wolf through HYPO bank to Gavrilovic just ruined everything. I'm really asking the government to put some pressure on the court not on the bankruptcy manager, good for the bankruptcy managers according to my information. Maybe it's not to do similar things in the future if it's government jurisdiction at all. That the government is talking to these big trade chains that they may in some way help and take care of something that is really in the right sense of that word as you point out was once the concept of the food industry in the Republic of Croatia, not in Croatia, but in the then Yugoslavia, and that's why I was also quoting on the trail and the Prime Minister's advance of that gentleman or other that I know you, etc., but the question is whether these things would happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13971	Thank you very much. The 13th parliamentary question, the esteemed representative of Suncic Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13973	A little collegiation. Let the esteemed representative ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13974	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. Inspecting the Ministry of Environmental Protection in June made a decision prohibiting the disposal of waste at an illegal dump in Varazdin, I believe you heard about it, on September 11th. By completely ignoring the decision, therefore, the inspection decision is a new solution and extends the implementation of the decision to 30 and 60 and 45 more days. It is, Prime Minister, an illegal promotion, an example of law enforcement, inspection, scandalous and harmful management of the ministry and what a message it is to all our inspectors. In violation of the laws and standards of environmental protection, citizens living in the area of the City of Varazdin with more than 100 thousand bales of waste are directly exposed. You should come and see it. I beg you, the first vice president knows very well what this is about, I beg you to come to Varazdin and look at it. Besides, when people get sick, they'll come to the Varazdin hospital and face even bigger problems there. They're postponing chemotherapy, no medication, and it's an alarming condition. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, when you will finally, once and for all, ban illegal, immoral, harmful and per capita, for their health, but also for the environment dangerous baling and piled waste. When will you stop fees for such illegalities and when you will do everything, because you are the Prime Minister, not to be questioned by people's lives and health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13975	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Answer, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13976	Dear fellow Glavak, you know everything, you have both expressed your attitude and judgment, qualifications, reasoning, and I will answer you anyway, try to answer your question. It's been a mess for eight years, and now it should be settled in half a year? We'll try it in a year. So because of this case, people associated with various political options get out of prison, or jail on bail. They're not yet legally convicted, they'll be or won't be in, and I don't want to go in and you're bringing the word in this way. I don't think that's correct. I can politically manage the processes, give instructions, I can do a lot of things, like any president or president of the government, but I can't exactly cross some limits of jurisdiction and competence of inspection because the next step is to tell the courts what to do. The inspections are parapressive bodies operating under the law and if we are dissatisfied with their work we will change the legal framework or if someone really violates the law, if criminally responsible will answer. But you know very well that in organized societies, executive power has its limits. This limit must not serve as an excuse to escape from responsibility, we have seen it in politics for years and will not serve us. As you can see, we make bad decisions, they're not popular, they're not cute. Warm-up, am I moving away from the subject, may I speak?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13977	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13978	Either we force Croatian citizens, all who pay to aliminate and finance the losses of HEP, or we will do something that has resulted in a postponement of decisions for the last three years, a postponement of decisions. If everyone in HEP were fired, and in heat as part of HEP, if everyone got fired right now, 6% would be saved at costs. So it's all in the supply, they're huge and we have to make decisions. But I'm away from the subject. You've said what you think, obviously you know more about it than I do, and I can only promise order, or if it doesn't suit someone, if it's too strict, if it suggests a dictatorship, if it's cleaning the house, if it's winding up, so that people are doing things by the rules, and that example comes from the top of the government. I say there's gonna be mistakes, there's failures, there's awkwardness, but the important thing is there's no intense corruption, there's no bribery, there's no such thing, and the public doesn't see it because it loses faith in institutions and thinks we're all the same, and we know we're not. What to make you promise, respect for the law, so you know I'm up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13979	Thank you very much. Commentary, distinguished representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13980	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you, Mr. Prime Minister, it's embarrassing that it collects electricity, it's embarrassing that it collects gas, it's embarrassing that it collects everything at the expense of the citizens. It is equally embarrassing that the inspection has banned the disposal of waste, and the ministry, or the new minister, says no, which we care about the inspection, continue to delay. That's what this is about, that's what I'm talking about. You're the Prime Minister, you're not a day-to-day analyst, so please answer us that way. You were elected by Croatian citizens, be responsible. And as for health services, I must tell you that in this year, there will be a significant decline in health services. We warned that 4 billion kunas reduced money to the health system, which is unfortunately this way. We don't need a spare prime minister, we need a health minister who will care equally about county hospitals, about the health of all people, and we also need a prime minister who will answer our questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13981	Thank you very much. Next 14th parliamentary issue and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13982	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. The agreement on the state border between Croatia and BiH, signed in 1999, was signed by the then president of Croatia, Dr. Franjo Tudjman and Ali Izetbegovic, president of BiH, but the agreement has not been ratified. In fact, the agreement lays down the borders between the two countries and the land and sea borders between the two countries, but I say it is not ratified. But these days, we often hear very heavy accusations against the government, at the expense of the prime minister, at the expense of all those who could raise their hands for ratification. They even mention very harsh words and curses. My question is to you prime minister, which is essentially, what is the government's motive for going into ratification of this agreement right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13983	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The answer is given by Croatian Prime Minister respected Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13984	Dear fellow Shimac, thank you for asking me this, because so far no one is from the opposition, the majority opposition parties and how things stand or will not be among those who know the truth about it. Maybe ask someone or someone who knows less. But those who know the secret are obviously out here on the list. So these won't ask that question maybe because they feel that minimal human discomfort, maybe for that. Well, for starters, let's break it up or break it up with something. It's a border contract, actually a border contract. In this House two years ago, plus, we ratified the arbitration agreement with Slovenia's two-thirds majority a little less than two years ago. And regardless of this mess in the nomenclature and in the nomoch of the articles of the Constitution, it turns out that the constitutional basis for ratification was a two-thirds majority. We argued a little about it, but in the end, the contract got a two-thirds majority but it was also a condition to the Constitution. Is that exactly how it's supposed to be or isn't maybe better that, because the Constitution is not clear and does not define clearly what it is to change the border. He's just saying that he's changing the border. Is it like a border change when you have a border contract next door, so you have a limit? Only by the basis of a bilateral contract do I base your wishes, when he tells you, you know we agreed to give you 5h of our territory. Is that what a two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament needs? Hardly. But that's a possibility, too. So the Constitution is imprecise. But so we don't fight about it, but to make it clear again who's talking about who's doing what and who's responsible and who's not responsible, we'll talk about it. Now in these four minutes, and probably one of you will ask that question. My colleagues and colleagues, I beg you because I need more time, and I can't violate the Rules of Procedure. So what I want to say here is we've been thinking a lot about it, the initiative is ours, mine, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brussels has nothing to do with it. It's a state-of-the-art attitude. I can also make a mistake in it, that this contract, or the border agreement, is still ratified by a two-thirds majority. I can see we won't have it. If the arbitration treaty is ratified, I say termus technicus are contracts, so they taught us that in fact it is more correct regardless of what is called both the contract and the agreement. So if I get it mixed up, you know what I'm talking about. So if the arbitration agreement that gave the third body the arbitration powers to fully determine the border and to oscillate it in hectares and hectares without our influence if it took a two-thirds majority then for this agreement with Bosnia in which we negotiated ourselves, we have a much greater autonomy, then perhaps it shouldn't. But I'm still going to suggest that a two-thirds majority be sought. You can stay calm, and now we're going to the facts. So, with Slovenia in one way. You have raised your hand here with us, or we together with you two years ago to ratify the arbitration treaty that we later negotiated with one body, as soon as we came to power first week with Slovenians to give power to draw the Croatian border. We have no idea what she'll look like. It's not a couple of wrinkles. It can be a much bigger area, and we'll accept that. And that's okay? Well, I think it's okay. If you think it's okay then it's okay and yes, I think we ratify the contract that we signed with the neighbouring country that we worked on for 13 years where we set ourselves up on some issues and it's terrible to listen to you now characterise the late president. You don't want to hear it, whether it's time, whether it's time. You don't want the truth that was ignored by a man who died two and a half months ago, three months after he signed a contract that couldn't even be ratified for the next five years because five years of commissions worked on the ground. And now we have what we have. Cross-border, the Croatian Border Commission has on several occasions recommended ratification of the agreement. Last time in April 2010. She was headed by Secretary of State Bozinović. The government knew that. The ministers who are sitting here and may not have negotiated, not just the foreign minister, were aware of that. That's what the Prime Minister knew. So our commission, which is the Croatian side of the interstate commission, has recommended that the agreement be ratified. After that, the meeting in July 2010 was said to be removed, to create conditions for ratification. We can still interpret that if we're gonna be con men in our own way. But before that, he also said in a statement you initialled along with colleagues from Bosnia and Herzegovina that it was a valuable, important and authentic contract. There's not a single gesture, a word, a letter, a face against that contract. Now I'm gonna stop, now I'm gonna stop here. Now I'm gonna stop for that face, you know what a face is. It's the truth that bothers you. Okay. Now, here I stand. I'm going to continue this story, and I expect you direct HDZ representatives to ask this same question that I can continue. If you don't set it up, I'll think you're afraid of the truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13985	Thank you very much. I estimated that the interest of the Croatian public is to hear the answer completely. Those who have obstructed listening to the answer have the right to anger and to ask the Committee on the Constitution Thank you very much. [[Invadica Milanović: I can menu!]] I'd like a representative, a respected Tatjana Bonačić Shimac, to make a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13986	Thank you very much. As you said and I think it is very important for the citizens of Croatia to have confidence in the government and I hope you will still have the opportunity to talk about it because it is a very important approach and a very important approach to solving fundamental issues and certainly one of the fundamental issues is the administrative resolution of the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13987	Thank you very much. The next 15 questions come from a respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13988	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I hope that the prime minister will thank me for the question as well as for the honourable representative. The Croatian path to the European Union, of course, is not filled with roses, stars, but with thorns. I'm just afraid that in that Latin proverb, per aspera ad asstra could end up in thorns again. The two most important issues related to this trip to the European Union are certainly Croatia's borders. Already mentioned as you called Mr. Prime Minister two stones in the Adriatic Sea, the Tudjman-Izetbegovic agreement, which some claim to be part of the counterfeit, is based on falsifications from the garnery. There is certainly an arbitration agreement, an arbitration agreement with Slovenia, so there is also a disputed contract Racan – Drnovšek. We've probably turned out to be liars and con men, too. There is an open question with Serbia, Vukovar, Sarengrad Ada. There are even two settlements in the municipality of Draž Kenji and Karapanja where nearly 20 inhabitants live and where they cannot enter Serbia without a Croatian passport. There is also an open issue of Croatian borders with Montenegro. And I am curious whether we are solving these issues exclusively under EU pressure, and is this government just the climate as the EU says, or do we really want to address these open issues? Question number two, and here's the first time I've heard
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13989	One question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13990	No, no. The second problem that is related to the EU, I heard for the first time that representatives from Slavonia and Baranja are half-world, do you know Mr. Prime Minister and would you also call the first vice-president of the government half-world because he made the decision to call the referendum for the same reason that Slavonia also came to his feet? Do you know that in a paid study, Minister Grcic was in favour of three statistical regions? Do you know that all European funds will be collected by public companies? Public interest, Mr. Vice President. In the end, do you know that in Slavonia, and a saying goes, "Whoever stones you, you bread him?" Unfortunately, we don't have the bread to throw away thanks to the government's decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13991	Dear Zoran Milanovic, Prime Minister, respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13992	You have a lot more than bread, of course I'm talking about all the people in Slavonia that I know as much as I do, and I've worked with you before you went your way, you know the reason, and appreciated some of the things you've done. On this second part, these ruffian six questions, I can't answer, I'll concentrate on this first. Before that, just a sentence – these are not administrative regions, these are statistical regions. Your colleague whose statement I responded to began with a sentence of the administrative region. I know he's not a Harvard doctor, but he doesn't know the difference between administrative and statistical, so that's gonna be hard to convince me. And that difference is huge, galactic. The administrative ones are one thing, it's management, it's power, and the statisticals are the base of the platforms. You know the difference? You know. No one's gonna take any of Slavonia. It's a simple lie, and I'm going to repeat it 100 times, and I know enough about it to be able to discuss it with you at least. We are concerned about boundaries, at the end of this House, our Croatian Parliament. With Serbia-Montenegro, we have a slightly more complicated situation, we will not solve it so quickly, but we will never blackmail them into using any harsher word in the way it was done towards Croatia. We won't. The border there works, more Croatian on the other side of the Danube than Serbian on this one. It's a fact, but it'll take patience. No one's setting us up and you know very well any conditions on that side. Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot set conditions for us. Bosnia and Herzegovina's minister who said one reckless unconnected thing here can say that, but it has absolutely no impact on anything. Croatia can build that bridge whenever it wants. This is simply about the desire to show that Croatia respects international law, to respect what was signed by its sovereign who was not a greedy, bewildered old man but was a man who knew what he was doing at the time. It's about 1001 km of border, it's about 100 situations that mean life to people, it's about Zrinski city, which is Croatian, but you need to get the other side to sign it. If anything is Croatian, it's Zrinski grad. What's the name of the club in Mostar? Zrinski! Are we gonna talk about this? Are we gonna get people up there? That's what I'm talking about. The criteria were clear. The president then, who I never voted for, knew what he was doing. The contract couldn't be signed in the '90s, don't make a fool out of it, followed by five years of work. You have twice begun the ratification procedure, last time at a very serious level at the level of people who were of the highest confidence in the government in July 2010. Of those people who were directly involved in this today, two former prime ministers and another decent silence, but one who knew everything speaks and teaches lessons. Well, my men, we're going to act like a state. This is a great situation to show that we are a civilized European state, not to fall for local patriots who are nothing but local patriots. When we said we were working on the bridge, the second conflict immediately. Well, we can't build relationships on conflicts all the time. It's a bad country, our neighbors. The Croats mostly live downstairs. Being a Croat, having a nation doesn't mean being blindly selfish, means being rational if you want to calculate. This border has been negotiated calculatedly in Croatian interest. It's about 1,000 km of border, the Zrin town, the regimes where diplomatic commissions have been in the field for 6 years 200 m of fair, 200 m of there negotiating territory and eventually signed everything. Do you know? And that must be known, let them know in BiH, let them know Croatian citizens. Do you know how much Croatia has won and how much Bosnia has won? Croatia received 15 hectares higher. Here, now someone in BiH is likely to rebel over it. But they need to know that, they need to know that. So, Croatian is what I feel that, however, I can't argue that something is not Croatian or two lices, I can't claim in this situation any more because the president of the state knows what he's doing signed the contract. And as you can see, I'm not going into a debate over the cadastres, the geodettes, although there are a variety of arguments. Let's not act like a colonial force. We dominate the Adriatic, it's all ours, and it'll be ours. Bosnia and Herzegovina closes towards the Open Sea not the Croatian Territorial Sea but the inner sea. Those who know something about international law know it's not exactly a regular situation. That's where Bosnia could make a lot of noise. And I have to say this in public because these are things that are already being spoken on diplomatic committees and which other side is substituting with law. To respect us, we must respect others. We need to respect international contracts. And lastly, we can do two things, or ratify that contract as it is, as proposed by senior HDZ officials a year and a half ago, the documents are here and in Sarajevo, or withdraw from the contract and say it's not worth it. How do you say ausbach – goodbye, withdraw from the contract. We do not think about what Sarajevo is going to do, although there are reasonable people there as well as in Banja Luka. Tertium non datetur – no third. There's no ad hoc arbitration, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The signed must be respected, it's not a paraphras, it's a signature. Let's respect ourselves, respect our national legal continuity, respect our commitments or fully withdraw from the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13993	Thank you very much. Zoran Vinkovic is a respected representative, a commentary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13994	Well, I've been looking for what says "expression" not "satisfaction" with an answer. Of course I'm not happy with this answer. I also expected the Prime Minister to answer these few raf questions relating to statistical regions, I know what statistics are, and what is administrative division, it was probably the first Deputy Prime Minister of the then Mayor Cacic when he made the decision on a referendum for the same reasons that Slavonia is on his feet today. So, considering Mr. President and taking care of your health because you're making promises that Slavonia won't be forgotten and even saying it's drying my right hand. I wouldn't want your health to be compromised. I request a written answer to all these questions, a special reference to that study of the Faculty of Economics from 3 statistical regions and from 5 administrative regions in the Republic of Croatia. So, I wish you good health, don't pour false promises, but first of all help Slavonia, because in Slavonia there is no half-world living, living Croats and Croats, Croatian citizens who are hungry today, and that was once the richest region. Thanks to the ministry's mini tax reform, an increasing number of units of local self-government have been destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13995	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13996	Look, the prime minister spoke 1.48 more. I'm only saying 38.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13997	And it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13998	That seems to you. As for one common road, I will remind you that the prime minister was actively restrained when it came to the arbitration agreement with Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u13999	Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14000	...which is the worst thing they've brought together by both HDZ and SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14001	Thank you very much. We move on to the next parliamentary issue number 16 and the esteemed representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14002	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my question, I'm referring to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Mrs. Milanki Opacic. Madam Vice President, my question is about the recent events, that is, when you brought about a dozen days ago, respecting the find of competent inspections, the decision to close the home for mentally ill adults in Bresnica Đakovačka in Levanska Varosha. After that, the public had the opportunity to be familiar, I dare say with the terrible data about how these protégés lived in that home, how inhuman, inhuman, under every human level of life they were forced, almost, so I would call it at the border with slavery. What I think no citizen in Croatia, who was familiar with it, read, could remain indifferent to it. What I'm interested in right now, but I believe the general public, and that's what's going to happen in the future? In the sense that, whether or not those criminal charges which have already been filed against the responsible persons will be finally and realised. But not only at the level of those who ran that home, we are interested in who it was in the former Ministry of Health and Social Care, who had the power to ignore finding their own inspections, because there were several who recommended closing that home. And finally, what can we citizens, but also the protégés of other homes and similar institutions in Croatia expect in politics, future policy of you, or your ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14003	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Milanka Opačić reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14004	Yes, it is a home where for seven years the inspection had negative findings that warned of poor treatment for the protégé. In those seven years, they were filed by an inspection of some criminal charges. One of them also refers to a medical technician who, unfortunately, beat up psychically ill protégés and shut them down in the basement room. Unfortunately, none of these applications so far have in any way ended up with any court sanctions. We've filed new applications. As for those who were in the ministry, or who were not involved in social care, I can only say that obviously the inspection was awaiting political will, because it was about 120 protégés who had to be temporarily placed somewhere, as we have now done. Because when the inspection closes, it's basically people on the street or you have to take them somewhere, which isn't a matter of inspection, it's a job of that political part. What is actually even worse is that despite all inspection findings and inspections warnings in 2010, a new contract has been signed between the ministry and the private home on the accommodation of an additional number of protégés. So here it was systematically going on the hands of a private person who owned that home, apparently being saved from credit, credit failure, and there was no view of what conditions the protégés live in. So this was about the abuse of mentally ill people. We also have homes where there is no abuse, but they are in very poor material conditions because they are located in buildings over a hundred years old. It's often also about cultural monuments where we can't, literally touch anything. One of those homes that is in extremely poor condition is home in Istria, so in Nedestina Istria, however, we are here in negotiations with the County of Istria where we should provide as much resources as we can. And we're going to try to look for maybe some sponsors from Istria who could possibly still help make this home a much better space conditions than the ones where the protégés live today. So, we are interested in protecting, above all, the users of our institutions. It's a big system where more than 20 and a few thousand users are taken care of. This was primarily a message that our protégés were in the first place, and the second message is that it's not going like this in the system anymore. Therefore, this is a reminder to all those who receive money every month from our system, who receive taxpayers' money, and primarily for the purpose of taking care of the protégé. And psychically ill persons are those protégés who unfortunately never complain and can never raise their voice for living conditions. So it's our job to protect them, to provide them with proper conditions, and what's minimum if they already live in poor spatial conditions, that at least no one closes them, that no one beats them, that no one abuses them, that they don't eat potatoes and cabbage, that they don't work somewhere for 2 cigarettes. So, indeed, they have a minimum of human dignity in these accommodation facilities. So this was a message that we will no longer tolerate such behavior, we will close down every institution where we discover such behavior. This was the only one we know for now, so by inspection, which doesn't mean that in the next period we may not discover any more irregularities. But I have to say, from now on, we insist that all 6 and a half thousand social workers will have a personal responsibility for any unhappiness and any such behavior in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14005	A comment of pleasure is the Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14006	Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14007	Thank you very much. The 17th parliamentary issue and respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Rural Development and European Union funds to Mr Branko Greece. I believe that Mr Grcic is the most competent answer to this question since he also has European funds, or European Union funds, in his portfolio. And my question, you guess, refers to statistical regions that are already quite said. Dear Mr. Minister, after the government made a decision to divide Croatia into two statistical regions, it caused a heated reaction by many politicians in Slavonia who often did not choose words that would collapse on this government decision as we unfortunately could see today in this home. But I learned not to trust politics specifically called because I have repeatedly convinced myself that it spreads deception but I believe arguments and trust exact data. So I would ask you to tell me exactly how much money will be available to Croatia and how much is that ratio to the funds used so far? I would also like you to explain the logic behind the division of Croatia into two statistical regions and whether this can in any way affect Slavonia or any other Croatian region in a depreciated position when withdrawing money from the EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14009	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14010	Thank you, well-respected representative Hajdukovic. So, there's a lot of words here and the heavy ones fell today I mean without need. I think one question that is largely a technical issue but, of course, with very important repercussions raised to a level of a few excellence issues political. Watch out, how many, six years ago, we started this process in Croatia and then we started from 5 regions. Some will remember, then the Head of State's Office paid his head because he himself sent a proposal from 5 regions because it is simply an important political issue and the need for the government to be aware of what the institution in this case is doing. Then the Economic Institute made a proposal for 8 variants. In these variants, of course, this division was also divided into 2 regions and divisions into 3 and 4 and 5 regions, and they were all considered and negotiated with the EU Commission and, of course, when none of these regions were to fit into the criteria in which they were to be incorporated, then an additional study was made that offered two more divisions and both of them were in three regions where the difference was in relation to this valid region that Karlovačka and Sisak-Moslavina County were together with Zagreb and these 5 counties of the Northwest. Yes, we who worked on it then have assessed that we did so then would not have happened this leap over 75% before joining the EU and we should actually not touch anything at all at this moment. But then the prime minister decided otherwise, so the literally prime minister then decided what division would be between the two. And it was so going to Brussels it was accepted, we had it until yesterday. Even when the voice rose about it, we said the same thing, people have no problems, so in three years, the question of regional change can be raised in cycles of every three years. Now, by the end of June of this year, the new 276 regions plus Croatia were to be defined throughout Europe plus 278, now the region and we have joined the train and practically one serious job we have done in a very short time. One Slovenia of the state in which the whole country was and one NUC 2 region has been negotiating with the EU for 2 years to divide Slovenia into two regions, the poor east and the western richer part of Slovenia, and we have actually done this job in 2 months. What options were in play? Yes, you're right again were in play and 5 regions and 4 regions and transformations to 3 regions and this variant for 2 regions. Do we need 800 times if we have to, and we'll do 800 times again? The city of Zagreb, which we all thought could reach 800,000 people on the new census. Exactly the letter and number of 792 thousand people has the city of Zagreb and as such cannot be a special region. The appeal to Bratislava in Slovakia is an old story, a story that was completed before 2003 when the latest new regulation on the definition of NUC 2 regions was adopted, and this regulation defined a precise framework. Yes, that was the criterion, which is why the 5-regional variant as well as the 4-variance in which Zagreb would be drawn from the northwestern region. Yeah, we talked about it all. Look at my statement in Brussels when I first met Mr. Han about this topic and still has it on the portal Yes, I was talking about 4 regions and we came to these two regions that in no way threaten Slavonia, in any way and help these counties in northwestern Croatia to be in a position equal to everyone else. [[Intruder: Time.]] Slavonia will not be forgotten in the part where projects are to be co-financed, and no other part of Croatia will be forgotten because there is therefore the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds and that is its mission and goal. I'm sorry I don't have a few more minutes to explain, but here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14011	Thank you very much. Showing satisfaction, respected MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14012	Thank you very much, Vice President. I am pleased with the question, especially with your last sentences, and then I would take this opportunity to invite all the people in Croatia who work on it to be constructive to start working, to write projects to ultimately withdraw as much money from EU funds as possible to stop politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14013	Thank you very much. Was there any damage to the Rules of Procedure? Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14014	I didn't get this consolidated text, but I think the minister should be telling the whole truth here, so that's how the Rules of Procedure got hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14015	What provision?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14016	You forgot to say that in Europe... The EU Recommendation. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] That there are far too many regions in Europe with far fewer inhabitants than those famous 800 thousand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14017	Agent Vinkovic, is the Rules of Procedure for you? Is it worth it to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14018	... Djakovo, in the EU, is the same advantage of the project as 37m euros. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] I don't know where you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14019	Agent, you've really hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I'm gonna tolerate today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14020	I don't have a consolidated text. I listened to a very good answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14021	... Agent Vinkovic. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14022	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14023	Representative Vinkovic, please at least stick to the Rules of Procedure from correctness to the other MPs. We can do it differently, but don't make me do it. Thank you very much. The next 18th parliamentary issue is respected representative Sandra Petrovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14024	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will ask my question to Justice Minister Orsat Miljanic. My question concerns land books in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we all know that the state of land books in the Republic of Croatia is a painful point of justice and that it is practically not a week past that citizens and businesses or lawyers do not complain publicly, that the land books in the Republic of Croatia are not arranged. The most common complaint in this regard is that I cannot obtain within a reasonable period of time documents from land books, and often that the state of the ownership documents does not correspond to the real state. My question is what the Justice Department is doing to provide citizens with orderly and quickly available land-book property documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14025	Thank you very much. Answer, Honorable Minister Orsat Miljanic. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14026	Thank you very much. So, at this point, the Croatian average in land-booking solving is 34 days, so I'm talking about the Croatian average. Unfortunately, however, we have 10 courts where the average is more than 100 days, some more than 300, so that is Croatian reality. On the other hand, we have 10 courts where the average is 1. So it's the initial situation we started with. We have a discrepancy in the cataster and land-book states. Only a partial record of the catastrian state has been recorded so that it can be evenly coordinated. What we do, we do on three levels. One of the concrete actions that I am about to present to you is the other changes to the law that will come before the Parliament very soon and the third is the information that follows. So, as far as concrete actions are concerned, we're headed right for these courts where the proceedings are the longest. Now the court in Makarska, which had over 6000 leftover cases, is looking forward to an average of over 300 days, so for 300 days, the citizen waited for the words of the ZK. By the end of the year, there won't be any delays. The way we do it, we do it so that we have created a special team of ZK referents, which in fact in Zagreb digitally solves the files in Makarska under one, and the other neighbouring courts are helping to verify these ZK departments. So this model that is applied in Makarska will then be applied in Supetar and Krk, after which Pag will connect with Zadar, so Pag will solve this way, Stari Grad will help Pula partially through this way, Mali Lošinj, Rijeka and it will actually cover these vessels that are most endangered at this moment. There remains a court in Split where, despite the increase in the number of employees, productivity continues to decline, i.e. waiting increases. Now it's being analyzed, but there's going to be a concrete action on that. What might be more important than this because these are not permanent solutions, these are fire-fighting solutions that we have to make for citizens are legal changes. Very soon there will be changes to the Law on Land Books that will bring several newspapers that we are confident will speed up these proceedings. First of all, we all know that delivery is a general problem. In this case, delivery will also be made through means of public communication in certain cases and will certainly speed up resolution in certain areas. The second is the role of the ZK referents. So in everything we do, we come from the fact that judges are too valuable and that we keep them only for the most difficult and the most controversial things. So most of the jobs will be carried out by the ZK reference. It will free the judges that they can deal with precisely those more complex objects that require special knowledge. After that, what Croatia is completely unedited or not completely but quite but quite and as to practice because practice in certain parts of the country significantly deviates because of the tradition we had, influences etc. This law also provides for the establishment of a court of appeal to coordinate practice throughout the country and to finally begin to even the issue of practice. What I think is also very important, we're going to bring changes to... Therefore, the judge will be able to decide on certain matters, not always to go to the appeal court and go back down to what is wasting time, and some things can be resolved already in that part of the procedure. [[You don't understand.]] We're going to simplify a whole series of procedures and we're going to finally prescribe some of the things that are now being done, from the right procedure to the next, and they're not really detailed about how they should be. Third thing, parallel to what's going on, it's a continuation of information. Information is actually the key, these are all, they are the projection measures, this is the legal framework, but the information will allow us to do the following.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14027	Time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14028	I'm sorry, so let me cut it short. Very soon we will see the effects of information in the Zagreb court, we will begin with a pilot project where the Zagreb court will later be able to issue excerpts for other courts by all courts in the country. Therefore, citizens will not be able to go to a concrete court, but in one court they will be able to win for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. I can't go on. I don't have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14029	Thank you very much. Showing satisfaction, respected representative Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14030	Thank you very much. I am, of course, pleased with the answer, and I hope that he will also be pleased once the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, at the very least, are most concerned by this. I will just once again point out that land books, land books are one of the assumptions of legal certainty, and that the state in which legal security is a natural state is actually the state in which we want to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14031	Thank you very much. And two more parliamentary questions up to half the number of questions and we'll give one break. Next, the 19th parliamentary issue and the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, there are many topics related to the Croatian south, more specifically to the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. I will not ask you about the Pelješko bridge and remind you that Croatia has done a study in 2007 on the cost of building the Pelješko bridge for what you received today after 5 years of money from the European Union, 200 thousand euros you received to make that study that Croatia made in 2007. You really want to build it or we won't see it, but what we can figure out for now is that you've stopped building the Peles Bridge. I could also ask you about the ratification of this agreement, but we agreed at the club to have another representative ask you that question, but I could ask you if you even read the book of Dubrovnik scientist who proved that this contract was based on a 1974 counterfeit. The book was published by scientists, academicist Vekaric, who is a member of the HNS, Stjepan Cosic, who is a member of the SDP and Niko Kapalic who is a member of the HDZ. So it has nothing to do with politics, it has to do with the truth. If you read that, you can't send it to the Parliament for ratification of that agreement. But I'm going to ask you something that also means life to the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, so I'm going to ask you about the Upper Horizons. Namely, farmers and environmental associations from the Neretva valley both claim that the realization of the second phase of the project will have a negative impact on the Neretva valley. The project "The Upper Horizon", which builds six power plants in the eastern Herzegovina, will lead to water exposure, so Neretva's plantation will occur and the Neretva valley will be destroyed. I want to ask you a question, first of all, why no one is by the Dubrovnik-Neretva County involved in these talks, and no one from local self-government is involved, and they are directly concerned. Secondly, you may know what about the Environmental Impact Study for this project. And third, why your Jerusalem right hand First Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Cacic is negotiating the implementation of this system with an entity representative, not with a representative of the state as foreseen by the interstate agreements between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14033	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the respected Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14034	Thank you. Dear fellow Matusic, you have asked seven, eight questions depending on how we interpret them. We don't have to be rhetorical. We all make mistakes. But I can't answer those seven, eight questions. They're in a wide range. The upper horizons, so if that's the case, because you obviously know better than I do, then it won't be built, if that's the case. It's an important condition. You obviously know better. If it leads to Neretva, then we won't build. Is that how we'll see it? That's what the profession will say how political manipulations often say, and they don't think so. That's the answer to your question. I hope it pleases you. As for including local authorities and counties, look here we have bad experience. Let's just say with your county where it's local, your majority of me would say so if there was a cynical opposition to changing the spatial plan, and in order to introduce a ferry line where it's the shortest until the bridge is built. That's what we want, so that people from next year can cross quickly. So that's five minutes by ferry. Let us explain, I can't ask you a question in this format. Who is it, if his Croatian interest is somewhere down at the bottom of his shoe. Who can think and act like that? What do we do? Change the laws, break the laws, take your powers and your counties? So people refuse to change the spatial plan so they can't drive a ferry until the bridge is built. Otherwise, we didn't interrupt the work. Work's been cut long before. Nothing was done there and she threatened to punish a contract. They threatened the foams to the performers because the state didn't pay the services they did. It's not an orderly state, it's not a rule of law. After the election, we sat down with these unfortunate companies, and they agreed to come out. It may easily come back very soon, but I'm not making any unreal promises. Look, let's end it like this. So, you said three masters, excuse me, don't understand this ironicly three experts wrote a book. A lot of books are written on a lot of subjects. Let me quote to you the promotion of Croatia, where the Croatian Border Commission for the hundredth time in April 2010 is starting with the Commission's opinion that it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to maintain the value of the contract already signed, and proposes to consider a proposal to confirm the contract between Croatia and BiH on the border and in the Croatian Parliament. April, 2009. Half that team is here in the Parliament. This was known by the prime minister, her advisor, the government. Why did you do this? Behind this is also common sense and verification of facts, but I can't tell you now whether it was Croatian or not. It's signed as signed. It's very important for the end. What was Croatian? Definitely, regardless of the Badinter, only bilateral border agreements are established because they cannot impose another border. I have to agree to sign it and ratify it. But speaking so much about our end has never occurred to any of you to remember Dubrovnik in the Croatian Constitution on the original basis. He's not here. There's no Dubrovnik Republic here, which is bad. The Dubrovnik Republic was abolished in the year 806. Whether the islets were then its component or not irrelevant, but it's negotiated differently. After 806. The Dubrovnik Republic disappears like many other Croatian structures and drowns in Austria, Dalmatia. Then in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, it becomes part of the Zetska banina in which there is much wider space. It's only '45. year it enters its full range of kilometers plus, minus in terms of what is today the Croatian state territorial and what Badinter '91 looked at. A year. It's only '45. The entire Dubrovnik Republic is literally transferred to the Croatian space Lastovo, Peljesac, everything. You never thought of that. The Dubrovnik Republic was also released from the preamble, i.e. from the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution, which created the continuity of the state-law sequence of Croatia and the idea of the Croatian state regarding the creation of Croatian principalities in the 7th century. Maybe a hundred years ago than it really was. Middle-aged independent state, Kingdom of Croats in the 10th century, subjectivity in the Croatian-Hungarian Personal Union. The question of what was voluntary and what wasn't. And we end up at ZAVNOH, building from NDH. Another smart move of those who then wrote the Constitution and the '74 Constitution. A year. Come on you suggest I don't have to be here somewhere before or after the Croatian-Hungarian Personal Union put up four and a half centuries of Dubrovnik Republic. Whose identity it is if it's not Croatian. Symbolic things are very important. You suggest a formulation, because we're talking about symbolism, and here you stick to facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14035	Thank you very much. Comment Commissioner Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14036	Of course I'm not happy with what I've heard. I'm pleased only with this last thing you said about the Dubrovnik Republic, although it's not forgotten. Turn around a little bit behind you. You have the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia on which the coat of arms of the city of Dubrovnik, or Dubrovnik. Therefore, it is not forgotten, but I agree, and we will be very happy to do this initiative, here we can make it common in the Constitution to stand in the Preamble and Dubrovnik Republic, because of course it is part of Croatian statehood and part of Croatian history and I am proud of it. We'll be happy to accept that. As far as the bridge is concerned, of course you stopped the construction. No ferry connection can be built between Komarna and this part of Peljesac where the bridge is built. He can't, he just can't for technical reasons. And the other against it is not the boastful and cynical people of the county, but against it are the people who live in that area, the people of the Municipality of Slovno. These people are against it and their representatives are legally elected representatives of the government. Therefore, if you are to be boastful and cynicalally danced, it is certainly the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the head of you. And the third thing is when you talk about ratification of the agreement, none of us want to get any other foreign territory. But if we have knowledge and knowledge was based on a book he wrote and signed by an academic among others where it was clearly proven to be a fake from '74. [[Intruder Light: Time.]] The basis for that contract then at least look at that book, read it, and then you'll have an argument before this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14037	Thank you very much. Next 20 questions and respected representative Ivica Mandic and then we're going to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14038	Mr. Vice President, distinguished members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. My question will be addressed to Mr. Vrdoljak, although it is not a direct topic covering the work of his ministry. With my question, I want to clarify the current issues in Slavonia and Baranja, it is a question of two statistical regions. So far, we have heard many and true and many incorrect things, and I am particularly troubled by the insulting dictionary of counterpart Buric that representatives from Slavonia and Baranja do not represent this area enough. I do not want to share this with the Republic of Croatia, we from Slavonia are equally glad that each part of the Republic of Croatia is progressing. So I am interested specifically, you come from the same region that I come from, to say your position in front of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and especially in front of the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja about what the two statistical regions bring and what they do to Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14039	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Predrag Matic. ... Ivan Vrdoljak, I apologize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14040	Here's a thank you to the esteemed representative. So, the prime minister has already said everything about this subject, and then the Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Greekic, but this is a nice technique to answer the representatives who have the right, and that is good, at the very beginning of the session, to call both ministers and representatives from the region from which we come to be ashamed of how they make decisions that are at the expense of this Slavonia. Indeed never ends this but beyond the borders and insolence of the populistism that comes from the ranks of the HDSSB's representatives and is always greatly prepared for TV cameras. 'Cause let's be totally honest when the cameras go out, they're gone. That's right, ladies and gentlemen, don't forget. The Croatian public should know that, too. As a rule, HDSSB advocates use this. Crying and crying, which also the vice president of the government said to stop whining and crying, it was directed to you, to your chiefs, to the directors, to the deputies, not to the citizens of Slavonia who have no bread, but to you and you know it well. And then don't turn your attention and your crosses that you've been carrying for 20 years because you rule Slavonia in various colors and decembers to the citizens that it's directed to them, but to you. A speech of hatred – I am a Southerner, an Ossetian, a Slavonic, and you know what? I love Zagreb, I love Čakovec, Varazdin, I love the Šenkovac, Radoboj whichever municipalities I now list here and I really like to give them a chance that you are also the means at their disposal. All Croatia, until the end, must have a chance until the last village because there is no country that has withdrawn all the funds available. And don't think that we'll do better and take everything that's at our disposal. One more thing that was necessary based on Mr Buric's opening statement and it is necessary to say that the time for a really painful truth is coming for you. Our children will have no better schools, no job, no better perspective, no better colleges. And the courage of this government doesn't need but brains, ability, knowledge and politics that knows which direction we need to go. And that courage you mentioned at the outset has been an argument to you for so many years that you have managed with these leaders, directors, mayors, mayors that it has led to a situation in Slavonia that even of the 5 Slavonian regions 4 are the most lagging behind. Yes, you forgot that you came from the county, and you and the three of you still from Osijek-Baranja County, which is more developed than the entire north of Croatia. It is more developed and statistically from the same region. And in the end I'll just tell you give me, I repeat, 20 days. Give me concrete projects as Minister of Government of the Republic of Croatia, give me concrete projects that are threatened by a new statistical division. I'll repeat what the Prime Minister said, statistically. Give me concrete that to our people in Slavonia and Baranja we tell this is threatened with this decision. Don't do the flat-out, populist act. I want to help that people, give me concrete projects, a list. In front of the Croatian public the next time you go outside what is threatened, which projects with this decision. If you don't come with that list, you're not credible, Mr. Buric. And in the end, maybe we're populists in this government like we couldn't tell you then that your directors, your CEOs, your mayors, the mayors, the mayors who rule Slavonia and Baranja from the air-conditioned offices for 20 years now, these same directors, after 20 years, have the right to say that someone else is guilty of being Slavonia and Baranja in that state. No, Slavonia and Baranja will take advantage of the chances this government and statistical regions will give it and the decision on new statistical regions does not take anything away from this region but gives it to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14041	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14042	I would like to thank the esteemed Minister Vrdoljak, and I would also like to mention what the Minister of Regional Development, Mr. Greek, said to those parts of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that a large part of the local self-government units are not in a position or project that the ministry is helping those units of local self-government to develop balancedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14043	Thank you, too. First one notice. The President of the Committee on Justice, the Honored Representative, Josip Kregar, asks that the Committee's session be held after the current morning, i.e. all questions raised. And now we're going to take a break by 1:15. There's 20 questions left. We're halfway there now. I ask MPs and MPs to sit in the constituency benches. I ask the Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia to take positions in benches so that we can continue with the current morning, ask questions to the Prime Minister and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. First one notice, members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, that the 11th session of the committee scheduled for 14 hours will be held today September 18th after the current morning is completed in the Hall of Janko Draskovic, chairman of the Committee Miroslav Tudjman. Next, the 21st parliamentary issue is asked by respected representative Zeljko Mirkovic. I'm asking a representative to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He would ask his question to the Minister of Defense, Predrag Matic. Dear Mr. Minister, the publication of the National War Defence Register has long been announced, and every mention of that registry is causing a great deal of public interest. To date, however, it has not been officially published, and certain obstacles that exist in existing legislation are cited as a reason for its failure to publish it. My question is: Will even when the Defence Registry is published and will its public announcement be the fulfillment of any assumption that the publication of the register will be completely clean and legal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14046	Thank you very much. A member of the government and minister, Predrag Matic, answers. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14047	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. In order to strengthen the dignity and honor of Croatian defenders, in order to promote the positive values of the Homeland War, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence decided to fulfill the pre-election promise and publish the Register of Croatian Defences. The inter-resor group has completed its work, all legal assumptions have been met, a positive opinion was given by the data protection agency. We could technically publish this register already tomorrow, but we decided to put a provision on the publication of the register of Croatian defenders in the upcoming amendment and addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, which we are working on greatly. For both you and Croatia, we can tell the public that the Croatian Defence Register will be published by the end of the year, as it goes into regular parliamentary procedure, possibly early next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14048	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Representative Željko Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14049	... Of course, I am satisfied with the answer, and I am convinced that the publication of the Defence Registry will finally separate the grain from the weeds, that is, the real defenders from the false ones. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14050	Thank you, Your Honor. The next 22nd parliamentary issue has to be asked by a respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14051	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm asking the Minister of Transport to Mr. Hajdash-Doncic. Since we have all witnessed slow investment especially in the public sector in the last nine months, my question is whether and if, in what way, the dynamics will continue to invest in road infrastructure in Krapina-Zagorje County, i.e. The county where you were recently mayor. Then you will also know about the fast roads from Brack towards Budinšk and the connected roads of business zones from Zabok to Krapina and other roads. And I'm going to take this opportunity and I'm also going to ask you to consider the fact that here, for 30 years now, Croatia's division is in force in 7 risk zones, this concerns mandatory vehicle insurance. Well then we have situations where actually Zagreb or Zagreb, in this case, carriers are going to register in Daruvar. I think that after 30 years, the time has matured, so to resolve this and, given Croatia's size and international traffic, once and for all, to resolve the issue of insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14052	Thank you, Your Honor. Minister Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14053	I would like to thank the esteemed Milosevic for asking the question. As regards regional investment, i.e. State roads in Krapina-Zagorje County, investments therefore go their course, so a tender for the start of the construction of a fast road from Mokrica i.e. And I hope that next week, the contractors of the work will be brought into the business. So it's the first stage of building a fast road, i.e. The merger of the Zagreb-Macelj highways and highways Zagreb-Varaždin i.e. Chakavez. An invitation to tender for the main infrastructure projects i.e. bridges, and overpasses on the same stock. As for that obligation, therefore, Croatia's government since 2000, even earlier as regards the construction of a connecting road between Zabok and Krapina. Also, a competition has been launched for the first section from Zabok to the Holy Cross Zakretje. Which means that the investments of Croatian roads go their own course and also for, I will say about ten days, will be signed with all counties, so with all the county road administrations in the Republic of Croatia one big one, I will say a large contract of 4 million kuna + VAT. Where are the investors of the Croatian road, but exclusively the investments refer to local and county roads, so I'm talking about the whole of Croatia. It's final. Therefore, Croatian roads in the investment cycle will pay particular attention to this particular investment in those county roads and those parts of Croatia that may not have been to the extent that they should have been communal, i.e. traffic equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14054	Thank you, Minister. It's a pleasure show.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14055	I'm not happy with the answer, since I haven't actually heard from the other part of the insurance question at all, not a single comment. And we would also, we would also like to hear the dynamics, when I speak, so I'm glad to hear that competitions are called but the issue of dynamics is also important.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14056	Thank you very much. He was a respected representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. The next 23rd question and the esteemed representative, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14057	Mr. Vice President. The question is for the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. When will your government finally stop functioning as a bad version of the SDP led by the 2000 government? It's a sort of rain we're in a much worse version. In fact, thousands of people in various institutions and services who in normal countries have nothing to do with politics, as you have so far replaced thousands of people rarely unqualified, under investigation or even convicted persons. And then, as now, the salaries of nurses and teachers and teachers in schools were reduced, then the SDP-led government sold a key package of Pliva shares, part of Croatia's Telekom, 25% of INA and MOL handed over most of the rights to the strategic Croatian company, and you are now announcing that you will sell the only remaining Croatian bank owned by the Postanska Banka, Croatia Insurance and who knows what else. I say that history is repeated in the worse version because the then government at least continued to build roads, and you have almost stopped all constructions while the already built roads paid for years by Croatian citizens want to give in concession for 30 years for small or small money that would cover the gaps in the budget. Since the investment storm you announced, there is no lahora, so today that expression almost sounds like a joke. You promise big state investments as if we're Soviet five-year-olds, but there's nothing of them while you systematically destroy small and medium-sized private enterprises. Unemployment is increasing even during the tourist season, which has never happened before. They've never been prices of gas, water, electricity, gasoline again, never such inflation in the last few years. Since your takeover, there has been a permanent decline in industrial production and we are the only European country that exports less than 2007 today, so the question is when will it change? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14058	Thank you, too. Reply by Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14059	It won't change because it's not true. A thorough sylogism, and I don't want to patronize you because you're something older than me and you're an academic, but this is really if they make you read such things, stop talking to me coolly because as such, I don't know you and these things you said you don't believe. So maybe it's better if we don't even talk informally, because I'm really disappointed a few months after choosing this kind of salvo of wrong stuff. This reminds me of the statement by the president of the Senate minority in 2009 two months after the inauguration of then-President Obama that I cannot compare myself with because I can't, but the context is similar when he said that the main objective of the Republican party is to make Obama president in just one term and that's what the man said two months after the inauguration of the president who took the impossible situation. What you're saying now is similar. It is simply not fair to ask me, and I cannot answer you to this salva and this invetifier of all the worst things you have loaded us with, and all I do is try to change the standard in Croatian politics that even those who are truly responsible are retroactively transferring responsibility because we have to make decisions. Look, it's hard to comment on all this, so I'm going to stick to these political names for thousands of people. A representative of a large regional party who would like to run the region as a county I asked a few months ago to ask me who the people who were politically appointed in the state administration system were. I dared him five times to ask me who they were and how many they were and won't ask. And he will not ask again, but about the administrative division of Croatia. Master, ask me how many people and what time they're employed in the public administration, and then we'll go to state-owned companies and I'll tell you practically no one and there'll be no one. And those who came with politicians will go along with them as well as in Washington, Mr. Stier, you know how it works in America. I don't know what it's like in Argentina, it's not exactly a democracy, but in America it works that way. The police, a few days ago, were appointed the leaders of the Croatian police under the law that you left us, is the way we will not change it. A lot of people from the police have gone, they're banned from returning, so we won't return them because they're neither SDP nor HDZ, they're some kind of professionals whose European law has banned them from returning to work for 20 years and they won't come back. So from what we have, or the Minister of the Ministry of Interior, I've got it in my head. How did we choose? We gave people the most complicated tests at FBI level written and oral. And there was a part of the people who were close associates of the current opposition party president who had passed and were appointed to the leading posts in the police fair and will be appointed to some of them in the county seats. Most of them will be ordinary professionals who have nothing to do with politics and who did not trade their police uniform for a party mandate. Some people who are nice to local SDPs and HNSs were bad on the test so they won't be police leaders. That's what I have to explain to my party membership, but that's how we do it, unlike some. Check out gentlemen what they're doing today and where the appointed people on HTV two years ago were reading criminal charges against the mayor of Rijeka against all the rules of the profession. We forgot that, it doesn't matter because these people have no other jobs and other bread and we count on them to do the job and they will work for the Croatian state and not for the SDP. Don't let them ask you questions like that, you're still an academic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14060	Thank you very much. Commentary of Honorable Representative Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14061	Unfortunately, I've received an answer to the tone of what the government on that side has done throughout this session, which is not a standard that has ruled in this House for many years. But apparently, some new standard is inauguration. Of course I didn't get the answer, I got stories about the police, etc. But if we want to talk about cases, let's talk about cases. 40 editors at HRT, Mrs. Vesna Kusin, the entire executive staff of the State Rescue Administration has been removed. What about Mr. Krunoslav Shams' case? What about Mr. Damir Mihovilic's case? What about a series of others? Of course, I'm not going to get an answer because what I said is true, and the answer of course isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14062	Thank you, Your Honor. 24th parliamentary issue and respected representative Melita Mulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14063	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Health, Dr. Rajka Ostović. Mr. Minister, you released a PET-CT device in KBC Zagreb last week. This finally forced the monopoly of a private company to conduct expensive checks on the PET-CT device of course retained money. Can you tell me what was actually achieved by releasing PET-CT devices in a public hospital, which actually means for Croatian patients, and I also want to know if there is anything more to know today about what and how a private health institution deserves such an exclusive and privileged position in Croatian health care... /
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14064	Thank you very much. A member of the government and Minister of Honor Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Croatian citizens have received more available healthcare. We were the only European country that didn't have a PET-CT state-of-the-art apparatus in a public hospital. We were always leaders, and now we were at the beginning, not just at the beginning we were the only ones she didn't have. Medical students have never seen what that machine looks like in the last six years. Specialists and radiologists have never seen what that machine looks like. How can we be leaders? We got everything, we kept our promise pre-election, there's no private monopoly, and yes, yes, there's no private monopoly in the strategy. There isn't. Privates are welcome as a competition, but they're not in the strategy. There is, of course, something that we all remember some of the old times, professionally called memory optimism, so maybe someone, one of the MPs, remembers the optimism of memory when he had a private monopoly. Maybe someone remembers when public funds were poured into their private pockets, but yes, that's not in the strategy and it won't be. That's what memory optimism is said professionally, and there's a song, and I know that some people like songs, they have problems with numbers and zeroes, they like songs, so it's called what the song says, "For old times' sake." There's no private monopoly. In addition to memory optimism, there is also a politicization of memory. It's not good, I'm a doctor, it's not good to go back in time, you can't change it, almost, look into the future. And that's why there's this strategy. And I personally handed this draft strategy to all former health ministers, including one of my predecessors, personally. I personally wrote to all parliamentary party presidents, but not to parliamentarians with my own hand, for example, there is no HSS anymore in Parliament. I wrote the following: Dear Mr. Hrg, and then on the machine, I asked him, for example, for his health union to participate in it and thanked him with his own respect and signed himself, because it's democracy, because I'm so taught, so I live. Personally. ... Mr. MP, my predecessor who showed you this. [[You don't understand.]] Okay, there's this strategy and there's this strategy written by my colleague Ljubicic. Between him and me, he didn't write anything. Okay, there's empty paper syndrome, they return blank paper, you don't know what you're going to write. And I know it's hard to write, but please, at least read it. Of course you're all reading except one, because compared to this and what you've got on the bench is a significant difference. There's a significant difference. So unfortunately, the version that came and adopted by the government was not even read. So this was a draft strategy, so I asked all the parliamentary parties, you, to participate in health care 20-20 and who knows who's going to be Minister of Health, I know who's going to be Minister of Health 20-20, but I asked you to participate. So it's hard to write, but at least read. And I am sorry about Mr. Mlakar, who asked for a break on behalf of the big Croatian party, a pause that the party's representative is talking about about something that is passing, which was a public debate. I gave it to him myself. This is an irresponsibility towards those who voted in favour of the parliamentary representative, the irresponsibility of their citizens and citizens, the irresponsibility of, for example, the vice president of the club that requested a break, but on that basis. I've got seven seconds to go, so I'd like to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14066	Thank you, Minister. Commentary, honourable representative Melita Mulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14067	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14068	Thank you very much. 25th parliamentary issue and respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14069	I thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the issue to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, and the topic is the one he calls for, it is a ratification of the border agreement between Croatia and BiH. It's obvious that you were expecting, that's also logical, you let some classified documents into the paper which obviously became a practice in your foreign policy because you first release information to the public, and then diplomatically negotiate it. Now here in the Parliament, even threatening some of my colleagues, you didn't directly mention me but I was the foreign minister and I'd be happy to do that with you if I'm worthy of controversy with you because I see that the government has hit your head very hard and you remind me of some who have sat here and haven't been famously passed. I think as far as ratification is concerned, you actually opened the procedure by accident, improvising, because of the things that happened before you announced ratification. What happened? You said you wouldn't build the Peljeski Bridge, you said you wanted a corridor through BiH through Neum. You have not prepared this diplomatically, you are neither professionally nor politically, and have then sent fresh Minister Hajdas Doncic to speak with his BiH counterpart. He passed as a boss by the thorn, the Bosnian-Herzegovina minister gave him a lesson in state behaviour and then you didn't know where to go, so you moved faster or better with the story of ratification of the agreement and insisted that this ratification be immediately. You are not interested in the opinion of the international legal profession. I can see that you're not holding onto people who are academics, the way you've spoken to Academyman Reiner is extremely inappropriate, but apparently the government is taking a toll, so I'd like to instruct you to read what academic Ibler says, as says academic Rudolph, as Professor Vidas. These must be the best Croatian international lawyers. They say it is not time for ratification and say that this agreement should not be ratified now because they are not circumstances that go hand in hand to the Republic of Croatia. What you tried to sell here in Parliament to both representatives and the Croatian public...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14070	Ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14071	This is in the interest of the Croatian public, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14072	Yeah, but give me a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14073	For a minute and 40 seconds, he had an extra Prime Minister, so I'm asking you to give me that time as a small, humble representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14074	You already have one minute more.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14075	I'll just say something. So the international legal profession is against, the prominent representatives of the Croats from BiH are against, BiH has not ratified the agreement, the European Union is not asking this as a condition for us to become a full member. Why do you want to ratify the agreement now and please tell the representatives and the Croatian public what are the arguments that make you think that Mali and Veliki Škoj and the top of the peninsula Klek Bosnian-Herzegovina territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14076	Thank you very much. Answer, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14077	Here's the secret document. Press release No. 321/2010, July 5, 2010, in which it stands, published on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who was then the minister that was the award issue in Millionas, Mario Dragun signed. Everything I talked about was posted on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website. Okay? The record is no secret document, it's signed by two parties, unless you're conducting a secret negotiation. Let's concentrate, now you've got peace, now as you say, you're just a little representative, you have time to read before, you had two hours to talk about it, and you haven't caught the basics again. If that's an insult, let me know. Your predecessor I allegedly insulted, and I didn't just say I was going to sound patronizing him, so maybe that's what it sounded like didn't deserve that he was talking about the Shams case. It's usually the gentleman who worked for HDZ for 10 years as an officer we wanted to send to the airport to control the state's money, so the matter got complicated. You probably know who Danilo Harbs is. It's a Russian poet of absurdity from the beginning of the 20th century. Now, this is the Harbs case. It's a movie about it. This is the poetry of absurdity. Experts in international law speak both this and that. A respected academic you mentioned by an older gentleman a month ago, one thing, now the other. It's completely different. These others say it's not time for ratification. Gentlemen, it's time for ratification to be decided by politics. I'm a politician and I know something of international law. My mentors were the ones you mentioned, but not just them. I went to get knowledge and out, so I went back, and I went again. You have experts, and I'm not going to advertise them here right now that they insist it's a good thing to do it. They're a little bit more adherent to international law, but this is no longer a matter of international law, this is a matter of statehood in which I allow myself to be wrong. I've been making arguments here for two hours, and I won't get tired of it, and I won't make you do anything against your will or knowledge. We'll come here and you'll be against it, so you'll come to me with a book, and I don't want to tell you how much in the history of 20 centuries a novelty of various books has been published, with what motives and with what background. Books should be read. I read it. I still have an opinion. I can still see the sequence. I still see that the Commission for Borders led by your State Secretary, later a member of the government, told and concluded before talks with BiH 2010 that ratification should be proposed. Well, who are these people? Well, that's where the man sits behind you. Well, I mean, I guess he knows what he's saying. And I know he knows what he's saying. You've done 90% of the work, darling. I mean, look, I'm not gonna patronize you. The Harbs case, look at that. This is the Harbs case, this is the poetry of absurdity. No more!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14078	Thank you very much. Commentary, honourable representative Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14079	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're deluding the public again, Prime Minister, because you haven't read the last sentence. I have to put my glasses on so I can read it, and she says, a sentence before that needs to create conditions for ratification of this contract. And then he goes. The session presents a review of work in the past period since the last session held in March 2005 and an agreement on further activities, i.e. tasks relating to identification, labelling and maintenance tasks of the state border. He's standing in a statement. Mr Milanovic, you manipulate Croatian citizens and the public here. In addition, politics makes decisions, not state commissions, and our political decision was not to ratify as he did not wish to ratify the late President Tudjman, nor the late President Racan because there were reasons. You obviously don't understand those reasons. You're involved as you get involved in other things and then you try to explain to the public that it's statehood. It's not statehood, it's a coincidence you were talking about. It's a discrepancy, it's incompetence. Time will show who's right about you or me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14080	Thank you very much. The next 26th parliamentary issue has been asked by respected representative Jaksa Belovic, Baloevic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14081	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We as a group have decided on a thorough analysis of the city of Split, and about the county and the region as a whole to obtain all information in terms of finance, in terms of the economy. And once we get all that information, we put all those facts on the table then we'll decide how to go to the election and when to the election. What is very important, which is particularly important to our eye, and I think it is of great importance for the city of Split primarily in economic terms, it is the former military Dračevac, so in that sense I would also ask Mr. Minister of Justice a question. When the court is scheduled to move out of the former military and move into the area that is planned for it and located right next to the main court building in Split, it is with the building in the center of Split, which is so far empty. It's known that this building is really empty, it has two floors on the ground floor, so I'm curious about what's going to happen, or when it's going to be moving from Dračevac. Because I think that space, and the space is 13,000 square meters, has two trafostations, a busy road. So, I think that space is very interesting for the city of Split since the city of Split is one peninsula. I think it's very important in economic terms to do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14082	Thank you very much. Answer, Honorable Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14083	Thank you very much for asking. So, I'm not sure I caught this other part of the question, but I'll answer it first, so if it's not enough, then you'll still ask me. So, I think it's 2007. Immigrant Municipal Court to Dračevac. So, down at that palace of justice, there was a county and something land-booked and something state's attorney's office. It is true that the imagined building "Stande" was a department store located across the street to accommodate the Municipal Court. However, these are at a time when the budgets are obviously some sort of wrong things calculated because simply there the Municipal Court cannot stop. So that's the first part of the answer. There's too many employees to fit into that building. In addition, the building is relatively inadequate, there are no windows outside, etc. The third thing is at this point we don't have the money to finish the arrangement. So if these first two elements were satisfied. So at this point, I can't answer you when there's going to be a move. What I can answer you is that if it's all right we'll start with so-called. The square of justice in Zagreb is very soon because for him it is a project near its end. And then we think of a similar way to solve a number of other cities including Split in a way that, in agreement with the local community below, finds the right space, puts all the judicial bodies on it, and then these existing spaces would be given to use either through the state, whether local self-government. Here's what I can answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14084	Thank you very much. Commentary, honourable representative of Jakša Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14085	Well, I'm mostly happy with the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14086	Thank you, Your Honor. 27th parliamentary issue and respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14087	Thank you. Question for Mr. Minister Jovanovic. Mr. Minister, my question concerns the scandalous behaviour of the mayor of Split-Dalmatia County of Ante Sanader and his head of education, Mr. Darken. Namely, after receiving a number of children in the Castelan high school of Braća Radića, the principal received a number of children without meeting the legal requirements, you responded by defending the law, the rule of law, defending what is most sacred to each state, and these are its laws. After that, our mayor, because I live in that county, attacked you. For what? I guess it's a unique case in the world I think, he attacked you because you insist on the law and he considers it your greatest sin. And he publicly advocated a desirable act of violation of the law by demanding your resignation because you adhered to the law even though you allowed those children to enroll not in a 4-year-old because they could not program because they did not meet the conditions but in a 3-year-old after which they would be able to continue their education neatly. In order not to be an end, Mr. Sanader has in one way never seen before for such a high-ranking official offended you by alluding to your nationality, bringing your function down to the lowest possible level both human and each other. I think all democratic public in Croatia condemns such behaviour. And I ask you whether such attacks, such bribery, such attempts to prevent you from working in accordance with the law will prevent you from putting order into the school system in Croatia because it was not there when you came.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14088	Thank you very much. Minister Zeljko Jovanovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14089	Dear Representative Jurovic, you have well described the situation I have found in the educational system of the Split-Dalmatia County where apparently the former government has done nothing to comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia and of course everything that has happened in the case of the school in Kašteli has only given me greater motivation to endure what is my job, which is to allow every part of Croatia to respect Croatian laws. I'm not surprised by the gentleman you were talking about. He lives in a mile where such statements are not unusual and when they run out of arguments then they use statements that have nothing to do with what responsible people should do. However, work, knowledge, honesty, responsibility, a positive attitude on which a knowledge society is built, a community that respects work, honesty and responsibility is not what Mr. Sanader and his school head are worth. Unfortunately, children living in such an environment where there is no system of values must not be victims. And that's exactly what happened in this case when 42 children turned out to be victims of their mayor's irresponsible behavior, then the headmaster and director, and parents were led astray. And they are most important, most importantly, it is 42 children who today, thanks to the ministry's efforts and educational inspection, are listed in the directions for which they meet the conditions, for which they have shown their abilities in previous schooling and the problems with those children will not be. But they got a great message that their mayor Sanader and head Omrchen didn't send – so the moment they encounter the first obstacle in life that must be overcome by some previous results and knowledge they've told them it doesn't matter what you haven't learned, you'll fit in this direction. The ministry headed by me has sent a message to my dear children you will be enrolled in a school 3 years old for which you meet the conditions, and if after three years you learn a little more than you have learned so far you have a chance to enroll in the 4th grade because this ministry has decided that all students of three-year vocational schools can enroll in the 4th grade after the completion of the 3rd grade in a year on the cost of the state, take the state degree and enroll the desired university. This is an example of how the responsible state behaves and how it sends a message to children that with its knowledge and learning it can succeed in life, not immediately on the first obstacle, it pleases them in a way to say it doesn't matter what you did and how much you learn. What I particularly want to say is that unlike this irresponsible behaviour, we had yesterday the opportunity to witness the responsible behaviour of another mayor, the Mayor of Perhoc in Međimurje County, who went straight to where a real event took place, which is for every conviction where parents who again send a completely bad message to children are guilty. So parents are the most responsible for raising and educating their children where they did not want to let Roma children go to preschool. And it is precisely by pawning Međimurje County, Mr. Perhoc and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports that the children want to be able to master Croatian well for a year before their school trip to school so that they can follow the course with the rest of the children and finish their 8-year schooling. So you have the irresponsible mayor of Sanader, the responsible Mayor of Perhoc, and that's the story I hope the citizens will recognize in the elections when they have a chance to decide who wants to run their county.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14090	Thank you very much, Minister. And a comment by the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14091	I agree, Mr. Minister, that as far as the Castlean situation is concerned, children are actually the biggest victims and have tried to manipulate them and their parents. And it is good that you did what you did and that you will allow those who deserve it to continue for the fourth year and to go through life learning, working, etc. But the message of Mr. Mayor is a message in this country that should not be obeyed by laws, desirable behavior is a violation of the law. I am surprised that HDZ did not react because it is also a member of the HDZ's most senior leadership, although it was not won in a secret vote but rather in the mercy of Mr. President, which allows them, but it is a fact that such an act that is outside of any civilized, democratic and polite forms of behaviour is tolerated. Not to talk about this excess that's on the border not only of good taste but also of legality. So here, in some ways, a nasty situation has been exposed in our county in the area of the most sensitive in addition to health, the most sensitive because it tangs every human and parent and child. And I think you did the right thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14092	Thank you very much. 28th parliamentary question, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14093	Dear President, members and members of the Croatian government today, I refer my question to the Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Dear Mr. Minister, in public these days and these months, you can often hear about possible amendments to the Labour Act. It is often referred to in a negative context, and in some ways citizens may be encouraged by different interpretations and also by the manipulations of color which this new law, i.e. amendments to the Labour Act, could be passed. Therefore, Minister Mrsic, I ask you, can you here in the Croatian Parliament, to us MPs, but also to the entire Croatian public, clearly and certainly tell you whether an amendment to the Labour Act is being made to the Government, if it is being prepared in which direction it will go, that is, what are the main differences in relation to the existing law that is in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14094	Thank you very much. Answer, Honorable Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14095	Honorable MPs, MPs. Recently, there have been a lot of media performances about what changes to the Labour Act should be achieved, about what to do. And what we promised and said that at the end of this year and early next year we would open a very broad discussion with all those who have something to say about the Labour Act. Which will be the basis for us to base the Law on assessment of legal effects, to make a preliminary assessment of the current law and to determine the areas to be changed. And according to the current, we can have work for 4 hours, we can have work for more employers, but this institute does not apply. And when we talk about a work contract then the contract at a certain time was supposed to be an exception, it became a rule, working indefinitely should be a rule, it became an exception. Just to back that up with numbers, so far we've made about 150 thousand new contracts for a certain time and only 10,000 contracts for an indefinite period of time. What it says is that in this area of the Labour Contract Institute, we need to reach some new solutions. What kind of solutions will we be agreeing together with the social partners, we will agree with the profession, economic experts and with all those who will be able to say something about it. In any case, we'll go to easier employment. As for layoffs, the current Labour Act does not go beyond layoffs, although some say we have rigid legislation all the time. We've lost over 300 thousand jobs so far, and if the Labour Act was an obstacle to it, then we wouldn't have lost so many jobs. We think that we need to make it possible for people to work for more employers, work for the house, is especially important for young mothers who will then be able to work from their own home. In today's day, here's an example of ET technology is, the workplace doesn't have to be in the company at all, it doesn't have to be on this continent at all, it can be anywhere else, it opens up opportunities for us to make certain changes in the Labour Act. However, the Labour Act was written at the time when these things were gone. After the impact assessment under the Law on the Assessment of Legal Effects, we go to the writing of a new law together with the social partners and we are aware that we will have a lot of time in this, but also a lot of difficulties. But it is clear that employers and trade unions do not have the same views on certain items of the law, but I hope, as in the Law on Representativeship, that we will succeed in achieving maximum consensus and that together we will change what we believe should be changed in the current Labour Act. So, there's a debate going on, and somewhere early next year there's a working group forming and writing a proposal for a new Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14096	Thank you very much. And a comment by respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Thank you very much. The next 29th parliamentary issue and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14097	Well, Mr. Vice President, I'm asking the Prime Minister a question. Mr. Prime Minister, can you explain to the Croatian public, and especially to the citizens of Zadar and Zadar County your statement that you would be the sports hall on Višnik, that it should be decommissioned. How did you see it done, for example, in London and then repurpose it into not knowing what you meant and because of its price, which in your words is unrealistically high and speculative. If you are telling the rest of the Croatian public that you will disassemble the built halls, since the Zadar Hall is the highest quality and according to the exact indicators, which is the price per seat, the cheapest building hall in Croatia, and according to some world halls. It would be especially interesting to hear what you would do with the Hall in Varazdin. Which your first Deputy Prime Minister points out as the only successful model of public-private partnership, which is almost double as Zadar, which is more expensive. Is this statement from the SDP to the people of Zadar that you will be decommissioning the hall that some 1400 citizens are going through daily and that is being held on your own. Or the story with the Zadar Hall, as well as other redundancies from the state budget towards the city of Zadar, is an unfounded attack on the Zadar institutions, in fact an elaborate campaign of the SDP Government before the local elections to lead Zadar as a well-known successful city to collapse and systematically punish only because there is a long-standing HDZ government. How else do we interpret your government's move, which instead of fulfilling the 11 million kuna commitment to Zadar after 6 months, reacts by forming a committee of four powerful ministers to examine facts that can be clearly and explicitly read from existing documentation and from audit reports. How else is it that the government avoids the obligation to pay for that hall taken over, and reached, and to make it difficult, delay and not make the payment out of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14098	Thank you very much. The answer that Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic will give.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14099	Dear colleagues, the commission's decision was made by the HDZ government. You know, to win the Nobel Prize, you don't have to have a 190 IQ, it's 120 enough, it's considered smart. In politics to be credible, you don't have to be the most educated person, you have to have a little character and some knowledge. What do you want me to say to this? Do you want me to answer that I didn't say anything at all? Which I didn't say. Yeah, how to use these four minutes without getting off the subject, I didn't say that. I said what we wouldn't do, of course. I said it's done in London and it's done, right? I said, but we're not gonna do it. So, the commission formed a government where you were a minister, and what's not clear now? What's not clear, I think. You're really making me be, like, uncomfortable and I'm not gonna be. You're wrong, I never said that, I said that some people do that, we don't. And those who do that are one of the most successful countries in the world, they know why they work because they know how hard it is to earn a penny or a pound, it's hard to earn. Zadru brought the highway to the front of the door without looking who was in power. In that Zadar election, I didn't want to say it, I never said your party was confused in the election result. When did I come to Zadar and beat myself in the chest with it? I won't do it, but why do you open these things? That's not right. No question that came from the opposition today was on the subject of the economy where we're killing ourselves to do something, and so far it's going to be very difficult, so here's that rating we kind of scraped, we'll see what happens next. You have no questions to ask, so at least to criticize us and it shows that you have shame, that's good, even unconscious. What can I tell you now to fill this time of two minutes without being accused of turning away from the subject? I have nothing more to say to you, but I want to speak. I want to say that you can hear me, I want to say that you can't call a fresh minister a man who used to be a mayor for 2.5 years, where people chose him directly. If under fresh thought you were young with fresh ideas, that's true. With what experience have you from the executive and electoral policy come to ministerial posts? Has anyone ever told you you're fresh that you don't know the language, has anyone ever told you that? So don't say such things to my people. So don't, what does the fresh minister mean? Well, it's a man, I mean, he certainly wasn't offended, but I have to go back to it, it's people who have some kind of trust, don't have to have your sympathy or your trust, you don't have to address them with respect. So no decomposition will be that it's crazy at all as an idea. That hall can't be disassembled, and I specifically said it, but we're not gonna do it, it was in the open part of the government's session. Otherwise, as you know, 99% of our sessions are open because we have nothing to hide, so even when we share the budget reserve we do it open and we say here's the last time with this budget, it's over, so if there's no going to be any but there's no behind the back. Take another look at your colleagues and colleagues because this is to a certain extent a banzai policy, and banzai in Japanese means 10 thousand years or lived a emperor. You're just going to banzai logic. And don't tell the truth. I can't make a noise here right now and I won't do it but look again at the press releases from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and ask yourself if this kind of statement is in the right mind for anyone who doesn't have any noble and honorable intentions regarding an agreement to ratify it. If that is not clear to you, look at the Commission's border record and raise it as a lawyer, you will now say probably very important things.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14100	A comment first, and then we'll hurt the Rules of Procedure. First, please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14101	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14102	Okay. Here you go. I thought you wanted to comment before.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14103	I'll comment later. Article 184 has been injured. The rules of procedure of this consolidated text. Namely, the minister to whom the question should be asked should answer the asked question. As a rule, that answer lasts two minutes. You persistent Mr. Chairman and Vice President allow answers all morning for four minutes, although that's an exception to the two-minute rule if it's a complex question. Mr. Prime Minister has nothing to say to me, but that's why he laminates about everything and everything for four minutes and it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because I didn't ask him anything about these fresh ministers, I didn't mention it or mention the boundaries. So he could have answered me very clearly and briefly if he hadn't said what I said and that would have been the answer. And now I'm done, so you'll give me a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14104	I'll answer you right now. In the Croatian Parliament, the standard was introduced during the former governments and the former mandates of the Parliament for 4 minutes, that is the standard. That's one thing you must know. The second thing, neither can you determine how you're going to ask a question, which argument you're going to take, and which politicization you're going to create, nor can it be written on this side that you have to answer as you expect. Well, you know that, so don't even use it as an argument for breach of the Rules of Procedure because it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you to refer it to the Constitutional Committee if you're not satisfied with this interpretation. Next infraction by the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I believe that the same article that my colleague Lovrin was talking about, or that Mr. Prime Minister was not answering the question asked by his representative, was already answering the question that was before my question, so I would say that Minister Hajdaš Doncic did not want to offend him, he was a really fresh minister at the time for just a few weeks. And I didn't say that he is a chauvinist to use hate speech that he doesn't love and knows Croatia I didn't say it, it's not a rhetoric that I think is appropriate, which unfortunately comes from the president of the government of a man who has the heritage tradition of the Communist Party of Croatia who has been very, very careful about what is being said and then if it were bad-mouthed it punishes it with very strict and prison and similar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14106	Dear Representative Jandrokovic, you have indeed now injured the Rules of Procedure and you have earned a warning but we are tolerated because this is the Croatian Parliament and tolerance is the most important element in Parliament because we have different views, different interests and we represent different people, different groups. There's no reason to defend the Prime Minister because he's here alone and his ministers, our ministers, but I certainly have to repeat that two or three or four times I didn't say that, you're accusing me of something I didn't say. Isn't that more accurate than can be expected? ... Now you've said one thing and then run to another field. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is what we're talking about. Thank you very much. It's also not a breach of the Rules of Procedure on the side of my desk, it's not my violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's not the Prime Minister, and I refer you back to the written request of the Committee on the Constitution. Thank you very much. Giving satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the answer of the respected representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14107	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm not happy with the answer because I've been listening to four minutes of crap except for the answer to my question. I also heard that the prime minister, as already several times used the argument at hominim, is usually done by people when they can't speak competently about the case then attack a person. So he mentioned what kind of IQ I need, or I don't need to figure something out. And my intelligence understands enough that it is true that the HDZ government has formed a commission and it is true that the HDZ government has made two decisions accordingly with the exact amounts of government obligation. It is true that your government has received a request in March that it reacted after six months in September to form a commission because four powerful ministers probably have nothing else to do but go and read documents that can be read within two hours and that have all been delivered to the Government. And then I suggest that when such a powerful commission is formed to examine the little price of building a hall in Zamet in Rijeka that is more than twice as expensive as the one in Zadar, that the river pool came from the initial 80 million to the final price of 400 million and some other projects in Croatia. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14108	Please don't throw it out of the bench, but was this comment on the question? Well, it's not, of course it's not. We use opportunities to sell, place policies that are legitimate. So let's not resent others when they also use their minutes, two or four to explain their policies, their views. Let's be tolerant. Thank you very much. 30th question, MP and respected representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14109	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister. I will grant you my wish and refer my question to the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Economy Radimir Cacic. What about the pompous announced investment for Slavonia and Baranja? You announced investments ranging from 7 to 8 billion kuna that were to be carried out by public companies under the control of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. My question is: what about these announced investments, where among them are investments for Slavonia and Baranja, and how much of the total funds and investments are foreseen, given the fact that Slavonia and Baranja represent 20% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and close to 20% of the total population of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14110	Answer, first Deputy Prime Minister, respected Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for asking. Indeed Slavonia deserves and needs investment. At this moment you have 785 million 566 kuna investments of Croatian waters in the areas of Virovitica-Podravska, Požeško-Slavonska, Brod-Posaviska, Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska total investment cake for you is 2 billion 251 million kuna. In this context, European projects are largely because these 2 billion and 251 thousand kunas in spite of what I have been able to hear here, which you, of course, do not think that you believe that Slavonia will be cut off in European projects. That's what I said about '12. What I said. Next, you have in school the potential of a billion 470 million kuna at your disposal whenever you want tomorrow morning. Here are the decisions made, all the billions and 470 million go into realisation, all of them. You didn't bring them. You, not the government. The government has made a decision to give you that money. It's crazy, it's demagogy, it's brazen, it's half-world. That's what we're talking about. ... /The noise in the hall./... What did you bring? So far, you have reported officially nominated schools, the City of Vinkovci and Osijek-Baranja County. 177 million kuna. Estimated schools you haven't officially nominated yet but you've announced that in the second round of PPP you'll give, 303 million 929 thousand 371 kuna. Please report to your county, your municipalities and cities. The state predicted and secured its share of the money. In the section relating to road infrastructure at this point you have in realising 394 million 874 thousand and 364 kuna. Just in the part that you only have a picture of the shift, the shift of the investment cycle plan compared to the 12th in those intervention parts is from 22 million 228 thousand to 171 million 672 thousand, so 150 million was intervened in the 7th month and sent to your county interventions, a total of 400 million. So 800 in the waters roughly, 400 in the roads and a billion and 470 as the space that's open to you, and you're only using 10% of it, 170 million so far. Here you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14112	Thank you, too. I suggest you take care of your qualifications. And a response and a comment by the esteemed representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14113	Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with the answer because residents of Slavonia and Baranja do not see any of these announced investments. In plan 21 you promised a uniform development of all the announcements of the Republic of Croatia, at the beginning of the year you announced huge public investment in the economy. Today you are announcing major new investments in the area of energy, rail and highways, but in all these announcements of new Croatian investments, Slavonia and Baranja is back in the loop. Economic activity in Slavonia and Baranja is reduced to zero, and Slavonia and Baranja is strategically neglected. Whether it was a big investment for you to buy a new car in HZ or maybe it was smarter to train the Najice-Pletternica railroad. Slavonia and Baranja continue to receive mostly unfulfilled promises, and you tell Slavs and Baranjas that we talk less and we do more, that instead of crying, we show more abilities. It may be funny to you, but in Slavonia and Baranja, such messages represent salt on the wound, not the reason for laughter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14114	Thank you very much. 31st parliamentary issue and respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to refer my question to Minister Zeljko Jovanovic. It is September, the deadlines have been examined, and all students are preparing for the start of the academic year, and thus for those costs she carries. My question concerns whether something has been done, or what has been done to meet those requirements that students made during their protests in 2008, 2009 and 2010, that is, during the famous blockade of universities and universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14116	Thank you, Your Honor. The answer will be given by respected Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Grbin. The government has made a lot of decisions, so in these 52 meetings of the Government on August 2nd, a decision was made, which in my opinion is one of the most important decisions ever made by this government, and it is certainly the most important in the resources of science, education and sports, which is a decision on the full subsidy of tuition of all regular students in the Republic of Croatia. In this way, all of the dilemmas that existed in the academic community were removed, especially the reason and major student protests in 2009. For the first time, a decision has been made at a government meeting that is not year after year but that students can absolutely be calm because their scholarships in the three years left in this mandate will be subsidized. The decision totals around 800 million kuna, and it is actually going to address the two fundamental objectives of this government, which is that the Croatian economy is based on knowledge and that Croatian society is equal opportunities. In order for every child in this country to be equal, society has to have the highest quality education possible. So that's where you can see the whole strategy that started with the possibility that after the third grade of vocational school you'll enter the fourth, you'll end up in state high school, you'll go to college. The decision to finance inter-urban transport totalling half a billion kuna, and if we add these 800 million kunas to subsidise all scholarships, it is clear that in these restrictions we already allocate a billion and 300 million kunas more than it was before to invest in education. Croatia is on the competitiveness scale this year 81. These are the consequences of all those governments before ours. If we want to be competitive, then we have to invest in education and science. In Croatia, only 23% of the working population has completed university. In Slovenia it is 26%, for example 47% in Norway. We are convinced that with these decisions we are creating assumptions that Croatia is becoming a society of equal opportunities and that it is developing a knowledge-based economy. And since I have a little more time to tell you that the pool in Cantrida in Rijeka and the Zameta halls were built absolutely transparently, that they were combed by all possible inspections and found nothing controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14118	Thank you very much. Comment Commissioner Peja Grbin. Nothing, thank you very much. Next question is 32nd and respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14119	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic. It has been announced for a long time that a tax on property is being introduced. In my contacts with citizens, I could conclude that they were fairly under-informed about this type of tax, about what is the time limit and the time limit, or when that tax will be introduced, whether they will be, which they will be taxed, in what way, which rate. I think there's too little information about that in public. On the other hand, a certain amount of property tax has been introduced in almost all European Union countries. We have witnessed in recent days that French President Hollande has also introduced a tax on rich people, on those who have revenue of over a million euros. So, specifically my question is whether a property tax will be introduced, which will be taxed, at what rate and approximately in what time period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14120	Thank you very much. Minister Slavko Linic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14121	Thank you, ma'am. Reforms are a problem for Croatia, let's get away from them. Tax reform is very important if I want to have a competitive Croatian economy. Reform is also important if we finally pass a law whereby units of local self-government will have their original and transparent income. Local self-government units have the highest income based on a municipal fee that does not exist in Europe, does not exist in the world. The finance ministry is primarily trying to tackle the financing of local self-government units in a transparent manner. And that's the message. We're running out of communal fees, and we're running out of house tax. It's about the taxes we're going to change and we're going to call them real estate taxes. So next year, real estate taxes are being prepared which will be the income of the original unit of local self-government and will serve them to finance their needs. The biggest problem with municipal compensation is that it was related to the Law on municipal activity, and the municipal activities of many have already ceased in these 20 years of Croatia's existence and market harmonisation of Croatia, so it is a huge problem that the funds are not intended to benefit from. Or vice versa, as we say, Zadar builds its pool and its halls on the burden of all Croatian citizens, and otherwise there is nothing poorer than Rijeka, and the Rijeka build their own pool and their own hall. That's the difference why we're pushing something that every citizen has to finance with their taxes. That's what we want. Stop politically building on the burden of every Croatian citizen your standard. With our taxes, we must ensure that, and that is what we want very clearly to change. So for next year, we go on real estate tax as part of the assets we have. All taxes will be part of, not the income of the state budget, but the unit of local self-government. And what's also important is that we once stop taxing citizens by square and locality. We believe that citizens should be taxed on the value of property, because as you can see, all these new rich people have built beautiful villas, beautiful fairies, I would say pools, all of them. It's all a sign of wealth and we think it's easy to participate in the incomes of its local self-government and according to value, not just according to locality. And that's the basic purpose of these future real estate taxes. I have to tell the Ministry of Finance to help us from the Association of Cities, International Institutions, especially free aid we received from the IMF who gave us world experts to bring our taxes in line with European and world standards. I'm not talking about the geodetic, the Ministry of Justice, who is very committed to all the problems we have with the land books. So we're very serious and we're serious about this part. And we believe that in a month we will first come out with very clear messages and suggestions. And what needs to be said citizens won't pay much more than they are now paying whether through communal or household taxes. What we consider to be a bigger tax is going to be if we don't use the property, if that property stands for some speculant intent because that's what we want to change. When it comes to the building, it will be worth it, when it comes to land and we mean construction and agriculture, unfortunately for next year we'll have to go to squares because of the lack of traffic we don't have valuable quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14122	Thank you very much, Minister. A comment of a respected representative, no thank you, no comment. Now's our chance to give notice. The session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament will take place today on 18 September this year after the actual clock was completed in the hall "Stjepan Radic". Thank you very much. Next parliamentary issue in 33rd and respected representative Marija Vukbratovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Jakovina. The agriculture ministry, as well as others, has repeatedly pointed out that by joining the EU, we will have more than 300m euros for rural development. It is known that the previous government also boasted the successes around EU funds, however, it was eventually announced that the use of these funds, and in particular the IPARD, is extremely low. I wonder what the Ministry of Agriculture has done so far to facilitate the procedures for withdrawing funds from the IPARD programme. What has been done specifically to make Croatian farmers and businesses easier to get money from IPARD? Furthermore, how do you plan to simplify procedures, reduce huge administration and red tape and the amount of necessary paper to get some program into the process at all? My question is: since the date of entry has come closer, do you work on the Strategy for Rural Development and are your services trained and ready to assist our farmers in the development of projects?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14124	Thank you very much. Answer, Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members of Parliament after taking over and handing over to the Ministry of Agriculture in December and following an analysis of the situation, i.e. debts and obligations the first thing I asked of professional services is to make me a quality analysis of the usefulness of pre-accession funds by the programmes that were available to us. The data were as follows: for the SAPARD programme that was valid for us from 2006 to 2009 we had 25 million euros at our disposal – the usability was 48%. For the IPARD programme for the programming period, i.e. 2007 alocation. – 2011 which is available to us by the end of 2013 in the first two years of possible use, means we are talking about 2010 and 2011, a total of 64 projects of which 13 have been completed and paid at an acceptable amount of 22 million 750 thousand kuna, which is 1.77% of the available funds. I will note that for the IPARD program, unlike the SAPARD, where we had 25 million per IPARD program, we had at our disposal or we still have 161m euros at our disposal. What do you say? 1.77% was usability. What did we do? In the formation of the ministry itself, we have created a special Directorate for Rural Development of the EU and International Co-operation, we have set up all agencies, all services in a way that our funds and the usability of funds and projects are an absolute priority. The home administration, but I'm also talking about the paying agency that has a particular sector exclusively for the management and control of the projects themselves has been strengthened, and within our agencies we've found employees that we've transferred to the projects themselves. Then the public advisory service... which is also what this House of the High by changing the law in some way helped us put into service services, good service, or support for agricultural producers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian Agricultural Agency, all of those agency services work maximum on that part. Resort management, i.e. the ministry, has made a number of quality shifts in this area in order to make the most of the benefits, and above all we have given a quality tender plan for 2012, so that all potential users are the owners of family agricultural economies, crafts or businesses can apply quality to whether 101, 103, 301st unit of local self-government or 302th measure we now have in the announcement. Then, together with good practice of inter-resorship cooperation and with the Ministry of Civil Engineering, we have made some changes in sub-legal acts, here I am talking about rules for simple buildings, where we have made it possible to change that regulation that our vegetable growers in protected greenhouse conditions, plastics can have a much better ability to run according to projects for their sector. With the Ministry of Environmental Protection, we have also simplified the procedure for issuing some of their acts related to environmental impact studies or the like. With public companies where the same thing could be encrypted, I'm talking about HEP and the like, about obtaining permits, we've speeded up that possibility and tracking projects that are already running. With our HBOR development bank, we also did our part of the job in that part of HAMAG's line of credit. And I think the procedure here is much easier and faster. In the procedure itself, as far as it's concerned, we've found ways to make it more accessible, faster, more efficient. All services, primarily this administration of ours, but all those who can actually become quality and good support to all agricultural producers in the preparation of projects, application of projects as such. The result is that in the first 9 months of this year, I'm talking about 2012, we've got 155 projects agreed out of which 27 projects have been completed and paid for in the amount of 35 million 647 thousand. So two and a half times more project applications in nine months than two years before that. We're not satisfied yet. The last two sets of competitions we have a very large number of applications, we are talking about 153 projects worth over 450 million kunas. We need to be even better and stronger, but the results of this way of working are that way. We have a strategy, it's working, and according to it, the funds that will only be available to us, I'm talking about 333 million euros per year for rural development will be used to a greater extent than was planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14126	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marija Vukbratovic? Nothing. Thank you very much. So you agree with the answer. Next question of the 34th and Honorable representative Nancy Tyrelli. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my question to Mr. Prime Minister. We are often here to visit the municipalities, cities, businesses all over Croatia where there is a problem and where citizens expect you to respond as prime minister. As you were in Sisak for Željezara Sisak, you said you would do everything in your power to keep the jobs, that the citizens, or workers, continue to work in that hardware store. However, the situation is very different from that statement. You also talked about the problem of Gredel and promised to find a funding model to continue production. Today, the Gredel situation is completely different. On several occasions here in the Assembly today, you answered the question of parliamentary deputies, and I will respect it. Presenting your government in this House, you said: "Your vision rests on the protection of an individual from the power of authority and state.". Those are your words. Last week, together with the first Deputy Prime Minister, you visited Labin and said at the meeting where you were with representatives of the local administration and regional government of the city of Labin and the municipality of Krshan, Pic, St. Sunday and Rush that these were people whom the citizens trusted to lead and that together with their councils would make the decision they made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14128	Question. It's a question of respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14129	I now quote the words you said. My question to you is exactly what it means to say, "It will make the decision they make." Does this mean that you will respect the decision of the City Council of Labin, the decisions of the municipal councils and the County Assembly regarding the construction of the thermopower plant Block C. Which personally means protection of individuals and their rights to you, on a specific case of the Plomin thermal power plant. When decisions by the Istrian County District Assembly on the capacity and energy of the thermal power plant are not respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14130	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14131	And that's the decision they've made, and I'm finishing up with the county council, so the people who have been elected by the citizens to be their voice management in the fight against the power of power of government and state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14132	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the respected Croatian Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14133	Dear fellow Members, I am concerned with individual freedoms and the challenges facing him by the Social Democrats, but I am also a liberal and libertarian. Thank you for finally, finally, finally someone quotes me well here in the Parliament. All of these quotes have been mostly wrong so far, I'm not going to say "invented," but in a significantly wrong one, so it's intentionally wrong. You've well quoted my statement that we'll respect it. However, you have begun your question with the thesis of legality and respect for the law. So now I ask the question, what does the law say about the competences of individual bodies and the level of government? Is the competence of the county one or the other, is it the competence of the municipal council to decide these matters? It's not. However, despite this, I went down with my colleague, the first vice president, or I rarely go to Croatia and I rarely promise to do so. I may not be enough among people, unlike my predecessors who were constant, half of the government was in the field. That way work can't be done, I don't do it and I won't do it. The beam you mentioned here, I never said a word, but what you quoted, I did because I respect those people, we went down. They're representatives of all municipalities, 5 if I'm not mistaken from the Labinstina. We thus, even Labinstein, gave some kind of political identity that she doesn't have, which she doesn't have, has Istria as a county. I deeply respect that and know this diversity, but when it comes to a thermal power plant that's been there for decades, although it seems to me, here's a nice, cleaner place than Zagreb definitely. When it comes to thermal power plants, it's something about a wider circle of people from neighbouring Slovenia and Rijeka, and Opatija, and Matulja, and Gorski Kotar, and Buja, and Trieste, that's a broader question. Slovenians, as you know, do similar things in Maribor, say it's okay. With the people of these municipalities, the mayors of the municipalities, it was like that, it was mostly one political party but it was also from HDZ, so they're reasonable people who probably know what their interests are and it's up to us to talk to them. I went to Labin who knows which time in the last few years I've been aware of going to a city where people systematically give us a huge number of votes and realize that bad politics can lose it as well as in Zadar, as well as in Zagreb. And I expected, because that was the tension that people would protest, some from belief, some from calculator initiatives. However, at 11 o'clock when we arrived there was no living soul, no one welcomed us except our host representatives of the local government. We talked to them, they got concrete promises that we'd turn into a contract. They knew very well, and they know what this was about, and what financial benefit it was for that environment and what technology it was. After a technology that has been polluting there for 30 years, because they are all contaminants, and that end is to kill a nice, neat, clean, but unfortunately limited to what Poreč, Umag, Rovinj can do. There may be tourism in this area. When we were going out, we were welcomed by two or three people with a transparency, and I spoke to them, and I said that we talked to the representatives of the government, because it's just important, so modern politics can only be run. But there are competences, when you talk about law and legality, then you know what's in the competence of the central government or we change that. We can change that, and it's not said that it can't be done, but then it opens up a whole spectrum of issues, of highway financing, of hospitals, it costs a lot. The state is holding those reins for now. It is a political burden for us, for me, for my colleagues Jovanovic and for all those who must object to those who defend certain rights. If we move that to local administration and local self-government, there's a serious problem, politically. It's easier for us as politicians, we'll say we're not responsible. We wonder, however, how many hospitals would survive, how many public institutions would survive. I say, we can go that way, it's a deal. That's big questions. But yes, to conclude, it's over. So, we talked, we'll talk. We know what we were saying in the campaign, we were pretty clear, we won't hunt over slaughter, so Croatia has to diversify the risk of energy supply, it's been coal there for decades. Now a new step should come, cleaner technology and greater benefit for the local community. If I have to do it again, I'll do it ten times because I believe that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14134	Thank you very much. Commentary, esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14135	I'm partially satisfied with the answer, because you didn't actually answer my question: "What does it mean for you will make a decision about what it will make?" So I didn't get an answer to your question. And as for competence and legality, I can only say, so what is not the county's competence to bring its own spatial plan. The County of Istria has adopted its spatial plan and as such has been accepted by the relevant state institutions. In my view, therefore, this plan is also relevant and how legal it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14136	Thank you very much. Next issue of 35th and Honorable Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since today we have managed to recall almost all of the former leaders of this country, then here is one question about theatre agendas as well. So, Professor Šipuš, how is it possible that one of the central cultural institutions of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb, is currently in the situation of the 4th Indentation Competition? How is it possible that the people who were supposed to lead to the election of individuals have led to this situation and how will the Ministry of Culture set up in this case?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14138	Thank you very much. Deputy Secretary Shipush's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14139	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Honorable Representative Coleman. Here's the situation, according to the Law of Theatres competitions for a new intensifier or... HNK in Zagreb is scheduled a year before the term of office of the current intensifier or indemnity in this case, and according to this, at the order of the Theatre Council, the Croatian Professional Service ordered the publication of the competition on 11 April 2012 in the National Journal and Vesnik. Vesnik printed an ad on the given date, and the National Journal published an ad two days later, however, without mentioning that the competition starts from the date of the first publication. The HNK itself theatre council noticed the failure, cancelled the competition, and 13th April launched a new second competition. This repeated competition had to be annulled again because it was found that the HNK statute did not comply with the 2009 Regulation on scientific and artistic areas and the better branches, so the text of the ad misstated both the degree of education and the scientific fields on which applicants could apply. The HNK Theatre Council also annulled this tender on 26 April 2012 and following the alignment of the HNK Statute with this Regulation on scientific and artistic areas, fields and branches was also announced on 23 May 2012. The competition was rightly and implemented but a new intensifier was not chosen because the minister of culture of the Republic of Zagreb and the mayor of Zagreb had no joint proposal for candidates to go to the government of the Republic of Croatia. According to Article 25. The Law on Theatres Government appoints a new intensifier or ingenuity but needs a joint proposal and culture ministers in this Republic and the mayor of Zagreb. In the HNK Statute in Zagreb, Article 24 also states that when there is no joint candidate, the HNK Theatre Council is obliged to call a new tender, which was held on 14 September this year, and we hope that all legal and all laws will now be re-implemented, and I think it is important to note that both the HNK Theatre Council and the Ministry of Culture followed what is happening. ...that procedures are legal and not random.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14140	Thank you very much, Deputy Secretary. Honorable representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14141	I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14142	Thank you very much. We're going to the next 36th parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14143	Thank you. My question is to the Minister of Management, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Dear Minister, there are often complaints in the public that there is a large complicated and insufficiently effective administration in Croatia. There are a large number of institutions and centres whose activity is insufficiently known to the public but the funding of these institutions is therefore spent on a large amount of funding from the state budget. If you are judging by the frequent allegations from the media, there seems to be a major disturbance in that segment, that wages are determined beyond the rules that should apply to state or public services, in one word to a state in a state that is not responsible and at least to citizens. My question is how will the process of rationalizing and bringing into order such institutions take place? When could this process be completed and what concrete results of this process be visible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14144	Thank you very much. The answer to the question asked, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14145	I appreciate the question. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The Ministry of Administration, by implementing the Government of the Republic of Croatia's policy on rationalising the systems of agencies, institutes and other bodies to be addressed by the Public Service Payments Act here, I am speaking from an aspect of the cost level required by the resolution ministries to carry out administrative supervision under the Public Sector Payments Act. The results of administrative supervision showed that in most institutions wages were not determined in accordance with the law in a manner provided for by law but that agencies or their administrative bodies themselves determined the height and coefficients on the basis of which the salaries were paid. I stress once again that it is about those agencies and institutions that are being secured in the state budget. No case has been reported that these coefficients were less than those in the state service. Now, by signing a collective contract with civil servants, the government of the Republic of Croatia has pledged that the same work being done for the state in those institutions will be worth the same salary as in the state service. For those special jobs that will result in the establishment of such agencies, special coefficients that will also be prescribed by the Government and not by the institutions themselves will also apply. At this point, the supervision has been completed in all institutions and by the end of the year the Government of the Republic of Croatia will bring me three additions to the regulation on the names of the coefficients and complexity of public service transactions that will regulate the coefficients in those institutions. If, of course, the exact amount of savings could not be said at this time, but if the average salaries were to be brought to the level of those in the state service, the savings at the annual level would be around 100 million kuna. I believe that this will also help the credibility of the government but also our relations with the trade unions to show that we want to be in the same business with the same employer, which is the state for all the same rules. This case has caused a lot of reactions to the public but also to the civil servants themselves and not only as regards savings but also as regards elemental logic and fundamental justice that people who do the same job for the same employer have the same salary, and that for those special we know why they are special, where they are special and how much more special they are than others. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted a rationalisation plan in 2010 but unfortunately did not implement it, so we will do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14146	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Representative Drazenko Pandek, comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14147	Thank you. I would especially like to appeal once again for the process to be made visible to the public, as well as the work and especially the results of the work of those institutions that we have spoken about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14148	Thank you very much. 37th question and respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14149	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, today you are on several occasions and it happened so in fact that you have insulted the opposition MPs and said that I do not have to address you with respect but I address you with respect as the president of my Croatian government in my Croatian state. And tomorrow you will officially visit the Federal Republic of Germany, a country that has played perhaps a key role in the international recognition of the Republic of Croatia. The Federal Republic of Germany has delayed ratification of Croatia's accession treaty for the spring of 2013 even though it was expected to happen by the end of this year. It is also known that there is a large number of Croats in Germany who are partly for economic and political reasons, and remember only in 1962, 700 thousand Croats left Croatia, 700 thousand. And many were born outside of Croatia, and I am one of them and that Croatia not only understands but also loves what those who have felt life outside the country of Croatia know best. Counting on this particular love, the love of evicted and native Croatia is best understood by President Tudjman, who managed to direct this energy towards one goal, which is the creation of a Croatian state. Therefore, your message today, a statement that you gave to Mr Stier in which, because of the fact that he was born outside Croatia, you challenged the understanding of Croatia and the love of Croatia, is, in fact, a hate speech and an unacceptable message to the entire Croatian diaspora whose limitless patriotism can be used by the smart government in promoting the interest of the Republic of Croatia in countries where they live, as well as in helping the Croatian diaspora in this difficult economic situation through their investments because, in the creation of the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14150	A question of honor, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14151	They were willing to give up, apologize, and sacrifice their lives, I think they are ready to help Croatia. My question about this, thank you for your time, whether delaying the ratification of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and Germany is the reason for the non-compliance with the obligations undertaken by the judiciary or by the non-compliance of Croatian authorities with the rights of the German judicial authorities towards certain persons suspected by the German investigative authorities of participation in the physical liquidation of Croatian immigrants and whether, on the occasion of your visit to Germany and meeting with the Croats in Germany, you will send such demeaning messages to the Croatian diaspora as you told Mr Stier that they do not understand Croatia and that this is why I cannot even love it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14152	Thank you. Answer, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Mr Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14153	Dear colleague, do you really think these tricks still work? Well, let me answer that. There are differences between people. I know a lot of people who work for the Croatian state, a lot of, 10 who were born here or went outside so they had contacts, they've been here for 20 years, the doctors of science are etc., etc. And they're not all the same. I was talking here, when you already insist on a person, I'm trying to be impersonal to this person that I worked with at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that's absolutely nothing to me, but I had my cuts that were principled and since I know I dare say that he doesn't understand Croatia, yes, that he doesn't understand, that he came here very late, that his ideology was simply as if he had come from the American Middle West. It may be worth it somewhere, it is no offense, it is simply a political fact but that as a Croatian citizen he is elected, he has the right to sit here in the Parliament and speak as much as he wants. Our policy is let them hear, let them hear, and when they speak from the Slavonic party of the HDSSB let people hear what people have to say, let them give themselves up. I see that some people here have a problem with me talking for four minutes. There hasn't been a current morning for five months, so don't you think the prime minister's going to be embarrassed to speak as long as possible and should be of interest to you? Thus, these suggestive questions, or capcio questions, which already impose an answer, are difficult to answer. There are differences between people, there are differences in Croatian understanding. The answer to your question as far as I know, so I wouldn't talk about it with a German Chancellor who I've talked to on more occasions since I've been president of the Croatian Government, as you know today that possibility is informally much wider than it used to be, you just need to have a little sense, a little language, access to people and know what your national interests are. I don't mean to talk about these charges or the warrants because as far as I know the one you're targeting is, and you correct me in your answer, withdrawn a few months ago, withdrawn. It's the Bavarian prosecution. But I agree with you that the state therefore had police methods and that it was killing people outside, and it's clear that some people need to answer for it, and they never will. What people are, I don't know, I wasn't a member, I wasn't into these things, we're just gonna follow the law, but you make sure you're right. It seems to me that the person you're alluding to, I'm not going to mention her here, she's just freed from persecution or that persecution has been taken down against her. As far as the final ratification of the agreement is concerned, you should cheer for it. Therefore, Croatia is doing very well in fulfilling its commitments, even those imposed on us in the negotiating chapters and which have nothing to do with the relationship. Let's say the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. 200 people reported to that contest as if it were a tram driver's competition, so let no one be offended, but here each of us can learn to drive a tram in a month. So a terriblely responsible job was reported by 200 people. We warned that it was a travesty, that it was a body with enormous powers and that it was an unserious experiment. If you ask me such bodies, so we're talking about fulfilling our obligations, we meet that obligation, it's bad, it humiliates us as a state. Why would the president of the main opposition party not be at the head of the Committee for Conflict of Interest and have the right to say whatever he wants, or to put political pressure on him, it used to be. It was Mr. Leco, he wasn't the president of the SDP, so it's a pressure body as they say among the equals... So we simply dig for each other if you want to, but not to be the parapressive body that 200 people have come to because they've heard it's a good pay. [[She doesn't understand.]] It's a crisis. That's where I expect you to back me up. I said I don't want to make any simple decisions about it here. We are now in a position to choose these people as an ordinary majority because of your law. I don't want to, because they're going to accuse me of choosing our friends who answered and who's going to dig into your accounts. That's wrong. There are courts and police, state's attorney's office, court orders. Let's respect the state. It's our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14154	Thank you, too, dear President of the Croatian Government. Honorable representative Ante Babic as a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14155	Well, I'm partly pleased with your response, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. But I was talking about it, about ratification, and that's what Mr. Stier said. Only 14 countries have actually signed that so far and you are now going to Germany. I think there is another reason more, and this is the fear of German investor Rheinisch-Westfaelisches Elektrizitäts wörk who actually does not invest in the Republic of Croatia because of tax and legal uncertainty. I'm not sure what you said, but if that's true, then it's like, a long time ago as a sword hanging over our heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14156	Thank you, Your Honor. 38th parliamentary issue and respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Dear Mr. Minister, as you know from all groups in society, the situation of the pensioners is particularly difficult. For years, pensions did not line up with salaries, making their economic situation more difficult. It's estimated to be because of the so-called. freezing pensions average pensioner in Croatia cut off by at least 10% of their purchasing power. In the first half of the year since you were at the head of this resistor, certain shifts have been made but as the most responsible person in charge of the pensioner's position, you know that this is not far enough. So I ask you, tell me exactly what you plan to do next year to improve the situation of the pensioner and that our pensioner lives on the life of a decent man.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14158	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14159	Dear Madam MPs, unfortunately, the pensioners over the past two years have not been the group the government has been taking care of. So, 2010. In 2011, when HDZ was in power, pensions were frozen. Therefore, that article 84, which adjusted pensions annually according to the Swiss formula, was not implemented and the pensioners were therefore suspended by one considerable amount of funding. And when we talk about what it means, it means that the purchasing power of the pensioner has fallen somewhere by at least 10%. By coming to power, this government, and in its 21 programme, said that pensioners would not be those on whom the burden of the crisis would be broken and that the pensioners would not be the ones on which we would base the stabilisation of the budget and the stabilisation of the state. So we immediately unfreeze the article 84, and as you know, we have already coordinated our pensions to that Swiss formula on two occasions. We'll form the National Council of Retired. Last negotiations are under way, and I hope that somewhere now at the end of the month, at the beginning of October, we will have the first session of the National Council of Retireds, realizing that pensioners' associations, representatives of pensioners, are a very important body which, together with the Government, will consider politics when we talk about pensions themselves and pension insurance itself. At that session of the National Council, we will also discuss how to improve the pension system. He's a little tense right now. We have 1.19 workers on a pensioner. Some may recall that 20 years ago in Croatia, we had 2 million people who worked and only 500,000 pensioners saying that the system itself was overstretched, that the long-term difficult is sustainable and this government is working to start reform the pension system, to keep pensions as they are. We will therefore discuss with the representatives of the pensioners further coordination mechanisms. So, is it going to be a Swiss formula, an excerpt of the Swiss formula or something? We will also open the issue of retirement, the way you retire, and what is also a characteristic of the pension system in Croatia that we are unfortunately one of the few countries in Europe that has the largest number of disability pensions which either we are a sick nation or some things don't understand. Probably some things don't work out, so we've also said in the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act that we're going to centralize all the experts involved in disability insurance, so those who determine the disabled are going to be centralized in one place at the Medical Skills Center. By doing so, we will allow someone who can no longer work for work or for illness to go into invalid retirement and prevent those abuses that have taken place in recent years. We will also set up a rehabilitation system, which means that we will change the way we think in Croatia, that when someone gets disability to then assess what can't be done, and we want to say what this man can do, to adjust his job and then retire, full-age retirement, to make that pension bigger than disabled. So, the backbone is a conversation with the pensioners and the creation of a single national body that will be responsible together with the government for the entire pension reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14160	Thank you very much, Minister. Comment, Your Honor... Thank you very much. Before the next parliamentary question, one notice. The 10th session of the Tourism Committee will take place today at 1600 hours, the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic, chairman of the Committee Goran Beus Richembergh. Next 39. A parliamentary question and a respected representative, Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister. The project to connect Bjelovar with road and rail infrastructure is one of the most important preconditions for economic recovery and the creation of fundamental assumptions to boost the interests of domestic and foreign investors to invest in the Bjelovar-Belgar County. The completion of the construction of the A13 highway is therefore a question of life for this region. The largest part of this direction from St Helena to Bjelovar has been completed and about 600 million kuna has been invested in the Vrbovec – Gradec stock so far. Gradec – Bjelovar remains no more than 30km, and one of the many SDP's pre-election promises was of course that the stock will end by the end of this year, as former Minister Komadina said at the beginning of the mandate. However, he who declared in the campaign that it would be so elegantly sheltered in Podravka as the chairman of the administration. It's a simple question. Which is why this project was stopped when there is all the necessary documentation for it, when the buildings and routes have already been built for more than 100 million kunas and when the entire Gradec-Bjelovar section needs to be built for less than 17 million kunas and routes for approximately 80 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14162	Thank you, counsel. Croatian Prime Minister respected Zoran Milanovic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14163	Thank you. It's not stopped and it won't be stopped and it's going to be over and it's going to be relatively fast. When HDZ took over, I hate this discourse, that I have to go back to 2003, so when HDZ took power with its authorities in Croatia in 2003 on 2004 correct me, until Vrbovac there was half a highway. What's up to now in the last eight years is the Vrbovecka bypass. It's a nice, small town in Zagreb County, but smaller than Los Angeles. So, it's not like it's a bit of an open boredom. That's the result of eight years of work, half the highway around Vrbovac. And now we still have to go to Bjelovar and Koprivnica. I believe we'll do it without the money, but we promised voters as well as the railroad because I see that from Koprivnica to Zagreb travels 45 minutes by train. The worst thing about 30 years ago was 55 minutes, and now it travels a lot longer. And that's the result of eight years of someone's administration. And it's not good. Did we throw a fire for it? We didn't. Therefore, do not say that it has given up. Some things gave up, funding from the budget because there's no money. The Peleski Bridge is a European project, who knows maybe we get some European funds from this, as well as for the railroad. So, we'll fight for it, but we won't promise you, and I won't certainly come to the honorable word before the local elections opening the papers there or closing it even if it's over I won't be coming to close them. Here's my promise, I'll probably be in Zagreb, and I'll do something for the government and for Croatia, do some mistakes, some good things. And finally, since this is the last question Last question to me, so I'm gonna use these two minutes. [[/Intruder: No, it's not.]] So, if I'm out of line in something, I apologize, but believe me, so are you. Let's try telling the truth, let's try not to shut each other up or shut up because this is an opportunity to open things up. Remember the debates I do not know in the British Parliament that are on the verge of comics, mockery but with some measure, where it is not quoted falsely, where it is a play for the public, but not a farce, but a good play that is directed by actors who have both gestures and faces, as Arsen Dedić sings. It's all part of politics, but if we're gonna shut each other up, we're not gonna get anywhere. I'm still asking you to ask me which people are employed politically... Yes, yes, you, you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't forget that. No, no, I'm not the bad guy, but I remember. To ask me who the people who are fostered are. You saw here, unfortunately, one of the ministers left this summer. With her, unfortunately, like... Her associates who worked there for two months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's democracy, it's standards. None of these people will find their refuge underneath, therefore, in secret, and one day wake up in some administration as a civil servant. You won't see that. Those who come with politics leave with politics because the assumption is that they have not come from the street and are not political profiteers. Public companies, unfortunately we will have to cut labour costs here, so that the taxpayers in Slavonia and Istria do not pay for this heating because in Vukovar the unit price of central heating is three times higher than in Zagreb. In Vukovar, it's a private activity there. Here's my town expected to buy HEP 5 and sell 2. It doesn't work, it doesn't work. However, so as not to transfer responsibility to others, to the assembly, to the mayor who is constantly in the campaign to object that these are "Kukuriku" cities, or cities where the kukuriku is not in power. It's interesting why they're the only ones left for corrections, why have nothing been done in them so far? We will legally transfer that responsibility to ourselves. So none of these heroes have to raise their hands for something that's unpopular. I'll get it because it doesn't go any other way. Otherwise, all Croatian and Vukovar citizens will have to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14164	Thank you very much. Here's your Honorable representative, Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14165	Well, Mr. Prime Minister, you're not expected to answer the question of why the project was stopped because it was stopped and for your information, the stock is open to Gradec, it's 30 km away from Vrbovac. And more than 100 million kunas were invested in the buildings. The first vice president to you knows what that means. You've stopped the project and maintained the cold drive, that's a fact. And you used, of course, your four minutes away to talk about something that I absolutely didn't ask you as well as actually this whole day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14166	Thank you, Your Honor. Next, last, 40th parliamentary issue and respected representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14167	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. My question was addressed to Mr. Finance Minister Slavko Linic. Dear Mr. Minister, we all know what a difficult situation this government has taken over the economy in the Republic of Croatia. One of the bigger problems is the indifference and poor financial discipline of a large number of actors. With these two problems, the ministry has come into play and the results have already become visible. It is clear that the price of this settlement in the field of liquidity is a risk of the bankruptcy of a large number of non-equity companies. One example is unfortunately the company "Autotransport d.d." from Sibenik. It is a private company, which mainly by the bad moves of its administration, has accumulated a tax debt of HRK 64 million, and whose majority owner is "Auto Transport Varazdin" in bankruptcy. It is a company based on its tradition and position on the market through the possession of a significant number of licenses and concessions for line transport has a realistic perspective to successfully get out of the situation in which it was brought. It is a company that feeds at the moment 190 families, whose disappearance from the market would cause significant problems in the organisation of public urban transport, but also in county transport. The question I want to ask you is whether and what programs the Ministry of Finance has to try to save companies that are like Sibenik's "Autotransport d.d." which have a major impact on the quality of life and on the functioning of the local community, but on the other hand have the potential for profitable business on the market?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14168	Thank you very much. Answering the question, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14169	I thank you for asking, Mr. Representative. At the intervention of mayors and administrations from Sibenik in the last three months, the Ministry of Finance together with the city administration tried to solve the problem of the company "Autotransport d.d." in Sibenik. Not only because of our claim of nearly 68 million kuna, but also what we have data from 158 employees. As we estimated that the majority owner of the company, Varazdin, was in bankruptcy, we felt that we could provide a change of ownership to provide a new owner who would provide part of the money for modernising the means of transport itself, paying the obligation by way of either lease or purchase, and that at the same time the government could make a decision regarding 68 million claims. I have to say that the former government has only doubled twice or in some way delayed the charge, so since 2010, from 54 million debt has risen to 68, and as we can see, apart from not being paid, last year has ended with a loss. And the assessment at the ministry was that it was also a bad administration and that we needed to change it. And when only in some way came to an agreement, which means that the bankruptcy manager became aware that he was not managing, that he had left the management to the minority owner, which is private persons in Sibenik, he accepted that we would try to find a partner who would study within so that the government could make a decision on its claim. At that moment, the management decided to file bankruptcy and to launch the bankruptcy of Autotransport Sibenik. For us it is also no problem to run bankruptcy, is with concessions that has Autotransport at the same time with workers who are quality in doing their job, I think we can very quickly, especially as the government is the biggest believer in this case, find a solution, find a new owner and as soon as possible end up in a situation and save the company and save jobs. But it is evident that either the creditors will manage the company, which we have tried, or it will be done by the court, but these are the only ways to remove the failures of the administrations, the irresponsible owners and all those who have essentially used the possibility of irresponsible behavior, have left debts especially to the state. And then we wonder that we have to keep cutting wages and restricting many, many payments in the state budget, when we kill with this behavior of irresponsible people we created problems and employees, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance, not only on this case, negotiates with each debtor, with every potential owner about changing the structure if he does not go, but unfortunately, bankruptcy is the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14170	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14171	I thank you for your reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-18-0.u14172	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and respected MPs, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Croatian Deputy Prime Ministers, members, ministers, I assess not only what I am assessing but the current morning in the Croatian Parliament is organized and designed to make citizens listen to the current issues that affect citizens, representatives, companies and all others. Under the slogan, I suggest we always keep the current morning under the slogan, "Let them hear." or "Let's hear it." "Let's knock."that won't help the citizens. This is the current morning that's over. We keep working on the agenda tomorrow. The first item of the agenda tomorrow is at 9.30 p.m.: the decision of the mandated immunity commission to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Petar Cobankovic-confirmation. Thank you very much. We've finished our session today. Dear MPs and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament can begin work on the established agenda. The first item of the agenda is: 1. Decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to grant authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Petar Cobankovic – Confirmation of the decision Please give the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to Mrs Gordan Sobol to submit a report.
