ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5855	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the fourth session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, Vice President, Vice-President and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, you received the minutes of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? Here's Mr. Representative Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5856	Mr. President, I'm reporting on behalf of the MPs' club, not on record, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5857	You can repeat, I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5858	I'm reporting on behalf of the House of Representatives Club, not bound by the minutes. We're looking for a break for the decision of the Assembly Presidency on Bleiburg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5859	You can't ask for a break now because we're going to set up a agenda and we can't ask for a break from the Rules of Procedure. When you, Mr. Agent Vinkovic, presidencies, may change the Rules of Procedure in a way that you do not apply it. [[Intruder: You can.]] But as long as I'm president, then we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Here's what I'm saying, so... Here you go. Did you find the article? Okay. Thank you for finding him soon. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you were given the final draft agenda, and in the final agenda I included 8 new points and that: 1. Proposed to show confidence in the Master of Science Sinisha Hajdash Doncic for his duties as Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. 2. The Mandate-Immunity Commission reports. 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Centre for the Implementation of the Law on Southeastern Europe with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64. 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement establishing a functional Central Europe air traffic block with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 67. 5. Proposal for a law implementing Regulation No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1907/2006, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 66. Six. Proposal for a law on designations of origin, geographical indications and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products with a final proposal for law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 68. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attending Activity with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 65. And eight. Proposal to launch a trust issue with Željko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Proposer of 33 MPs members of the HDZ Club. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under the agenda are proposed, you have them in front of you, so I will not read them, from 3 to 14, and under points 16 and 18. So I repeat once again, all interested in the late debate, that the proposed laws under item 3 to 14, and under points 16 and 18 are to be adopted by an urgent procedure. You can't, see why you're picking up? [[Mr. President.../]] Yeah, but you can't answer now, we haven't gotten to the agenda yet, practically. [[Salapić: For the agenda.]] Yeah, I'm reading. [[Invader Salapic: Read the laws.]] Do you have what I read in front of you, or do I have to read them all individually that I can just read? What? [[Invader Salapic: Not all of us.]] You have the final draft agenda proposed to you [[Invader Salapic: Not all of us.]] You don't have it. [[We don't have a Mr. President, so I called.]] That maybe you don't have [[Intruder Salapic: We don't have any.]] What? [[Upadica Salapić: Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, President...]] Then I'll read it. I have no choice. We'll waste our time. I thought I'd rationalize the weather. I don't know if, how come you don't have any here, and everyone else has one. Here you see your colleagues and colleagues have. How about we share some more with you who are missing? It's not a selective approach. That must be some kind of slip from your side, maybe on the side of the service. It's hard to say. That'll take a few minutes while I read it, so I'll read it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5860	President, we're looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5861	You can't ask for a break right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5862	So we can look.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5863	Well, look, you can't ask for a break because the agenda is being determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5864	I beg you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5865	Don't ask me to break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5866	We don't have agenda points. You're reading the agenda we can't track. We don't have agenda points. Can we do this seriously or can't we?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5867	Look, you know what I'm going to tell you, the service says they've divided all the MPs into benches of the agenda proposal. I'm asking you nicely, if you'd like to do it another time, we'll do it on signature, and we'll further complicate the procedure. And we can do that. But here's what we're going to do. Whoever doesn't, please, whoever doesn't, here, let him answer here, they'll get a draft agenda. Does anyone else have any questions? Thank you. Now I ask if any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Once again, the emergency procedure suggests points 3 to 14 in the materials you have in front of you and points 16 and 18. Here you are, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5868	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I ask my colleagues not to laugh or worry about questions that are normal in the Croatian Parliament. We colleagues are agents, this is not a circus to laugh at our questions, it's nothing funny. The president of the HDZ Club opposes the urgent law-making process in everyone you've read because I couldn't follow you because I didn't have the material. Secondly, I ask you as President of the Croatian Parliament that the laws in this manner do not enter the emergency procedure because it is not true that the Law on Cemeteries, the Law on Hosting Activities and the laws that have come to the Assembly must be followed by an urgent procedure. And this is the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament that Parliament has done nothing for four weeks without 20 laws and all more or less in the emergency procedure. I ask you as President of the Croatian Parliament to influence the integrity of the Parliament, the work of the Parliament and that the laws do not come to the Croatian Parliament in this manner by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5869	But since you've taken the urgency of the procedure as a right, I've given you some qualifications that aren't related to the urgency of the procedure, then I'll tell you, otherwise I don't like it, in 2007, just the last term, and I won't mention the last one, for a month and a half was a step away from the Parliament's work after the constitutive session as you know it. We started working very soon after the constitutional session and then we worked until the break you mentioned. Now, that's true, and don't accuse us of not working, and it's a long break, that the government is not doing its job. Because that's just not true. You have therefore suggested that all of these legislative proposals, which are proposed, should be considered as an emergency procedure, not to be considered as an emergency procedure, but rather to go into procedure. That's the essence of your proposal. Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up about the urgency of the procedure? Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5870	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDSSB Club, I'm just going to take a quick look at these debates you're having about the seas, since this government, too, continues to follow the old rule and puts into parliamentary procedure a series of laws under the emergency procedure of the HDSB Club, opposes the adoption of three laws by emergency procedure. This is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Since the whole public debate has not been conducted and the adoption of this law does not involve those who are actually engaged in agricultural production except for some to say the sympathetic associations and trade unions of one or two members. We also believe that without a wider public debate, this proposal of the Agricultural Advisory Act should not go into emergency procedures, since I remind myself that in the past term these two laws were passed by emergency procedure, so it is obvious that here after 2.5 years, after the incarceration of certain personnel in the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture who obviously do not correspond to the political new authorities or have resigned under pressure, they again want to go into an emergency procedure. And the following law is the proposal of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on Cemeteries. Since we believe that this law should also be extended to two parts, i.e. if the proposal is intended by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to legalise existing cemeteries, built morgues that do not have a building permit, we do not consider that new models cannot be built in the same way, since the law is filled with a series of illogicalities like that. relative distance from the cemetery. We also believe that this law should be completed and can be done through two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5871	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5872	Your Honor, Mr. President, given that the vote requires us to define ourselves on the urgency of the procedure, please explain ourselves. Since counterpart Salapic said on behalf of the HDZ Club that he opposes the adoption of all laws proposed in the emergency procedure, are those also related to the laws of the 16th and 18th, which are the very ones proposed by the HDZ Club? Because if the proposer gives up an emergency procedure, then we don't have to vote on it at all and we've settled it. So, I ask that it be determined that the 16th and 18th are not going through an emergency procedure because the motioner has given up his proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5873	Mr. Salapic, at least it's not the usual, please, because it's open to be precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5874	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I thank you for your concern and your explanation for what I said. I said I couldn't follow President Parliament when he was reading the bill, and now I've gone to the chairman's office and I said we don't object to the urgency of some laws. Thank you, President, for giving me the right to speak again. I explained to the President of the Parliament why I couldn't say what I mean, we didn't see. The HDZ Club doesn't object to the urgency of some laws, we'll vote when there's a vote, if you want I can read you the full list of laws if you're interested in it now? For our law, which we have proposed on behalf of the HDZ Club under the urgent procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rights of State officials, we are in favour of an emergency procedure. We are about the urgent procedure of all laws relating to EU agreements, and we are against the Law on Cemeteries, the Law on Food Activity and other laws that the president has read that I do not have to explain it to you as a concerned representative. But thank you for your concern. You'll probably be for our emergency procedure law, that's for sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5875	Thank you very much. In the end, we'll all see what you vote for. We're going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Please engage first and determine the quorum. 122 is the number shown to me from the gallery. So there's us here in the hall, according to our people's records, who collect manually, and here it says that 113 is present. You see how the chairman is now. Now, if we were to go check it out, then we'd get to this conclusion that he gave us upstairs. So someone didn't squeeze again. And I'll take it after today we vote electronically, that there are 113 of us here. And now we can't just say that. So we're going to vote. 1. Who is in favour of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Police Cooperation, P.Z. No. 56? Let's please get involved and vote for an emergency procedure. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes 115 for, 1 abstention, no one against the emergency procedure was included the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the police cooperation of the P.Z. No. 56. We move to a statement on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Law Centre in Southeast Europe P.Z. No. 64th? I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. I find that most of the vote 116 votes in favour, 1 abstention, no one against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Centre for Law Implementation in South East Europe P.Z. No. 64. 3. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of an Agreement establishing a functional air traffic block of Central Europe P.Z. No. 67? Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that most of the votes 114 votes in favour, 1 abstention, no one against the agenda by emergency procedure is included Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement establishing a functional air traffic block of Central Europe P.Z. No. 67. 4. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber P.Z. No. 57? I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes are 78 votes in favour of, 33 against, the abstentions are otherwise not respected, so I will no longer read them on the agenda under the urgent procedure included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber P.Z. No. 57. 5. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Agricultural Advisory Service Act P.Z. No. 61st? Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most 80 votes in favour, 37 against the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal of the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service of P.Z. No. 61. Six. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cemeteries of P.Z. No. 54th? I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. I find that the majority of votes are 80 votes in favour, 34 against the emergency procedure on the agenda included the Final Proposal of the Law on Cemeteries of P.Z. No. 54. Seven. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of P.Z. No. 62? I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. I find that the majority of votes of 86 votes in favour, 31 against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of P.Z. No. 62. 8. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the host activity of P.Z. No. 65? Please vote too, before we get involved. I find that most of the votes 83 for, 32 against, on the agenda, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Food Activity of P.Z. is included. No. 65. Nine. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency Act P.Z. No. 59th, and I'd also like to ask that we join and vote. I find that most votes, 81 votes for, 32 against the emergency procedure agenda, are included the Final Proposal for a Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, P.Z. No. 59. 10, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, P.Z. No. The 26th proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club? There could be a lot of votes here. Thank you. I find that most of the votes,... votes for, 25 against the agenda of the emergency procedure included Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, P.Z. No. The 26th proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. [[You don't understand.]] It's an interesting situation, you've seen. 11, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Labour Act, P.Z. No. 47, proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. ... /The noise in the hall./... The labour law that you suggested, by emergency procedure. Who's in? ... /The noise in the hall./... Please stop the vote, I see I need to explain it one more time. But I read it one more time. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending the Labour Act, P.Z. No. 47, proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. What now? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5876	Mr. President, after the vote is announced...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5877	Who declared the result of the vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5878	You've declared the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5879	No result has been declared, no, no. We broke up, it wasn't even marked, nothing because it didn't sound good on my part, so at least the individuals said, which I suggested at the vote. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you haven't seen Mr. Lesar properly this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5880	It's just that you can't hear yourself when you're talking...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5881	And listen, I don't know what to do, yell. I'll try to be a little louder. I need to get close to the obvious microphone, but look what it looks like right now. I'd like to ask the service to get these microphones in order to be heard better. Therefore, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Labour Act, P.Z. No. 47, proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. I find that most of the votes, 87 votes in favour, 24 against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included in the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, P.Z. No. 47, proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. Laws under points 6, 7 and 13 have also been proposed for the adoption of an emergency procedure. The final draft agenda but bear the label P.Z.E. and in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure on the application of the emergency procedure. In the final draft agenda, I also included a proposal to launch a trust issue for Željko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports. On the inclusion of this item in the agenda in accordance with Article 113. We don't vote on the rules of procedure. There was no written objection to the agenda I proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda was in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Any of the representatives have objections to points 1 and 2. The final draft agenda you have in front of you, which did not contain the draft agenda you received with the invitation to this session? There isn't. These are therefore a proposal to show confidence in the Master of Science Sinisha Hadosha Doncic for the duties of the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda, but I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it fully but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda that you have before you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 180 to 184. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session prior to the first item of the agenda. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5883	Mr. President... vote, I remind you, therefore, that the HDSSB Club... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5884	Wait a minute, wait a minute, are you, again, I apologize to you now, but let me ask you a question. I chair this session. Tell me, do you want to talk about the club stop again? Look, according to our Rules of Procedure, Article 223.b writes: The Chair will not approve a session of the Assembly of Representatives' Clubs if the request for a recess is submitted: a) before the agenda is established and the agenda changes, and we do not yet have the situation so that I cannot give you a break. But when we're done discussing the current clock, or when the current clock is over, then you'll be able to ask for it. Thank you very much. Just one notice. As of today's session, the display will include the names of MPs who have not only applied for parliamentary issues but also applications for discussion individually and in the name of clubs. It's a novelty I hope you can use. I don't know why you're proposing to Mr. Vinkovic to step forward for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5885	Mr President-in-Office, Article 223.b: The Chair of the Assembly will not approve for a session of the representatives' club if the request for a recess is submitted before the agenda or the changeover to the agenda. For reasons relating to the work of the working bodies of the Assembly and in relation to an act or statement by representatives outside the Parliament. So, our request for a break on behalf of the HDSSB Club is not relevant, and we believe that we have moved to the agenda of the current clock and you yourself said that when the debate ends in the current class, it is not about the debate but about questions and answers. Given that the issue involved in maintaining a memorial in Bleiburg and sponsorship of the Croatian Parliament over the event also requires a debate in the Assembly, not just a decision by the Presidency of the Assembly, I am looking on behalf of the HDSB Club for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5886	But I beg you again, you love yourself right out of the Rules of Procedure again. Now you've read it again. Please! You read again what I read. You can't ask for a break for the club before the debate and parliamentary issues are absorbed. You just can't. Look, you can't ask for it in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5887	No, no, I'm looking for an explanation of the Rules of Procedure Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5888	You can always do that. So I gave you the answer. You'll be looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5889	Mr. Caine, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5890	Thank you. Okay, you can ask for that. You understand that. Thank you very much. Okay. but in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5891	Please give me that opinion, call the board, because I believe that this decision of yours is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that you should have approved a break on behalf of the HDSSB Club and opened the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5892	I'd just like to ask Mr. Vinkovic if you'd really do it, if you could make a written call to the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5893	The Bureau of Parliament cannot make such a decision as you made yesterday not by consensus but by simple revote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5894	Please, we can't discuss this any more because you're not, you're not discussing it in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5895	And it's a shameful decision, a totally embarrassing decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5896	Thank you very much. So, we're done with the current morning. We'll continue to work, I'll tell you now as I read the item on the agenda, and that's a proposal to show Mr.sc's trust. Sinishi Hajdash Doncic for his duties as Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister at 3:15 p.m. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we go first as far as voting on the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I propose to supplement the agenda to the following points: 1st Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on the Common Transport Procedure of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Swiss Confederation relating to the Exchange of Letters and the Completion of the Convention of 20 May 1987 on the common transport procedure of the Treaty in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Community and the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway and the Swiss Confederation, which relate to the amendment and the completion of the Convention of 20 May 1987 on the common transit procedure of the Treaty in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Community and the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway and the Swiss Confederation, which relate to the amendment and the Joint Decision of 20 May 1987/79/EC. of 23 July 1997 1/2000. of 20 December 2000, 1/2001. of 17 June 2001, No. 2/2002. of 27 November 2002, No. 1/2005. of 17 June 2005, No. 2/2005, No. 3/2005. of 17 June 2005, No. 4/2005. of 15 August 2005, No. 1/2007. of 16 April 2007, No. 1/2008. of 16 June 2008 and No. 1/2009. of 31 July 2009 in the amendments to the Convention on a common transit procedure with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 69 2. Proposal for a Law attesting the Convention on the Simplification of formalities in trade in goods of a contract in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Community and the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Swiss Confederation relating to the amendment and addition of the Convention of 20 May 1987 on the simplification of formalities in trade in goods and the Decision of the Joint Committee. 1/89. of 3 May 1989, No. 2/95. of 26 October 2006 amending and supplementing the Convention on the simplification of formalities in trade in goods with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 73. 3. Proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-Montenegro Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA 2010 cross-border cooperation component, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 72. 4. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia-Serbia under the IPA 2010 cross-border cooperation component, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 74. 5. Proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia-Bosnia and Herzegovina under the 2010 cross-border cooperation component of the IPA Programme, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 75. 6th Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 70. 7th Proposal for a Law on Medical Aided Insemination, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 71. 8. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2011 – Summary, Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities. Nine. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality in 2011 – Summary, Advocate General for Gender Equality. Ten. Work report for 2010 of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, Carrier of the Railway Markets Regulatory Agency. 11. Work report for 2011 of the Personal Data Protection Agency, Carrier of the Personal Data Protection Agency. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal to adopt a single law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law? Here's Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, vice president of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The HDZ Representatives Club opposes an emergency procedure for draft law under number 6, meaning in amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act, etc. We suggest that the law goes in a regular procedure so that we can certainly ask the government in detail, but also consider here in the Croatian Parliament the reasons for the announced collection of electricity spoken of. We don't know how much, but we don't even know why. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5899	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, you spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, and I am informing you that article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which we were in opposition when we participated in the work and law-making, and as regards harmonisation with the legal property of the EU, we were always there to understand the urgency and I will read to you: "By an urgent procedure, laws are passed that comply with the EU regulation if the applicant so requests." Thank you very much. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Please determine the quorum. Attendance in the hall, please, from the gallery. Thank you very much. I find that there are 107 MPs present. Now I'm not going to read the whole line of text that probably nobody liked when you read it, you have it marked, I'm going to read it once and I'm going to say it. Who is marked P.Z. for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act. No. 69th? Please raise your hand. Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously, with 107 votes on the agenda, the final draft of the law is marked P.Z. No. 69. Who is to apply the emergency procedure marked P.Z. No. 73? Please raise your hand. Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. Here we have two new arrivals of a representative or a representative. I find that, unanimously, with 109 votes in the agenda, the final draft of the law is marked P.Z. No. 73. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law marked under P.Z. No. 72? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 110 votes in the agenda, the law under P.Z. is included in the emergency procedure. No. 72. Whom I am in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law is this short, so I will read about Confirmation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-Serbia cross-border cooperation programme under the 2010 IPA cross-border cooperation component, P.Z. No. 74th? Please, who's in? Against? More and more votes 107, 109, 110, now it's 111. So I find that, unanimously with 111 votes for the agenda by emergency procedure, this law has been incorporated under the regular number of P.Z. No. 74. Fifth, who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the framework of the 2010 IPA cross-border cooperation component of the IPA Programme, P.Z. for the adoption of the Law on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Cross-border Cooperation Programme of Croatia-BiH. No. 75th? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 111 votes for the agenda by emergency procedure, this final bill of law is marked P.Z. No. 75. We do not vote in accordance with paragraph 1 on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption. Article 161 Rules of Procedure. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? Here you go. Mr. Dragutin Lesar on behalf of his club?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5900	Yeah. Mr. President, thank you very much. Point 11 of the proposed amendments to the agenda is the 2010 Work Report of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. How is it possible, there's 11 on my paper? I don't know. I'm good at 11. How is it possible that a report from some state agency for 2010 will come before the Croatian Parliament in April 2012? I just don't want to believe it was in Parliament so you wouldn't be put on the agenda and last session. And I ask you to see if the Agency has not delivered the 2010 report to the Parliament within the deadline provided that we do not include it in the agenda. It's inadmissible behavior. Since I don't have a report in front of me and I can't check it now that they've sent it to the Parliament, I'm asking you to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5901	I'd like to answer your question, Mr. Agent Lesar. So your proposal, as you know, is this the only report that we put on the agenda and we want to put on the agenda for 2010 and that's because it wasn't discussed when it was time, and that was probably in the second half of last year. I don't want to get into the qualifications of that. I'm just saying it as a fact. Secondly, the data to be obtained by this agency in 2011 which you obviously want to say would be that it would be almost regrettable only half this year and we will not get that report before that report for 2011. That's why it's a good idea for us to be the one to be in 2010 anyway. That's the answer to your representative's question, then we'll be able to speak out when we vote. I was just obliged to give that explanation. Here you are, Mrs. Kosor, vice president of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5902	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what I wanted to ask on behalf of my club this exact same thing. Why so far this report if it has not really been included in the agenda of our meetings? Namely, if it was a backlog, then all these backlogs were to be placed on the agenda in time. I think it's something else. It's that we're not going to have anything to do because the government, as we know, has not sent a sufficient number of acts, a sufficient number of laws. The government is working slowly and ineffectively and that is why we are now putting some points on the agenda that are obviously long forgotten or standing in drawers. And I think that we should open a debate in the Croatian Parliament as well, because the government, I repeat, as I have done many times, corresponds to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5903	Thank you very much. I'd be happy to answer your question, too, Madam Vice President, and I'd like to make a suggestion. There's about 30 reports somewhere... Yeah, yeah, I'm just saying, you're telling me there's nothing to talk about, there's 30 reports for 2010 that you didn't put on the agenda, now that we're talking about it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't run well, but you know who ran it. We said we wouldn't go back in time, at least I'm trying not to come back. That's one thing. Secondly, the government's work, and don't be afraid of legal proposals will come in time, we'll have a lot of work to do, it's not just the draft law, it's the law. We have a lot to implement, and the government is first and foremost implementing the law, but it also proposes new laws, of course, according to the needs of practice and life in Croatia. So I just don't see the problem, and we'll see what time will bring. We'll vote on this, then, we'll get to the point. So I put the vote on the agenda, because there was only one remark, put a point on the 2010 Work Report of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, the applicant of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. Who's in favor of putting it on the agenda? Thank you. Against? I therefore find that 83 votes were to be included in the agenda, 6 against, and that is to say to include the 2010 work report of the Railway Market Regulation Agency, the applicant of the Railway Market Regulation Agency. The completion of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5904	We are delaying the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Effective Use of Energy in Direct Consumption until the committees are through, not discussing this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5905	And at the end of today's vote, I am obliged to inform you colleagues and colleagues of the proposed conclusions regarding the Annual Report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA from 1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011 with an update of the Report from 1 May 2011 to 31 December 2011 that we will vote after the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system delivers an opinion on the proposed conclusion. 2. The Committee on Information, Information and Media. And I congratulate you on the 1st of May International Labour Day. I would like to inform you that, with the 4th session, we continue on Thursday at 9.30 p.m. on Thursday at 9.30 p.m., so it is in line with representatives' clubs with the agenda point of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the effective use of energy in direct consumption, P.Z. No. 70. Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague and colleagues now going to the first addition of the agenda that I'm going to propose, and behind that we're going to go to the vote and note that we're going to have another debate about one more issue, but that when we're done adding to the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain on the fight against crime and on security issues, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 80, 1. Proposal for a Law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other forms of criminal offences, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. It's 79, 1. Proposal for a Act confirming the Protocol amending and supplementing the Security Supplement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 86, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 78, 1. Proposal for a Employment Encouragement Act, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Eighty-two, one. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 76, 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways d.o.o., with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 84, 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Electricity Market Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 2 / 1 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 81, 10, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Statistics, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 83, 11, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Act, First Reading, P.Z. No. 77, 12, Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Space Plan of Nature Park Vransko jezero, 13, Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peace mission in the Syrian Arab Republic, 14, Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts for 2011, 15, Proposal for a conclusion on support for the international initiative on the establishment of the 5th November World Day of the Roma language, Proposing all the clubs of the MPs, i.e. Parliament, 16, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Programme Council of the HRT, 17.a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media and b) Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of a part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Here you go, Madam Vice President, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5907	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The HDZ Club opposes all proposals for legislation to be passed in the emergency procedure. I would particularly like to highlight the adoption of the Employment Encouragement Act, the Law supplementing the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways, because, among other things, the Government broke up social dialogue. We heard today that five union centres did not want to come to the meeting of the Economic and Social Council because of some previous government decisions, such as decisions on gas collection, electricity, etc. which were taken without consultation with the social partners, so without the decisions of the Economic and Social Council. And that is why we strongly oppose these laws being passed in an emergency procedure because, of course, they are the fates of others and the people who are employed in the Croatian Railways. But also, for example, I am extracting another example, that the Arms Act, or its changes, are going into emergency procedure. So, of course, we all know that this is not the case again, although it is difficult to live hard because of government decisions, but we still need to give representatives to discuss, but also to the social partners of the Government of Croatia to give their opinion on these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5908	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5909	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, we are also opposed to the adoption of laws by emergency procedure precisely because here for the third month in a row, a quality and good debate has been disabled, so that we can exclude the laws of P.Z. No. 78 and P.Z. No. 82. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5910	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5911	Your Honor, Mr. President. The HDSSB advocates club also opposes continuing the practice of putting legislative proposals into an emergency procedure, especially where there is no reason to do so. Not to mention, in particular, each of these articles now, but here is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons is put in an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law supplementing the Electricity Market Act in an emergency procedure, and in particular the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the division of the Croatian Railway Company. There's no reason, there can't be quality solutions through emergency procedures. We've already made sure of that many times in the case of the last government. Continue with equal bad practice even I'd say you'd go one step further.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5912	Thank you very much. But before I give my word to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Neven Mimica, I will read Article 161(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which says: by an urgent procedure, laws are passed which comply with EU rules if requested by the applicant. One of these laws is also the law concerning the amendment of the Arms Act. Mr. Vice President, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5913	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The government remains on the proposal to keep these 10 draft laws, which it has proposed to carry out an emergency procedure in the first and second readings, in order to remain in this way for the Croatian Parliament to accept it. Of the 10 laws of the law, the confirmation, i.e. ratification of an agreement which, according to its content, takes place in the nature of its content into an emergency procedure. We are surprised that someone may be against an emergency procedure in determining the incentive employment measures in the situation in which we are. We believe that such a law truly deserves it, and it is necessary to bring it into urgent action. We cannot accept the claim that the government has interrupted the social dialogue and the work of the Economic and Social Council because the interruption did not come from the government but from the unions and this cannot be a reason to oppose the emergency procedure. The Arms Act, the Parliament in the previous session, carried out the first reading of this law, for procedural business reasons cannot continue with only the second reading in the new assembly, so we proposed an emergency procedure taking into account the previous debate on this law in the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament. And everything else, of these 10, remains this law that is in line with the EU, hence, the urgent procedure requested by the Government is adopted here and by the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, for all 10 laws, we remain in emergency proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5914	Thank you very much. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. First of all, I'd like to ask that the quorum be determined. There's 112 of us in the hall. Thank you very much. I ask who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain on the fight against crime and on security issues, P.Z. No. 80. Who's against it? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 90 votes on the agenda, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Spain in the fight against crime and on security issues has been included, P.Z. No. 80. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illegal trafficking, intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other forms of crime, P.Z. No. 79th? Thank you. Against? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes on the agenda, the final draft law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other forms of crime, P.Z. No. 79. For the purposes of applying the emergency procedure for the adoption of a Protocol Confirmation Act amending and supplementing the Security Supplement to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation, P.Z. No. 86? Against? I find that it is unanimous on the agenda in an emergency procedure with 112 votes for the entry of the Final Proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act amending and supplementing the Security Supplement to the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Agreement on Atomic Data Cooperation, P.Z. No. 86. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health insurance of P.Z. No. 78th? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes with 94 votes in favour and 9 against on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 78. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Employment Encouragement Act, P.Z. No. 82? Who's against it? I find that most of the votes, 88 votes in favour, 3 against the emergency procedure, are included in the Final Proposal of the Employment Encouragement Act, P.Z. No. 82. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, P.Z. No. 76? Against? I find that most votes are on the agenda by emergency procedure with 81 votes for, 31 against, included Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, P.Z. No. 76. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act supplementing the Law on the division of the company HZ - Hrvatska zelice d.o.o., P.Z. No. 84? Against? I find that the majority of votes are 80 votes in favour, 32 against the emergency procedure, the Final Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the division of the company HZ-Croatian Railways d.o.o., P.Z. No. 84. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on the electricity market, P.Z. No. Eighty-five? Against? I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 32 against the emergency procedure on the agenda, are included the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Electricity Market Act, P.Z. No. 85. On the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Weapons, P.Z.E. No. 81st and Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Statistics, P.Z.E. No. In 83rd, we do not vote in accordance with Article 161(1)(a) of this Regulation. Rules of Procedure. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of other proposed points which, for example, are not laws but are motions for decisions, what I read? You've got it in front of you. Thank you. The agenda is complete. Before we finish, I have a proposition. On Wednesday, 9th of May of this year, at 11.00 in Topusko, the Ceremony of the 67th anniversary of the victory over the Fascism of the Day of Europe and the Liberation of the Croatian Homeland and the capital of Zagreb and the 68th anniversary of the 3rd session of ZAVNOH in Topusco under the auspices of the Croatian Assembly, organized by the Association of Antifascist Fighters and Antifascists from the Sisak-Moslavina County. I believe that you have received invitations, but since Wednesday and the meeting of the Croatian Parliament I propose that representatives of the club representatives and myself as president of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. representative of the Parliament, attend the Ceremony Academy. So we can work here and make decisions, and in an appropriate way mark the anniversary. Do you agree with that? ... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We're done working this week, and we're continuing on 9 May at 9.30 p.m. with a agenda proposal for a Law on Medical Aided Insemination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5917	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As with so many times so far, the law on the agenda of the Croatian Democratic Community is opposed to an emergency procedure. I can only make the same arguments again. There's a feeling that we're living in a state of emergency. We ask again that the Government remove the emergency procedure so that we can discuss it in peace, but so that the public, and especially the professional public, have time to give their opinion. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5918	I don't know Mrs. Vice President now except extremely, and I don't see her here. What I read was that the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament goes into two readings. Wait a minute, please. Now I'm talking to her. Two readings that didn't go very, very long in two readings. It didn't work out at all, there was always one reading with all these changes and additions from 2000 to here. It may have included the Government from 2000 to 20003, i.e. Assembly from 2000 to 2003 I didn't check it out now, but it's possible, but we're not going now. We have two legal proposals that I've read, and that's this first number of P.Z.E. the number 89, 88, as regards harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. I read that so that there would be no confusion, that I would simply not give any material to anyone, nor to you out of opposition, which is that we do not plead to these laws because there is a business provision to go by emergency procedure. And I don't actually see where it is here, I don't actually see any law that goes by emergency procedure without being business-based in a way that doesn't even have it here as such. So I'm sorry that you've intervened now because you had no reason to. Then let me know if it's not true. But, well, I mean, this is a new Parliament, a new assembly of Parliaments, so we're all adapting. Once again I ask if anyone has any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, you have the word the second time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5919	Thank you, Comrade Silvano. Mr. President, just one clarification on item 4 of the agenda whether there was a printing error or indeed a report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2005 to 2008. Now we're all in 2012, and we're getting a report from 2005 to 2008. Isn't that possible by 2011, 2012?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5920	It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5921	It's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5922	But there's probably a reason why you can't handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5923	It probably does, but this is the ideal topic for the debate between 2005 and 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5924	Listen, we'll see when
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5925	But can we get it back from '95? By 2005? ... Okay, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5926	Mr. Representative, thank you very much. The agenda has been completed. Here we have received the completion of the work, but please, before we finish work this week, a notice, a notice from me as president of the Croatian Parliament, regarding our work, concerns the work of the working bodies of the board. The President of the Parliament is coordinating the work of the working bodies. I sent a letter last month to all working bodies presidents where I asked for the basis of the Rules of Procedure to be convened by working bodies to be held on Mondays and Tuesdays so that the legislative process could take place now that we have stopped working intensively and massively on harmonising Croatia's legal proposals with the acquis, that committees can work organised and systematically because it is very important that after the preparation of quality and work done on the working bodies, the law can be discussed and passed at the plenary session and be more quality of these laws. I saw it, I saw it, I saw it on the boards when I came in here that one part of the board president was holding it, the other one wasn't. I would pray that from now on there are, the Professional Service is working here and now, all the secretary committees are at their jobs, that the presidents of the working bodies are calling the committees for Monday and Tuesday because the points that we have now added the reason to do so. We continue our work on Wednesday 16 May at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, P.Z. No. 76. Goodbye, I'll see you. Thank you for your cooperation this week, and I'll see you on Wednesday or before the boards.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5929	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I object to the urgency of the procedure relating to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. I have repeated many times on behalf of the club why we are opposed to an emergency procedure, so this is an extremely important law and I suggest that the government withdraws the urgency of adoption and that we go to regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5930	Thank you very much. No one else is answering. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. I'd like to ask you first to determine the quorum. Thank you very much. I find that we have 108 votes in the hall. We're moving on to a plea. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, P.Z. No. 91? Please raise your hands. Who's against it? Thank you. I find that most of the votes, with 91 votes for and 17 against on the agenda, are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, P.Z. No. 91. Furthermore, who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning part of a multi-user nuclear safety and radiation protection programme under the 2011 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (decentralised management, P.Z. No. 90. Please, who's in? Against? I find that this final proposal to be included in the agenda by emergency procedure has been adopted unanimously with 108 votes. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. I'm confirming that the agenda has been completed. As usual, respected colleagues and colleagues, we move to the final part of the work during the week in a way that we go first to the addition of the agenda and then to a vote that won't be long because there are several points just. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2011, 2. Proposal for a decision on the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament and 3. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. You've received the motions. Any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed points? There isn't. Then I find that the agenda has been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5933	Dear Mr. President, the HDZ Club opposes, and the reasons we have already been instructed earlier in these urgent procedures, that the law by which the stock companies are being taken over, I must point out that on some committees we have not yet seen or discussed, we are opposed to such a serious topic being proposed to be adopted by an urgent procedure at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5934	Thank you. On behalf of the proposer of the legislative proposal, Ms. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5935	We do not give up the emergency procedure since it is important economic reasons why this law should be adopted by emergency procedure. However, it should have been brought before, because this is not about taking over in the classical sense of the word of companies but when it comes to the possession of 25%+1 shares in other ways, which is when local self-government units come in such a way because of settlements in such a position, or in the future when the settlements will result in the situation that the creditors will cross the 25%+1 section by entering the company.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5936	Thank you. We heard the explanation of the applicant's representative, i.e. the representatives. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Let's first determine the quorum. Mr. Maric, I ask you to let us know how many of us are present here with a representative and a representative. 120. Please state by raising our hands who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, P.Z. No. 93. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I find that most of the votes, with 81 votes in favour, 40 against the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, P.Z. No. 93. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? Thank you. The agenda has been completed. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the work of the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic and his associates. Let me start by supplementing the agenda. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the next addition with 7 new points. 1. Proposal to show confidence to Mihael Zmajlovic to perform his duties as Minister of Environmental and Nature Protection, 1. Proposal for a Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, first reading, P.Z. No. 95, 1. Proposal for a Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representatives of collective bargaining activities, first reading, P.Z. No. 96, 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Property Management, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 97, 1. Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2011, 1. Report by the Commission on the conflict of interest for 2011, 1. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. For the adoption of an emergency procedure of these 7 points, one law has been proposed and this is the proposal for a law amending the law on state property management with the final draft law, P.Z. No. 97. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed law? We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. I'd like to ask if I can determine the quorum first, we'll vote manually. 87. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending the law on state property management, P.Z. No. 97. Can you raise your hand, please? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I find that most votes with 81 votes in favour and 7 against on the agenda according to the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Property Management. Any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other six points proposed? There isn't. The agenda has been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5939	I thank you, Mr. President. So I am speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, we are opposed to an emergency procedure for points 2, 3 and 4 of in particular points 3 and 4 because according to yesterday's statement by the Minister of Justice, he said that these legislative proposals did not agree that the opinion of the European Commission did not come, since the laws that were part of the negotiations that were currently under monitoring, we believe that not only is it not good to adopt them by an emergency procedure but we believe that they are not at all mature to be put on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5940	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want it? Proposer take the word? Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Neven Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5941	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The Government remains on the proposal that all the proposed laws proposed under the emergency procedure be retained in that status in order to carry out an emergency procedure in relation to the opposition to this emergency procedure in respect of enforcement laws. You all know that there is a delay in the application of the Law on Public Executors. These laws, which would otherwise expire on 15 July, propose an extension to 15 October, and, in the meantime, will propose an appropriate solution to the enforcement system in Croatia, depending on consultations with the EU authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5942	Thank you very much. There's no more discussion about you and the government's representative. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Let's first determine the quorum. 128, thank you. Let's take it in a row. Who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act attesting the Agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the multiannual financing agreement 2007-2010,P.Z. No. 102? Who's against it? Thank you. I find that, unanimously, this final draft of the law has been included in the agenda according to an emergency procedure. Keep going. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman, P.Z. No. 99? Who's against it? Thank you. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 49 against, by emergency procedure, are included in the agenda, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Attorney General, P.Z. No. 99. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Implementing Law? Against? I find that most of the votes, 80 votes in favour, 48 against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included in the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Implementing Law, P.Z. No. 101. And fourthly, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Public Executors, P.Z. No. 100? Against? Thank you. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes for, 47 against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Executives, P.Z. No. 100. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on HRT? There isn't. I'm confirming that the agenda has been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5943	Good morning and good day, dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Meeting of the Croatian Parliament, you have a consolidated agenda and we are going in on the agenda. Dear Representative Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5944	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Two days ago, on 18 June, I addressed the President of the Croatian Parliament in writing, protesting the fact that no amendments and additions to the Law on HRT, which was sent to the procedure on 10 April this year, and this session began on 18 April. We have a situation where the government has referred its draft law to the procedure on June 14th, that the Parliament has put its proposal as an addition to the agenda on June 15th, and we are already discussing it on June 20th. Since both the Government's proposal and our bill apply to the same subject, the same law, about similar content, and one and the other in the first reading, we think it would be extremely good for our bill to be included in the agenda today and immediately and to have a united debate on both proposals. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament there is such a possibility, I ask that our bill be placed on the agenda of this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5945	Dear Representative Lesar, were you in the assembly when we determined the agenda of the one we have today? You were. It was logical then to ask the President of Parliament and the Parliament to take your remarks and your proposal into account. Now we have a fixed agenda and please discuss the agenda and decide on the agenda. This is in accordance with Article 204 of the current Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5946	... Therefore, in accordance with Article 223a of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, I am asking for 10 minutes of rest so that the club can agree on further participation in the debate. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5947	Thank you very much. Who else is looking? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5948	The HDSSB Club is looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5949	Thank you very much. Also the HDZ club. Anyone else? I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. We'll continue at 9.45. Thank you very much. We are done with the break, and I suggest we hear the reasons of the Croatian Labour Club and the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5951	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll answer the question the vice president asked me first. On 18 April when this session began and the agenda was established, the half-formal condition set out in Article 203 was not met either. The Rules of Procedure, which is 30 days to require the inclusion of our bill in the agenda. On Friday, when the agenda was complemented by the government's proposal, the truth is, I was not familiar with the fact that after 66 days, not only was our proposal not included in the agenda, but the president of the House of Law did not refer the proposal to the procedure, he did not deliver it to the parliamentary deputies. That's why, two days ago, in writing, I asked the President of the Parliament to refer our bill to the procedure. The answer I didn't get any, the only place to react was when Parliament's session continues. What are we doing, Mr. Vice President? We have an extended session of the Parliament since 18 April. We will probably introduce a practice that during one calendar year we have only two meetings, from 15 January to 15 September and from 15 December to 15 December, to avoid current mornings, to spare members of the government and prime ministers of unpleasant issues, but even more importantly, in order to avoid any changes to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to find a way, to retain the way of obstructing opposition proposals, because according to the existing Rules of Procedure, and this situation is evidence to you, the opposition proposals are not sent to the procedure after two or more months since they have been handed over, are not included in the agenda because they abuse and benefit from the Rules of Procedure's provisions 30 days before the meeting is convened. So if we want to get something on the agenda on January 15th, we have to propose a bill, submit to the procedure no later than December 15th, because we will only have two sessions. So when something opposition is included in the agenda then the debate doesn't open for months, and then the government doesn't give an opinion, and then it's a parliamentary majority excuse for not opening the debate, so when the government and that opinion waits for a few months again. Or another way of applying, on the same subject, on the same law, the government proposes its law, the opposition is not included in the agenda, the government is adopted and after the government's proposal is adopted in the Assembly then put on the agenda an opposition proposal. From whom did you take on such a practice, whose practice do you continue? After eight years when HDZ did the same thing and you were dissatisfied with it, in best manners you continue the same behavior. What's the difference between the former and the present? Last Friday, we heard that in some appointments, the SDP elections only agreed with the HDZ club on behalf of the entire opposition about, it was unless I was wrong about the Anti-Corruption National Council. Well, then, in public, we won't allow a bill to be proposed because we're only calling two sessions a year. There will be no more than two current mornings and forget any hope that the opposition bill will be included on the agenda in an appropriate, civilized, reasonable period. I've asked three questions so far, no one has ever answered why the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has not been formed. Six months passed by a new assembly of the Parliament, we barely appointed outside members of the Anti-Corruption National Council, no meetings of that council, no committee to prevent conflicts of interest. And finally, I ask, which meant the prime minister's invitation at the beginning, to a constitutional session to call on the opposition to an agreement, to a consensus on important national issues. Is HRT position, status, state, management of national interest? Yeah. And what the ruling majority, boycotts the opposition proposal on the same law not only to put on the agenda, nor is it allowed in the procedure so that two different concepts could be dealt with, to solve the same problem because we have located the same problem, we have offered two different solutions. This must not be debated because the business opportunities of boycotting such an approach are used. So much for the honesty of calling the ruling coalition in opposition that they're willing to negotiate with us the most important things. I know, the parliamentary majority can do anything. You're proving muscle and beyond, but there's no difference between these eight years of parliamentary practice and these six months if you keep going like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5952	Thank you very much. Next for discussion on behalf of the HDSSB club and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5953	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. There is no one from the Government at this time, but here in view of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, we support this proposal to bring together this public debate on amendments to the Law on HRT, regardless of whether the Government has had time in these few months, so from 10.4. to show here that it cares about the ruling majority and the opinion of opposition parties, and given that we are currently discussing amendments to the Law on HRT. Otherwise, this current law, which is in the parliamentary procedure, was sent to the Croatian Parliament by the Croatian Government, and it is not surprising because here are several laws that show that the laws that the Croatian government is referring to are made ad hoc, that they are neither a goal nor a strategy. However, this law has, these amendments to the law have a clear objective. So if we adopt this law, if the ruling majority raises hands for the law, probably more Croatian citizens will not be able to see any parliamentary representative here in the Croatian Parliament, a parliamentary representative who has a different opinion from the Croatian government because this law makes Croatian TV and Croatian Radio and Croatian Radio become party television, TV to the Kukuriku coalition at the moment. After the election, television will probably become television for those who come to power and such changes and this appointment of the director of Croatian television and editors-in-chief who will be re-elected by political likeness not by their expertise this reminds us of a time the start of television here in Croatia, the beginnings of the media in Croatia but also in the world. It's a pattern he came up with back there in '33. One Minister of Propaganda, fortunately defeated by the world's Nazi regime, Goebbels. So this is an extremely bad law, a law not supported by the European Commission
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5954	Col. Vinković
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5955	I'm talking right now, I'm talking, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5956	But can I tell you something? Just give me a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5957	Come on, stop my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5958	What will you say when you discuss the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5959	Something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5960	Okay. But now you're talking about the law, so please speak in some order.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5961	I'm just trying to get here from this pay phone on behalf of the HDSSB Club to warn myself that this discussion of two laws is coming together, no matter what the Government didn't give an opinion, and if I wanted to make a joke, I think in the future and the Central Journal will look the way it was in that system before. This time there will be no friend Mika Špiljak but will be a comrade Milanovic, and then as in those humorous BBC shows, we will have that smooth clap. So he's going to cut the tape somewhere, set up a cornerstone, and nobody, no opposition party on that "cateral spirit," as Vrdoljak called it, will have a chance to talk because it's obviously the Minister of Propaganda, the future director of HRT won't be at all pleased to place either in the Central Diaries or in any show like the "Open" type, etc. So it is likely that Hloverka Novak-Srzic will invite only members of the Kukuri coalition on the "Open" show, and then they will probably argue on that show because, as far as I hear it, most parties are not for such an extremely bad law. So, I'm just gonna say that here's freedom to the party and the rainbow colors, but that this law, that specifically applies to you from the SDP, is not to be supported because what will happen when the next elections come, then you will raise your hand against a law like this which
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5962	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5963	Suffocation of democracy and asphyxiation of Croatian broadcasting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5964	Thank you very much. Next, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Correction of the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5965	Calling this law to Goebbels is like saying that HDSSB is one racist party. Neither the law is goebbelities nor anyone for the HDSSB can say it's a racist party. For individuals it's another thing, for a collective it's simply such a single diction is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5966	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5967	Article 214, but I have to admit that I didn't understand at all what my colleague Caine was going to say... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5968	Thank you very much. Then you didn't even understand the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5969	Neither was it a correction to an incorrect quote nor did I mention racism and racist law Well, Goebbels was the Minister of Propaganda. [[Goebbelsa, Goebbelsa.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5970	Please, please! Fellow MPs, dear colleague, please hold the parliamentary debate in the framework of the Rules of Procedure. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Please allow your colleague Vinkovic to work in the atmosphere of tolerance according to the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You said yourself you didn't understand, so then you don't even know what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. Thank you very much. ... Please, my colleague! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please colleagues, please allow us to work. The next club that wants to speak on the agenda is the HDZ club and, on behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5971	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We in HDZ support this proposal from our colleagues from the Labour Party. I'll just remind you that this, as we've already called it, ad hoc law, is being passed without a media strategy and no other package of laws relating to the media, the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on the Media, the Law on the HINA. What about Vesnik? Shouldn't that have been an urgent debate in this House when we called and warned about the collapse of her cultural brand? Let us remember the adoption and compliance of the current Law on HRT, the procedure lasted 5 months because it wanted to bring a better document and we all wanted to agree on it. What's the big deal? Why can't it be included in this session when we don't already have a strategy, clear indicators or a clear goal that these amendments to the law want to go beyond the fact that a full political control of the ruling coalition is created on HRT? Then why, if so, if it is already such an intensity of the ruling coalition to create a certain one-in-one in all Croatian governing bodies, why do we not at least have the possibility of some kind of parallel proposal, so perhaps in a concrete debate in this first reading of a freak and more quality suggestion? I think we should all keep that in mind, this law isn't something that's been passed in a year, two, three. You can see that the European Commission's comments are also very warning that this law should be passed with special sensitivity. Remember that law, the applicable law that was adopted unanimously in this high house, because it reflected the views of all the clubs of MPs, not because it had the intensity of creating, creating the ruling domination in all the bodies of Croatian radiotelevision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5972	Thank you, too. Once again, the proposal cannot be included in the agenda due to the provisions of the current Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that provision of Article 204(3), not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, from the Office of the President of the Republic, the president of the assembly informed us that the letter of the respected representative Lesar had not arrived at the office. Since we are, please, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5973	You said the letter I sent to the president of the assembly didn't come to the President's office, did I understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5974	Yes, and what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5975	So is it possible that from the service log to the president's office the letter doesn't come for two days, please? Is this my failure or my failure to serve the assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5976	Mr. Representative, I gave... I'm... Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5977	And secondly, you are wrong that there are no business conditions, there is no political will and courage to put into the agenda. So say it, don't say it to the Rules of Procedure. You don't have the guts, you don't have the guts to put it on the agenda. Admit you don't have political guts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5978	Your Honor, we've finished the debate. Thank you very much. Let us work. Thank you very much. I've given the notice, we're going back to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5979	Here you go, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5980	Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5981	Please, colleagues and colleagues, we will begin our work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5982	Mr. Vice President, on 3.05.2012, it means more than 45 days ago, I asked one representative question about the future of the Oilies. I am not going to quote that set of questions now, whether the exact statements of the first vice president of the Republic of Croatia, Radiir Cacic, who has associated with the specific problems of the Oilics, etc. I didn't get the answer. It's been 45 days. But now I'm reading that an oil man who doesn't have God knows how much work he's taking on May 3rd, and the Oily Sailing Nephew is usually the co-owner of the Oilies to get further into the Oily. The oil used to help, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5983	Comrade Cain, I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5984	I'd just like to know when the answer to that question will arrive, and it's been almost 50 days, almost 2 months, high-a-vis and Istrian, Rijeka, etc., public. If the project succeeds, the monument needs to be erected, I tell the actors of the privatisation, and if not May 3rd, it can also pull the Uljanik. When the answer comes, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5985	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5986	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I now propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the protocol between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic with the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property taxes, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 107. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 106. 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the law on employment mediation and rights during unemployment, first reading, P.Z. No. 105. 4. Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 104. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 103. And six. Final draft law amending and supplementing the general tax law, second reading, P.Z. No. 77. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I'm asking if any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in law-making. There is. First, a colleague named Branko Vuksic came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5987	Mr. Vice-President, there is still bad practice in the Croatian Parliament, again we have three laws that are passed by emergency procedure, although there are no specific reasons for this by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so I protest on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – the party of work and ask that the law under item number two not to read the whole title number four and number five included without an emergency procedure on the agenda in the regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5988	Thank you very much. The word was also reported by the honourable representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We also noticed that of the 6 laws not 3 but 4 are in an emergency procedure with the fact that 3 can be accepted, but we cannot accept that the draft law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks with the final draft of the law is adopted. That's point four. I would like to remind my colleagues that the law has ceased to apply with the decision of the Croatian Parliament before the end of the term of office of the last government. After that you quickly went to bring it without two readings, again by emergency procedure even though you knew that it was contrary to European rules. Now, after only a few months, you'll re-negotiate the law and re-emerge in an emergency procedure. If you had brought it in two readings today, we probably wouldn't have had to cancel it and we don't think that you're simply acting both evasive and unprofessionally and undemocraticly, and that's why the HDZ Representatives Club is not going to accept that fourth, fourth point of emergency procedure this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5990	Thank you very much. We're going to vote on urgency. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5991	... Article 214 [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Col. Djurovic did not talk about what was being said here. So I didn't talk about how the HDZ Club will behave and how it will vote on the subject, I was already talking about the procedure. So don't prejudge what HDZ's position will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5992	As a matter of fact, the Rules of Procedure have not been broken at all. A colleague, Djurovic, spoke on the subject, spoke about why he opposed the urgency of the procedure. That's exactly what we asked him. But we're going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Please establish the quorum. We've got 115 MPs in the hall, we've got quorum, we can make right decisions. So I ask, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic with the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property taxes, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 107? Who's against it? I find that, unanimously with 115 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic, with the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes and on property in the agenda, is included in the Final Proposal, P.Z. No. 107. I ask, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.106? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes with 108 votes in favour and 7 against on the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, P.Z. No.106. Who is the first and second reading, P.Z. for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading. No.104? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes with 80 votes in favour and 35 against on the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, P.Z. No. 104. Who has remained motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, with final bill of law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 103? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 108 votes in favour and 7 against the agenda by emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, P.Z. No. 103. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed laws? If not, then I'd like to confirm that the agenda has been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5993	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, respected MPs and MPs. Meeting of the Croatian Parliament, we continue to work. I see one hand before anything in the air, let's hear what's going on. Dear representative Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, I ask for 10 minutes of rest so that the club of representatives can consult and decide on the continuation of the work and this session today, and about the procedure of the proposal and the procedure for the appointment of the governor of the Croatian National Bank, and they know about it only last night we received late.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5995	Excuse me, Your Honor, what is this about today's agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5996	The procedure and procedure of the Committee's work on selection and appointment and procedure which must follow in this House, Mr Vice-President. And according to Article 223a, I have the right to seek a break regardless of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5997	Okay. I'll give you a break. I'm setting a break. Is there anyone else? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5998	In connection with the same problems and the same procedural errors of the HDSSB club, it also requires a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u5999	Okay. Is there anyone else? There isn't. I'm setting a 10-minute break. I'll see you at 9.43. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6001	The President of the Parliament has transferred to you the powers belonging to the President of the Parliament and therefore I have asked for a break requiring or in order to draw attention to the fact that by working on the Committee for Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, and one of the important topics on the agenda of this Parliament must appear clearly until 7 July, which is the appointment of the Governor of the Croatian National Bank. The procedure so far has been at the expense of the opposition, questionable and strange to me. At yesterday's session following a formal meeting of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, the Committee President announced a new session Tuesday to set out a proposal for a candidate for governor of the CNB, noting that five or six club representatives had already submitted applications. Since, indeed, the Croatian Labour Labour Party club was not aware that any procedure had been initiated at all, I personally asked the chairman of the Committee on the basis of which some clubs gave candidates, and the Committee did not initiate any procedure, and note that according to the Law on the CNB, the Committee on Selection and Designation, together with the opinion of the Committee on Finance, proposes the appointment of the Governors. And interestingly, after my intervention of additional checks yesterday about 16 hours at the club of representatives comes a memo from the board that was antidated with the day before, on June 27th in which he writes blah, blah, blah, blah, blah and that the board asks the clubs to do so as quickly as possible, I haven't heard it yet, as soon as possible, deliver the candidate's proposal. What is the deadline, which is the date, which is the time until the representatives clubs have the right to submit their proposals. And secondly, the appointment of governor of the CNB is a very important thing. Is it possible that we will have a procedure reduced to two, three days, that the ruling representatives' clubs already propose a candidate without any formal procedure, without any talks and arrangements that should be attached in the application proposal, just the name and last name on the paper list? And more importantly, whether the Board of Elections and Appointings and the Committee on Finance will have an interview with candidates before the proposal is set. Whether or not the candidates will be invited to the plenary session and the debate will be held here. Today is Friday, the plan of the ruling is to establish the proposal on Tuesday, and we need to deliver our bids as quickly as possible, only after we have asked the committee to allow us to participate equally in the process. I am reading the Law on the CNB and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly so that no one has the right to abuse the fact that there is a majority in any working body and so on in the Committee on Selection and Designation and that all representatives and all clubs must be in the same position in opening proceedings. It was a good practice to negotiate such important matters on the board, between authorities and opposition or inter-party agreement, inter-club agreement in the Parliament on procedures, timing, time, manner and all. The other option is to make it clear and loud that the governor has already been appointed, and we will implement the pro-form procedure and vote the governor. For one of those two options, you have to define yourself. Such a relationship with the opposition, such as abandoning any conversation and even on working bodies that opposition representatives have information, clubs can participate, can be equal, is no longer acceptable. It was once already done around the election and appointment of members of the Anti-Corruption National Council. Then we said let it be the last time, don't do it anymore. It's been 10 days, it repeats the same thing. I expected from a government that calls itself a democratically different relationship towards opposition MPs and clubs, you haven't changed anything about it and you use the force of the majority and that strong majority in parliament. But let it be made clear to you, and loudly, we will decide everything. We will not ask you anything, nor will your attitudes or opinions matter at all. We've already appointed the governor, so say it in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6002	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6003	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Vice President, yes, okay. [[Leko: Vice President enough.]] Namely, Mr. Lesar, I did not use the instrument of correction that was left for me, but you and I know as well as the entire Croatian public, and through the constant bombing and throwing of media bombs like Bosko Buha and throwing away constantly these ruling, who will be the future governor of the CNB. First we found out by a test balloon or a bomb as Governor Rohatinski was removed, so by phone conversation. After that, almost the next day was appointed about a month ago and a new governor, I will not speak of names at all, nor is it necessary because we all know and the public knows. That one kind of thing I'd say is defamation or unenlightened absoluteism, if we could look a little bit better at what it looks like, that's downplayed by this procedure that you've convinced the opposition and the opposition clubs have two types, one's big and the other one's a little smaller. So that demeaning, that unencumbered absoluteism. The great one came from those media inscriptions and words we heard from all the media and electronic and written who would be the future governor and how the former governor had been removed and the term of office ended on July 7th. And an interesting date, good thing it's not the Fourth of July, is it? So that's the so-called. The great absoluteism of executive power. Others are hiding here among us in the assembly benches and in relation to our colleagues, so the chairman of the board, according to the other members of the committee representing the club representatives of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Therefore, colleagues who are in the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs who originate with the opposition did not know that the ruling six-member club had already proposed its candidate for governor of the National Bank, which is clearly a very important place and function in connection with, in particular, financial and monetary policies, fiscal and monetary policies of a state. One thing to say is the most important place. The fourth pillar of almost government would be said to be after the executive, judicial, judicial then that banking CNB is the fourth pillar in fact the government in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, one downsizing of non-rule board members has thus been demonstrated that the chairman of the board has already delivered the SDP, HNS, IDS, HSU, National Minority Representatives' Club and the SDSS Club. That's why we asked for this break. The conclusions on this should be drawn by each and every one of us and the lessons, and here we have the weekend so that the other clubs, I guess, by Tuesday 7 July, when the term expires to the former governor, and when there should be a new meeting of the delivery committee in this short, short time, as it says in haste, I guess they'll be very quick to submit the proposals of the candidates on Sunday. And yet, in fact, you do not know what the written proposal, résumé, or what should it contain? Or will there be an interview of candidates before the Board of Elections and Appointers? In fact, there is nothing written about this procedure, nothing is said about this procedure, nor is there any way that these candidates will present themselves, their programme, and what they think they are doing as governors of a future governor of the National Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6004	Thank you very much, Your Honor. For the sake of the Croatian public, as well as other respected colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, I would just like to say to the Croatian Parliament the Law on the Croatian National Bank has been published and acts for many years and I assure you in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public that the election procedure of the governor of the Croatian Vice Governor and the Council, therefore everything regulated by the law, will be fully respected by the law and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, nothing new will be added or subtracted from the applicable rules. And now based on the article... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If we have a quorum, let's go check it out. We'll wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6007	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here again on behalf of the HDZ Club we urge you to stop practicing that the vast majority of the laws are passed by emergency procedure, and this time from 15 proposed legislative proposals, there are nine of them by emergency procedure. We believe that this is not good, so that we do not contribute to strengthening this Parliament or democratic culture in the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday we had a colleague, Mondekar, president of the Committee. We had consultants who presented to us the work on the Law on Impact Assessments of Regulations and interpreted how in the Member States of the European Union the law-making process is going on, how before the law even enters the parliamentary procedure, it should be prepared, how public debate should be conducted, how it usually takes several months, and we continue in the Croatian Assembly in old practice with the adoption of emergency laws. I ask you that the situation is not in the country of crisis, that is, there is an economic crisis but it is not alarming, we do not have a war situation, we do not have to pass so many laws according to emergency procedures. Against all nine proposed laws by emergency procedure. [[Intruder Leko: Can you suggest against which?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6008	Thank you very much. I appreciate your progress in democratic procedures. And now we're going to vote on the proposal, and then we're going to do it all the way it was. Right? What? Please state who is in favour of applying the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of the structural instruments of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 119. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes in the agenda were included 89 for and 26 against the emergency procedure. Thank you very much. Who is to make the final draft law establishing an institutional framework for the use of the structural instruments of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. The 119th grade by emergency procedure? I'm asking you to raise your hand and let us know who's in. 120, sorry. Excuse me. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find 88 MPs for and 27 against a certain emergency procedure for this law. Who is responsible for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act supplementing the tax debt collection measures caused by the economic crisis, P.Z. No. 109. Please let us plead with your hand. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 82 for, 33 against an emergency procedure, were included the Final Proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Debt Payment Act caused by the economic crisis. Let's move on. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act, P.Z. No. 112. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of votes, 80 for and 37 against are included in the agenda under the urgent procedure is the final draft law amending and supplementing the Household Act. The next one's the fifth. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. The result? Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 78 for and 35 against are included in the agenda under the urgent procedure The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. And the sixth. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Privacy Act. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. The result? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 78 for and 35 against the agenda by emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Data Securitisation Act. Seven. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Security Verification Act? Please state by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 36 against the agenda under the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security Checks Act. We do not vote in accordance with Article 161 of the Law on the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Public Private Partnership and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed agenda points? There is. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6009	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Labour Club - the parties of the paper have the objection to non-accounting in the agenda of the Croatian Radio Television Act, the proposal for amendments and the addition of the law. On 10 April, the Croatian Labour Club sent the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on HRT... /The speaker was excluded./... almost 2.5 months ago. Meanwhile, on the agenda of the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament, more than two months later, the draft law on amendments and additions to the HRTV Act proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was included. When the Croatian Labour Club asked for the proposal of Croatian Labourists to be put on the agenda in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the joint debate on the draft law and the Government and Croatian Labour Party have responded that we need to set the agenda and that parliamentary representatives are not familiar with our bill. Here we are today laying down the agenda for next week and we are asking you to bring the debates together and submit to the MPs the draft law amending and supplementing the Croatian Labour Party Act more than the proposal that the profession has assessed more positively than the draft law amending and supplementing the Croatian Law proposed by the Government. The agenda of our proposal would include... the promises of both the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Parliament that this authority would treat the opposition quite differently from the previous government. And there was one remark that you couldn't put it on the agenda because our request didn't come, he traveled two days to the president's office. Now we believe that request has arrived. So I ask you to include in the agenda the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on HRT which was proposed by the Croatian Labour Party Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6010	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I can conclude that even now your proposal is not in line with Article 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It's true, and we won't discuss it here anymore. The agenda is complemented by this. Dear MPs and respected MPs, can we continue our work? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda of this session of the Croatian Parliament, with the following points: 1. Final proposal of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, Second Reading, PZE No. 71; 1. Proposal for a Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement, first reading of the PZE No. 138; 1. Proposal for a Law on concessions, first reading of PZE No. 134; 1. Proposed executive law, first reading of PZ No. 128; 1. Proposal for a Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation, first reading of the PZ No. 130; 1. Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Public Executors, first reading of PZ No. 129; 1. Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Public Execution Taxes, first reading of PZ No 131; 1. Final proposal of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, second reading of PZ No. 95; 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Encouragement, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 122; 1. The proposal for a law amending the Law on civil servants, with the Final Proposal for a Law on the Application of the Government, is not proposed to be placed on the agenda, 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on pay in public services, with a final proposal for a law also proposed by the Government not to be included in the agenda, 1. Final proposal of the Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeities for collective bargaining, second reading, PZ No. 96; 1. Proposal for a Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, first reading, PZ No. 136; 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 133, 15. Proposal for a Law on Sports Inspection, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 132, 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading, PZ No. 126, 17. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 127, 18. Proposal for a Act confirming the framework loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the "Financing of Water-Communal Infrastructure", with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 124, 19. Proposal for a Act confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 135, 20. Proposal for a Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in the event of disasters and major accidents, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 137, 21. Final Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Proposer: Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, 22.a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency (b) Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President and the Administrative Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, 23. Proposal for a decision and appointment of a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an emergency procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to an emergency procedure in law-making? Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6012	Dear Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we can take our stand to oppose the inclusion in the agenda of this session, these laws by emergency procedure. We welcome the government's idea that these two laws that intervene in the salaries of civil servants and public servants are not included in the agenda. But we still oppose the inclusion in the agenda of the points under the regular number of 9, 14, 15 and 17, these are the laws that remain in the emergency procedure. And because of the fact that the additionally sensitive public has shown its great dissatisfaction with the proposal of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, we suggest that you postpone the second reading of this law, it would be good to discuss it later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6013	Thank you very much. Any other suggestions? There isn't. Thank you very much. We can determine the quorum. We have a quorum. In total, it is in the House of Representatives and Representatives 129. Let's find out who's in charge of an emergency procedure in law-making. That's nine. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Encouragement, PZ No. 122. I'm asking you to raise your hand and tell me who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Who's against it? Who's restrained? There isn't. It's about determining the agenda, thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 84 for, 43 against a fixed emergency procedure for the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, PZ No. 122. Next, who is for the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, with the PZ No. 133? Can we please, by raising our hands, confirm who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes 84 for, 43 against the agenda by emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sport Act. Next, who's in charge of an emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Sports Inspection? I'm asking you to let us know who's in charge of an emergency procedure by hand? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes on the agenda by emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Sport Inspection, 84 for and 43 against. What is the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, PZE No. 127? I'm asking you to let us know who's in charge of an emergency procedure by hand? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that most votes 86 to 42 against are included in the agenda The final proposal of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. Let's move on. Who is in favour of the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the project "Financing of Water-Communal Infrastructure", CZ No. 124? Can we please, by raising our hands, confirm who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you very much. Who's against it? No one. I am laying down a unanimously established emergency procedure and 90 votes in favour of the Final Proposal for the Law on the confirmation of a framework loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the "Finance of Water-Communal Infrastructure". Eight, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, CZ No. 135? Can we please, by raising our hands, confirm who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you very much. Who's against it? No one. I find that the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal has been adopted unanimously in the agenda. Nine, who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in case of disasters and major accidents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 137? I'm asking you to step up your hand and confirm who's in charge of an emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? There isn't. I find that it is unanimous on the agenda by emergency procedure, with 128 votes for the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in the event of disasters and major accidents. And we still have a duty to make known by the Rules of Procedure, the proposal of a respected representative of the Mlakar to remove from the agenda reading the final proposal of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination. Please state who it is to include in the agenda the final draft law on assisted fertilisation, second reading, PZ No. 71, by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that with 84 votes for and 44 votes against included in the agenda the final draft law on medically assisted fertilisation, second reading, PZ No. 71. Thank you very much. Does anyone have any objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? If there is no objection to the inclusion in the agenda of the points which have been submitted, I shall conclude that the agenda has been completed. Thank you very much. Now we move on to a statement on the debated agenda points. Comrade Mlakar, here you are, dear representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6014	Dear Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we're looking for a break of 20 minutes. Here we have just received on benches of materials that are included in the agenda that we had no knowledge of, since they have not even exhausted so far points of the agenda I am asking for a break of 20 minutes for the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6015	Of course you're gonna get a break, but you're not going to study these materials now, you're going to agree. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. Thank you very much. And for the Dinko Buric Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6016	It's the same thing as...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6017	Thank you. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. We start work at 12:30. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. I'd like an esteemed representative of Davorin Mlakar, please. May I have your attention, please? On behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If we allow our colleagues, then one of the most important reasons we may have asked for a break on behalf of the club is the possibility that we will at least pass on our concerns to you and to the Croatian public about the fact that this session is being held on a continuous basis, or, unfortunately, longer breaks, from April 18th, so we are aware that the Parliament is regularly sitting until July 15th, which means only next week. So far there are 13 items left in the agenda, and today we are at 11 o'clock, so I brought these materials for illustration so that we can show about the inclusion in the agenda and that we can discuss these 13 unsettled in 5 days another 21 points of the agenda. For the matter to be better in these 21 points of the agenda is the Law on socially encouraged housing with the final draft law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, the Law on Sport with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Law on Sport Inspection with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Law on Civil Servants and Salutations in Public Services, and the Act on Medical Aided Insemination, the Law on the Treatment of Irregular Buildings, the laws concerning the executive procedure of public perpetrators. So, a set of very serious laws that will have great repercussions and services, I'm talking about public contractors that have already been established, so now I can't start working as well as on a whole series of activities from the government of the Republic of Croatia. We admire the intellectual capacity of our colleagues from the position, we may be a little less capable in 5 days of doing this material quality work so that we can have a quality discussion on the working bodies, as well as at the plenary session and make sure that all that will be taken are decisions that we stand behind both in front of our constituents and our knowledge because we have all brought with us some professional knowledge and experience into this House. The procedure was invented to help achieve democracy in the greater and more significant extent, not to rape democracy, to solve in five days what the government was unable to offer as solutions in six months. And instead of the procedure, we use the procedure for the benefit of all primarily citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia we are doing exactly the opposite. We are doing palitative interventions in the law, creating additional legal uncertainty, moving away from the principle of rule of law and leading people to confusion, to uncertainty in such a difficult situation, rather than helping quality laws and measures that we will all have the opportunity to discuss and speak if you want from different points of view, from the point of view of either position or opposition, because we all represent certain groups of voters to give an opinion on what is proposed before this House. Instead, you push us, you try to do a job with these piles of material in five days, which is very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, The proof of this is also a fact, and we tried to point it out to you in many performances both on the working bodies and on the plenary session that at such a lightly promised speed you have already made many mistakes so far. The last is best evidence that the government first asked you to put in, and then changed your mind and threw out of the agenda measures that would reduce salaries and civil servants and all public servants. The text some have been able to see, many have not. But this is certainly far from the work of the Parliament that we all stand for. In addition to everything else, by adopting a Rules of Procedure which should guarantee the quality and value of all MPs in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6020	Thank you, Your Honor. If I may, and I must say, I understand the logic and need of a position to step up to the pay phone. But it's for the public. We who now exercise responsibility for the government have trained for the last 8 years the speed of law-making by emergency procedure and the legislative stampede. And I assure you and the public that this democratic standard will be much better than it was. No one is immune to mistakes, and that is what we said when we were here in front of the Croatian public, and we presented our programme and plan to all of you. I can only say that on behalf of you in the Croatian Parliament I will continue to insist that we have two readings for materials where possible and that we respect the Rules of Procedure and the needs and priorities of the Government when necessary. This is our interest in the Croatian public and Croatian governments as well. Unfortunately, we must move forward with the vote. I understand. Thank you very much. First of all, the final proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on Compensation, I apologize. I forgot to say that a representative of the HDSSB club refused to discuss the subject. Thank you very much. We're going to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6021	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.22 HOURS]] We should start with the 1st item of the agenda. You have announced Mr. MP Djurovic has announced earlier. Here you go. And Mr. Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6022	Well, here you go, Mr. President, I hope you've got a third chance. Therefore, the HDSSB club, because of the state or decision of the Assembly Presidency to abolish patronage over the marking of Bleiburg, is seeking a 10-minute break in Bleiburg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6023	All right. Mr. Hodzic, you answered the same thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6024	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, I am asking for a break of 10 minutes because we believe that during the current clock today, there has been a rough attack on independence and internationally recognised BiH, so I would like to ask you to comment on this because we consider it inadmissible in the way that this happened today in a discussion and the question of a respected colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6025	Mr. Josip Salapic on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6026	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the HZD Club is looking for a 10-minute break for the same reasons as the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6027	Thank you. Mr. Caine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6028	So just as before the club as well as Mr. Djurovic in front of the IDS Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes, but not because of the fact that the Assembly Presidency has taken the decision to abolish patronage over Bleiburg, but because of what we are providing in this year, these 500 thousand kuna. So please take a break from those 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6029	Thank you very much. It's a ten-minute stop for said clubs. Thank you. We're continuing our colleagues and colleagues with our work. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6031	Mr. President of the Parliament, MPs and MPs. Within a month of the clear sky, an initiative by Daniel Ivin appeared to abolish the patronage of the Croatian Assembly at the memorial of the victims of the crossroad that has been held in Bleiburg in Austria in mid-May each year, and to move the place of memorial to the victims of the crossroad to the site of a site in the Republic of Croatia or Slovenia. The initiative came upon fertile ground both with the president of the Croatian state, prime minister, Croatian Parliament president and in the ruling coalition. During yesterday's debate of the extended parliamentary presidency that I attended, a clear intention of rulings to do just that was revealed. The HDSSB's representative club believes that the issue of abolishing the Croatian Parliament's patronage should be discussed at the plenary session. One of the most important arguments used by opponents of the parliamentary patronage of the Bleibur tragedy is that it is a place of greatness of fascist symbols and that the Croatian state should not be financed by the Ustavlu. We also heard that argument at a session of the extended presidency. Bleiburska's gatherings have been going on for decades because there are more than 600 sites on the cross road, in Austria, Slovenia and from Vardar to Triglav only in the opposite direction, where the Partizan army killed tens of thousands of disarmed and captured soldiers, civilians, women, children, elderly people, large majority of Croatian nationality after the end of World War II. So, clearly and loudly, our attitude around Bleiburg, in Bleiburg, is not honoring the Ustasha army, is not honoring the fascist regime of Ante Pavelic, but is honoring the victims of the South-Communist post-war crime. It is this fact that tortures and pains today that the remains of that Ju-Communist machine, a former inmate who today, under the cover of false anti-fascism, are trying to cover up traces of both his crimes and the crimes of his comrades. For this crime of genocide, these mass liquidations that were committed after World War II were held accountable by no one. The victims were never exhumed... , identified, cemeteries are not properly marked, and perpetrators of crime have never been brought to justice. [[You don't understand.]] The Yugoslav Communist Authority and the UDBA until the 1990s have tried many times and in various ways for decades to stop the Bleiburg memorial and have never succeeded. And now this left-wing government, SDP, the party of the SK should finally end up with a story about Bleiburg, changing both the place and the time of the marking, engulfing the clear vision of the communist crime, clouding the water so that what failed with the old comforters decades until the 1990s finally determine today's generation. And all this with the spiritual guidance of historian Daniel Ivin, who in history is best known for being tried for financial malfeasances while in 2001 in Geotechnica he was chairman of the Supervisory Board. Gentlemen from the left coalition, you are opening old Croatian peoples' wounds, radicalised and political and social relations in Croatian society. You may have been calling for rain to cover up your incompetence and problems to solve current social problems, but you will call for a fight that will destroy the little fruit that you may be able to produce in your term. Because the fact is that for the past 10 years, just under the auspices of the Croatian Parliament, the memorials in Bleiburg have been turning towards victims of the crossroad, and the appearance of Ustasha symbols at the level of individual excesses that have been growing from year to year. It is the patronage of the Croatian Parliament over the memorial, as well as the wise Ivica Racan had in practice, contributed to the calming of historical passions, spurred the reconciliation of the Croatian people and brought down the Bleiburg memorial to the polite frames of a sad memorial over the innocent victims of communist folly. Therefore, the HDSSB is against any change from the present model of crossroad victims and the elimination of this model as it has been so far. You can end that patronage now with most votes, but people will still gather there, and these gatherings will further radicalize. You call for divisions, you will divide and receive, if that is the purpose of responsibility for your actions and the divisions that you will cause by it, you will bear alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6032	Thank you very much. I join those who earn from the bench even if that's not the way, that we shouldn't threaten with any divisions but can be judged, but not threatened. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, Mr. Representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6033	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We felt the need to react in the way that the question has been raised today in this House, and in particular an explanation. It is a question of the Prime Minister's question about the Mostar-Zagreb plane line. Dear fellow Filipovic who asked the question immediately to say that I am the idea and the desire that this line exists I absolutely support, and I believe all my colleagues from the club of national minorities because this line Mostar – Zagreb will not only do good to the bridgers, but it will do good to the Tribbinians, Montenegrins who do not live far away. It will do well for all people living there in the region, regardless of whether they are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro or our country, the Republic of Croatia. However, what you said today as part of your argument, I must express my great dissatisfaction because I believe you spoke in a very rude way about the sovereign, independent and friendly and neighbouring country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a sovereign country today organised under the Dayton Agreement or Constitution. This Dayton Constitution was signed both at the time and the president of this country, the late Mr. Tudjman, and he is in effect today. Bosnia and Herzegovina under the constitution consists of two entities. It consists of one district and there is no one there, but no Serbian, no Bosniak, but no Croatian spaces like you explicitly said today that they do not exist. So, a plane line that should connect Croatia's premises in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the queen of the country or the capital of Zagreb. So that's what we consider to be a rude violation of integrity and integrity. Bosnia and Herzegovina is today organized as it is. What her future will be like, we'll see. But we in this House must respect that integrity. What we can say at some political gathering so that it may sound like a constituency to the electorate cannot be allowed to speak of the sovereign country in the Croatian Parliament. So, I ask you colleagues to and in the future when it comes to such or similar discussions to react to it. In particular, the reason for the existence of the Banja Luka-Balgrade plane line has hurt. What would that mean? To connect some Serbian spaces to the country of origin. There is, of course, a line, but it is not for him to connect Serbian spaces in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the country of origin. Or what this should mean is that it represents for you the line Sarajevo – Istanbul. For me as a Bosniak, it has nothing to do with counterpart Munic, who was born in Sarajevo, it has nothing to do with my country of origin. It is simply a need for such lines to be maintained, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is the whole country being organised as I appeal to all together in this Parliament to safeguard the integrity not only of Bosnia and Herzegovina but also of all other surrounding countries. Of course, we are obliged to do so under our Constitution and law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6034	Thank you. I have now been informed that half of my discussion on behalf of the HDZ club would be spoken by Mr. Ilija Filipovic and half by Mr. Vladimir Seks. If you don't mind? Here you go, Mr. Representative Filipovic. You can come here, come here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6035	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is until I get used to these rules of conduct on behalf of the club talking to me for the first time here, and it is my special pleasure, but my theme is very undesirable because obviously Mr. Hodzic's distinguished representative has mistaken pears and apples for his own reasons and put my good intentions to connect a free airport in Mostar with Zagreb. Because it's close to the greatest shrine where pilgrimages now according to the rough data of the Franciscan province in the past 30 years over 20 million pilgrims. It is a poster to God, and trust us or not to believe that 50% of these revenues would be such touristic, religious attractions, which are mostly the strongest tourist destination of pilgrimages throughout Europe, so this would probably be with Medjugorje, if we couldn't, therefore, that Croatia's airlines that work, which was driving, which has stopped again for unknown reasons for me in 2003. Keeping the line Mostar – Zagreb, Zagreb – Mostar and that Mostar, who woke up, said that himself and in his representative issue, have stronger ties, of course, Mr. Hodzic and the Croatian Matica, we Croatians admire that we have our own state, and you should admire yourself because as a representative of the national minority and you are mentioned honorably in the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Look, I'm glad you're in the Parliament and you're in the preamble of my country's Constitution. But I have to tell you in relation to this fact that it is too important that the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have questions of vital national interest, official Croatian language or official channel in Croatian, thanks to persistent Bosniak politics because they say it will destroy Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm sorry, it's such a flossula that I have to mention here in the context of this issue. And if you'll allow me, Mr. President, just one more thing about the Dayton Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6036	But look, I can't let you because you're wasting your time with your colleague, and I wouldn't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6037	Nothing, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6038	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. MP Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6039	I really don't think so, I don't want to polymerize, but there's a lot to fix. So here I was talking about the term of Croatian spaces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I absolutely supported the Mostar line – Zagreb not only because of Croats living downstairs, but also all other citizens. So this is the Croatian Parliament, and here in the Croatian Parliament we must respect the sovereignty and way of organising all other countries and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I have made it clear and loud. And you've made another additional comparison here with some other lines you should probably associate that there are some other spaces that belong to someone else. Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to Bosnia and Herzegovina and is organised as it is organised. What's gonna be tomorrow is what we'll see. We asked the prime minister to contribute to being a European state as soon as possible, but I think you have parallels now tied to the Bosniak policy of some parties in Bosnia and have nothing to do with Croatia, and have nothing to do with the Croatian Assembly and have nothing to do with me as a representative of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6040	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the second topic is Mr. Vice President Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6041	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I will present the position of HDZ, which was presented by the president of the party, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, on behalf of the HDZ, at the presidency of the Croatian Parliament and explained in the direction that the HDZ holds that the Croatian Parliament should continue to be the sponsor of the victims in Bleiburg and on the cross roads. This is the position of HDZ, which I repeat on behalf of the club now and on behalf of the club, again and again, and I suggest that HDZ is held therefore, because it is also funded with half a million kuna markings according to current practice and that it should remain for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6042	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6043	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Before we talk about these airport connections, so clearly these air links should be provided or provided with Zagreb-Pula-Zadar with Mostar, it does not matter Sarajevo or vis-a-vis Medjugorje, etc. As I also agree with Mr Hodzic about BiH. Both Bosniaks and Croats suffered too much there, including Serbs, so that untreated wounds should be salted today. But I didn't experience it that way, the question that was asked here. So you don't throw salt at the wound in either the Parliament or Mostar, or Banja Luka or Sarajevo. But I didn't answer the vis-a-vis it. I answered the Bleiburg's hang-a-vis. By my judgment, the Bureau's decision on patronage over Bleiburg is absolutely logical. I agree with those who spoke yesterday, who speak today, who speak in the Croatian public that this will certainly provide some recommendations in the Croatian public. I've been talking about this pay phone for many years, a lot of memorials to the last defeated World War II army. The only thing that was problematic for me yesterday at the presidency is that we are providing 500 thousand kuna this year for a gathering that will once again destroy the credibility of the Republic of Croatia. It may be better to give 500 thousand kuna to those children for chemotherapy in Rijeka or Pula or somewhere else, but let's let it go now. But no matter what, I personally think it's moving, I agree that this Bleiburg has somehow become a myth. And this decision yesterday's presidency, today or I don't know anyone else's myth can be further fed and encouraged, but it's also true that no one can dispute that NDH is probably the only army that fought eight days after the capitulation of fascist Germany, that by the 300, 350 thousand people led on the one hand by Pavelic, on the other hand, Max Luboric, the commander of Jasenovac, all the conlogators, and that this army simply didn't want to surrender. And that's where I think we all agree. It is also true that after 15.05, when the army laid down its weapons, mass executions occurred upon the return of the escape across the borders of Yugoslavia or at ex-Yugoslavia. And that's probably where we can get along. The execution was also over innocent people, not just sworn Ustashas. And every innocent victim deserves to be mourned and buried Christianly, rehabilitated. And everyone has the right to their own grave, to their burial to say the Istrians on the mass clearly, and I don't think it's necessary to provoke masses when given to Pavelic or such characters. Those who have ordered these liquidations and those who have done them clearly that they have committed a war crime or a crime against humanity, it does not matter, and it is clear that you should respond, and you should also bear the consequences. On the other hand, it's been 67 years since those executions, and no one, I'd say, is against the victim being marked, to sanction the executioners. Clearly, the processes should not be managed as in the case of the old Bolkovec, planted etc. But where are these memorials supposed to work? In my court here in the room, gentlemen of the Republic of Croatia. And far before Mr. Ivo, I was saying not to commemorate in front of that monument where it stands among other things in honor and glory of the famous defeated so somehow by the Croatian army. Because they were neither famous nor Croatian army. So, let's mark the Croatian victims in Croatia. And we could finally do it for 20 years and so far. I know there's no one here in this assembly that someone didn't get hurt by fascists, and the other part of the family from someone will say communists, partisans, actually, I always say bandits. And in my wife's family four killed, three brothers and one sister of partisans. Why? Because they were told to me by the bishop of the Italians, and their children were all partisans, etc. It means honoring every one of the victims from Istria to Bleiburg, from Jazovka to the Hude Cave, but not to commemorate the gentlemen of the defeated army. I personally consider this decision to be
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6044	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6045	What's up?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6046	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6047	Time is logical, and that's why I absolutely support it. Let's mark these victims in Croatia whether it's said that someone was killed in a photo, in a trench, in a mine like in that pit and in some concentration on a site, etc., but let's not allow honor to be honored or to be commemorated by a defeated army.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6048	Thank you very much. Before I correct the incorrect allegations to Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, just to say that the meeting of the Tourism Committee will be held in 16 hours immediately after the vote. Here you go, Mr. Agent Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6049	It's hard to correct Mr. Cain, but I'll try. This is not a memorial to a defeated army in World War II, but to a memorial to innocent victims who are bound by wire and who have been shot in the back of the head. Among them were not only soldiers; among them were children and women and parents. But what you're proposing together with the president is that the crossroad is being re-formed through Slovenia and Croatia until then, until Nis, it has lasted because if they were to mark and carry out this memorial then the Croats would go to the Crossroad again. What we are asking is that this decision should not be taken by the Presidency of the Parliament but rather by a debate here in the Parliament, without the division of Croatian citizens and Croatian peoples.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6050	Please, you're not correcting the quote now, you're talking about the things your club representative was talking about. And he's already said that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6051	Okay. I'll finish it. So, one of those who was tied to the wire, Mr. Cain, wasn't the Ustasha who fell. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6052	Time has expired for which you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6053	He was my grandfather in Jasenovac. Ustasha was and got shot in the back of the head. I don't know where his grave is and who killed him and where he killed him, and I don't know where his body is and how I'm gonna honor him. And Bleiburg is a symbol of that suffering because that's where the British extradited both the defeated army and the innocent people.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6054	Thank you very much. In conclusion, I can say that it is Article 36. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which I have not voted for but which I am applying, and I must first and foremost apply it provided that the Presidency of the Assembly accepts patronage on behalf of the Parliament. Conclusions from yesterday's Bureau session were also published, forwarded to the public. Yesterday they're in the papers that were here. As for this provision of the Rules of Procedure while it is here, we should stick to it, and otherwise I think it would be good to have such things about the markings of such significant events from history, the anniversary is decided in the Croatian Parliament. But we are currently on the agenda for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, and this is an opportunity for us to consider this issue as well. Mr. Vinkovic, what are you going to fix now? Here you go. You can't fix me, I'm sorry, my secretary says. You can't fix me. You see, it's the same Rules of Procedure. You can have other colleagues, you can't correct me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6055	What Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6056	According to the Rules of Procedure that you have before you as much as I do. Thank you very much. ... I told you in the Rules of Procedure, you can't. [[Speakers speaking in the same voice do not understand.]] Study him. Thank you very much. The first to ask the first parliamentary question has the word Jovo Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6094	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDSS club, I would like to ask Mr. Ranko Ostojic, the interior affairs and the frequent violence against Serb national students. I'm going back a few months to elaborate on a few examples that have come to us and we want to see how to solve it. The day after the handball match between Croatia and Serbia, at the end of January, high school students in Grazac were scolded by their counterparts, named national basis. As far as we know, this procedure has not caused any sanctions. Then there were several incidents of violence against Serbian Orthodox high school students... Katarina Brankovic in Zagreb last Friday on Friday for Orthodox believers, were named and insulted on national grounds and egg shots. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday they were again insulted on a national basis, and a student was physically attacked and ended up in an emergency room. Fortunately, no major injuries. Although police who have all these cases reportedly been promised an escort talk about high school in Zagreb are currently missing on the way. Although insights have been made, there is no punishment for the perpetrators and we have no indication when this practice will stop. So, Mr. Minister, I ask you to answer me how you intend to stop it, when and what you think you're doing, and what measures that will lead to the end of psychological and physical violence against children because these problems are not needed by anyone. I'm sure you agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6095	Thank you very much. Minister Ranko Ostojic, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6096	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. It's your line that speaks of the police doing insights and looking for the perpetrators talking about that, regardless of what we've got, it's actually a surprise question that's taking place right now. I can tell you that the events that took place in March and April related specifically to Serbian Orthodox high school are the serious work of the Second Police Station in Zagreb, held talks with the director. Likewise at this time I can guarantee you that the Croatian police are taking action to find the perpetrator and this latest case that took place yesterday at 7 p.m. and 40 minutes, specifically on the bus at the minor G.V. As far as the other incidents are concerned, I must say that we pay particular attention to this because for many years, thanks to the exact efforts probably made by all, and there were no incidents or crimes committed in the domain of hate crime against minors of Serbian nationality. What I would especially like to emphasise is the events of such peer violence are special attention to the police and on the 20th of this month is an agreed meeting of the school's directors, specifically not to speak all the details that police are taking at the moment. I believe that by working together, we will do everything possible to prevent such a situation. Do not, be sure that regardless of your question and according to the actions taken earlier, this focus and priority are also important for the Croatian police.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6097	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Vukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6098	I am pleased with the answer only if it is possible for you to act preventively so that it no longer happens if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6099	Next in line to ask the oral parliamentary question is Mr. Representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6100	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It's been over 100 days of this government. You've seen, I think it's some kind of democratic standard in those 100 days I haven't sent over newspapers or through the media any kind of criticism to the health system. A document that says, it may be an awkward question, we've been deceived, the health care owes more than 7 billion kuna. You know we started reforming the health system when the debt was just over five billion kunas. You also know that I said at the end of our term that there was a debt somewhere around 2 billion kuna. Now, I have a document that has brought to you by the Administrative Council which you are, the new Administrative Council which has appointed on your proposal the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Total hospital obligations, health homes and polyclinics are a billion and 700 million 137 thousand 945 lips. The HZZO's commitments are 327 million 133 thousand 509 lips. So, very clearly some Croatian public knows that the health system's obligations have reached exactly as we said when we were in the handover of the government, which is 2 billion 78 million 271 thousand 454 June. If they overlap with each other, the debt is below 2 billion, a billion and 905 million 433 thousand and 825 June. You said you'd return the old role of the House of Health and return the concessionaries to their homes of health. You said you'd halve the waiting lists, now you're saying you'll bring them to medically justified acceptables. The waiting lists have been extended by 10 to 20%, debts in healthcare in the last three months have increased by 780 million kuna. I said when you make a budget, if you keep the same budget, it'll be hard to keep the same level of health care. My question is that we no longer have a collapse, and the visible collapse of the health system is visible in Rijeka, not because of the director and the leadership, but because of the funds they have received or have been reduced. And my question is tell me three key measures that you can or want to prevent the visible collapse of the health system in the Republic of Croatia, and why did you deceive the Croatian public that there was a debt, and your administrative council said it was exactly what I said, and why did you deceive the Croatian public that it was 7 billion kuna and is that a way to cover up your disagreement?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6101	Thank you very much. Minister, before you answer, at least I'm not sure you've been asked a question because I haven't heard that. Secondly, please be, it's been a minute and 15 seconds since you've covered your time, so I'm asking everyone else to take care of it because it's written to you, now you see exactly when you're done with your discussion in this matter. So you're asking the question, I assume, Minister Ostović? Mr. Representative, you didn't say that. Are you asking Minister Ostojić? ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Wait, one is to assume, and the other is... Okay, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Minister Ostojić Rajko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6102	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Representative. The facts clearly say that the last four years have not worked well. Not only the facts, sir, but also the Constitutional Court, who has made a recent decision that you have illegally joined hospitals. You're going back in time, that's not good. If I were naughty now, I'd answer you next, and I'm not bad, but I'd answer you about the debt, if I were bad, so I'd quote the biggies. The wholesalers say, Mr. Representative, that Croatian hospitals don't pay for drugs for a thousand days, sanitary materials. 100 days and 1000 days. So I'm quoting wholesale drugs, not quoting Plan 21, and I'm not quoting the coalition. If I were naughty, I'd tell you, Mr. Representative, that the tumour clinic has been closed for 14 months. If I were naughty, I'd tell you that we opened it in a month, and that's why we cut the waiting lists. If I were naughty, and I wasn't, I'd tell you, Mr. Representative, that I've been waiting for the purchase of museum appliances four-and-a-half times, but today they're 64- and 128-layered. If I were naughty, Mr. Representative, I would quote my colleagues two rows behind you who say in an authorised interview that it was a bad social and health programme or your candidate for president of your party who said it was a bad thing, it was a bad thing. But I'm not bad. So there will be no private monopoly, Mr. Representative, PET CT in the 4th month will be installed on the KBC Rebr... I'll answer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] KBC Rebro will no longer be a private monopoly spilling public funds into private pockets. We got... , we will return Croatian medicine, which is our Plan 21, where it belongs – to the top of European and world medicine, public health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have obtained and begin the purchase of recent equipment, I thank Mr. Representative Marasovic for commending us that we will also help KBC Split. So, Mr. Representative, study Plan 21, study all the measures we've taken in these 100 days. So, we're solving the Constitutional Court, today Klaic's hospital is coming out of the KBC Sister of Mercy, we're starting an separation program, we finally have a National Hospital for Children's Diseases. You asked me about the Word, I didn't expect it from you. Children's haematooncology is a painful point. Children's haematooncology is something you promised your colleague Marasovic that you would create a daily hospital in Split. We'll make it in the set this year. We will not organise humanitarian concerts and foundations, so we have already begun to release money from the state budget of KBC Split. KBC Rijeka has improved quality thanks to humanitarian concerts and foundations. KBC Osijek has no children's haematooncologist. Yesterday at 2:00 p.m., the first time in the Ministry of Health was founded for the first time in 20 years. There are only 14 experts. They don't even have their own company, they're not even in the Croatian Medical Assembly. They have received a clear guidance on what they must do, the chairman of the commission has to visit every month and send me a report on how they made Croatian children who unfortunately have 150 annually with newly discovered malignancies to be treated according to European guidelines. And of course it has to pay HZO. Therefore, the final facts clearly say that it was not well done in your term of office. The Constitutional Court undoubtedly says that it was not legal, and what I can promise you to the Croatian public that good work and legal work will be done and that is our plan. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6103	Thank you, Minister, for being, for not extending the time to respond, but the reaction to your response is by Agent Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6104	I asked you to tell me three basic key elements to prevent the visible collapse of the health system. Recognising your own failure is the highlight of moral and ethical boldness, Krleža said. You could admit your own failure in the last 100 days and that's human. But I'm not sure that the Croatian health system can suffer your failures for the next 100 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6105	Thank you. Mr. Representative, excuse me before we go to the next parliamentary issue only that, it is very important, I inform the representatives of the members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission that a session was called today at 13:30 in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. Please respond to that session because the assumption is for our further work. Thank you very much. The third in a row, Mr. Representative Zeljko Schemper, also applied for the parliamentary issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6106	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to Minister of Health Rajko Ostojić. It is normal for pensioners to be regular and the largest consumer of medicines in view of years of life. The main expenditure of the pension budget is the directing and necessary medicines, the food is spent on what remains. Statistics show that cardiovascular disease is one of the most common causes of death. The medications for the circulation of the neck spine and head are necessary, very expensive and are not free and cannot be without them. Mr. Minister, that's why I'm talking to you about the question and perhaps more by request, can any of these medicines be put on a free list and, at least, make it easier for the lives of the pensioners who use these drugs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6107	Thank you very much. Minister Miranda Mrsic has been asked a question. I heard. No, I don't. Then I heard wrong. It was also illogical. Rajko Ostojić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Inspector Schamper, for your question. So, as you know for yourself, retirement does not mean restlessness, however, means one normal physiological stage that all those who retire must be creative, have to be healthy, have to fulfill all that is not during their lifetime medication. In medicine, we evaluate drugs with three aspects. Scientific and professional and experienced. The medications for circulation are experienced and in my experience very, very good. They've been "old" for about 40, 50 years and I've given them many times in my clinical practice, so I've indicated and received feedback to help our citizens and citizens. However, from a scientific and professional point of view, which means clinical research, meta-analysis, the collection of all data around the world in one place, it is otherwise called the cohren analysis has been proven and I will now quote you "that there is not enough evidence that these drugs have its own clinical effect". She also made the Agency for Medicinal Products for the FDA America. Namely, the drugs for circulation one of them was introduced in the 1950s and was withdrawn, so it was returned by a court ruling and by a provision in 1968. Given this discrepancy of experience and science, a new scientific analysis is currently being done and I can tell you next Mr. Schamper that the results are very encouraging and that nevertheless the effects of these drugs on circulation and highly likely as soon as the EMEA of the European Medicines Agency and put on the list of medicines will do so, of course, HZZO. Thank you very much for your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6109	Thank you very much. Representative Zeljko Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6110	Mr. Minister, I'm happy with the answer. And if there were no such demands on this part, it would be good if one of the professional pensioners were also a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Health Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6111	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zlatko Tušak is next to ask... a representative question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6112	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic. Dear Minister, we witness the layoffs of workers and the shutting down of several hundred jobs every day. The average salary for November 2011 was 5 729 kn, for December 5 493 kn, for January this year 5 463 kuna. In those three months, the average salary is lower by 266 kuna. The number of pensioners in January this year amounted to a million 213 thousand 121 and in March this year, a million 215 thousand 539, which is more in the pension system for 2 418 pensioners. In December of last year, there were a million 381 thousand 847, and in March of this year, a million 363 thousand 155 were employed by 18 262. The unemployed last December were 315 thousand 438, and in March of this year, 339 thousand 882 were more unemployed for 24 thousand 444. The announced new bankruptcy, layoffs of workers will increase the number of unemployed, and the continued price rise in this country creates a growing poverty. We listen, hear, read that you are preparing measures for free young workers to help our capitalists reduce labour costs. So please answer your questions, so I'd like to ask the answer when you're going to do something to secure at least 5,000 new jobs, and I'm not talking about that free work, but paid for the job done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6113	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6114	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Your question is more focused on the Ministry of Economy and Small Entrepreneurship, as you know ministries work intensively to create new jobs and create new jobs is the only measure that can reduce unemployment. The fact that Croatia did not make the changes it was supposed to make from 2005 to 2008. And that's why we have what we have at this point that the Croatian economy is practically not working. Perhaps I should explain to you that the Ministry of Labour and the Pensions System and the Employment Service are not opening new jobs. This ministry and Employment Service is a place where young people and all those who are unemployed allow them to gain new job experience to gain new jobs and to raise the employability of the workforce at the time the Croatian economy is launched and when new jobs start. We expect it to be at the end of this year, but you have to know that even when the economy starts, it will take us at least another 6 months to see that we see that we are going to have a drop in the number of unemployed, and the number of employees is growing. Your question about free labour has missed the full goal because it's about no free workforce, it's about young people who have no job experience, because since they don't have a job experience, then they can't run for a job. This was also told by employers and young people because it was a major obstacle to obtaining the desired job. Out of 130,000 young people over 60,000 have no day of work experience. The second defeating fact is that young people of 35 years are less than 10,000 of them, not a day of work experience. They finished college 10 years ago, and I can't get to that much desired work experience. This measure is not new, it is also implemented in Europe. Practically two days ago, Europe took the same path, the Directive on the creation of new jobs for young people came out. So our measure is aimed at highly educated young people, it's directed towards craftsmanship, it's aimed at people who need two years of learning to pass the master. On the other hand, only employers who do not fire workers will be able to use this measure, means that they do not give business terms of notice, pay salaries and pay contributions. On the other hand, the Employment Service will be a place to take care of these young people and hire them in companies, so it will also control employers who are hiring. I completely reject the stories that it will lower the labour price, that we will allow large trade chains to employ people. As I say and stress, it's turned to young people with college. It's not a measure that's new, we expand so that we can cover as many young people as possible and if you ask young people from the stock market. If you ask the person who's been at the Employment Service for years what most of them should do will tell you I'm willing to work and free just to get that year's work experience. We said no, you won't work for free, you'll get a fee of 1600 kuna, you'll get a pension, you'll get it into your work book, and we'll let you get that year's work experience with the hope that you'll get a job with that employer when jobs open. So it is targeted and targeted, along with all other active employment policy measures, as you know one of the items that is in this budget have been raised active employment measures, all with the aim of making use of the people who are on the market at this time to acquire new knowledge to raise their own employability, at the time when jobs are opened so that we can hire them. And the number of unemployed is the number shown on the Employment Service website, we said we wouldn't make complications, make a big name and drama out of it. This is a picture of what Croatia is, a picture of what has not been done so far and simply has to be run by the economy and there are only three words that can enable it, which is production, production and production.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6115	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zlatko Tušak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6116	Ministers, I'm not happy with the answer because when I asked the question, then I said they were free for capitalists, for employers. I didn't get an answer to that question. Secondly, I didn't ask you and your ministry to hire but I asked when you'd get the employment measures. Our citizens are in a hopeless situation, they have nothing to eat, they're literally starving. In the campaign, you promised a long life, but by your answers, I see we've got a life on the line. Thank you, and I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6117	You will also receive a written reply as all MPs have so far received all written answers in this term. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nedzad Hodzic is going to ask the oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6118	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My question is for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. But before I ask you a question, Mr. Prime Minister, I want to express my satisfaction but also the satisfaction of a large number of citizens with whom I am in contact that you chose and visited Bosnia and Herzegovina for your first visit outside our country's borders. Given that the Croatian people are one of the three constituent peoples in BiH, I don't think it should be specifically explained that you have taken a responsible state's move, but I believe that you are no less interested in the fate and future and other citizens of the Republic of BiH. My question is: after a visit to BiH, you see the dynamics of approaching the European Union of BiH, as well as other countries in the region.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6119	Thank you very much. The word has a prime minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6120	Dear colleague, thank you for your affectionate introduction. My view of BiH and Serbia-Montenegro's perspective when it comes to the European Union may be relevant to this House. I hope that soon our position will be relevant for a Europe in which we will not only implement things in the future but also formulate our interests. The Croatian interest is that BiH and Serbia-Montenegro become members of the European Union as soon as possible, and I do not think there is any need to speak further here because it is clear, therefore it is a zone of stability, peace, it is a area of predictability in behaviour, and predictability is the mother of success in the business. With BiH, we have some open issues that we must resolve in this mandate. From the Croatian perspective, this is primarily when we talk about these border issues connecting Dubrovnik with the northern Dubrovnik-Neretva County. It's a border we haven't defined with BiH yet, the contract was signed long ago and it stands. This and the status of the port of Ploče, which is the Croatian port, will remain a Croatian port and will be managed by the Croatian State as the owner or other owners who are inside, but without BiH, there is no big point and we will talk about it. That's all the topics on the table. However, as for Serbia and BiH, it is worth it to us to become a member of the EU as soon as possible, to stabilise the state, to become manageable with solid institutions and that, while BiH is governed in such a constitutional way by the Dayton Constitution, it is a state of three, primarily three constituent peoples: Croats, come first as our countrymen or most of us, Bosniaks and Serbs. And the status of Croats in BiH is not a side issue for us and we will try and work to ensure that this status is an equal status. My coalition, our coalition, my party when it comes to this, has no political electoral interests because, as it is known in these elections, we do not participate and we do not have candidates. We're only interested in a fair solution, a fair solution, that's all. I hope my answer pleases you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6121	Mr. Representative Hodzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6122	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. I'm happy with the answer. You are also expected to do so in the presidency mandate, you and your Government to do what is in ours, that is, yours, and our powers as states to bring these countries from the region as soon as possible to the EU. This is not only the interest of these countries I fully agree with, it is also the interest of the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6123	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic will ask a representative question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6124	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues, it is a matter for a colleague of Arsen Bauk, the minister of the administration. It's very simple. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, will the Law on Local Self-Government be amended? Namely, whether new solutions will be sought on the possibility of the replacement of municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors, since under the current law it is almost impossible to replace them, even if there have been severe conflicts between representative bodies and mayors, mayors or mayors. If this law is to be amended, I ask you to respond because the Croatian public is very interested in it. What changes are predicted and when they will come.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6125	Thank you very much. Minister Arsen Bauk will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6126	Mr. Representative, there will be a demand for new choices so that we don't talk about shifts, so let's be positive. In fact, the direct choice of mayor is, however, in relation to the situation which was before a step forward, and we will not take that step back. So, the direct choice will certainly remain. Also, a legally envisaged recalling agent, a referendum in the last three years, has not yet been passed by one that has succeeded, and there has been one failed attempt. Thus, the institute was obviously not affected when it was prescribed in the manner prescribed. Also, where the chief has a firm majority in the council of some kind of problem, I mean the blockade of the system is gone. So we're left with a problem where there are alleged signs of cohabitation. For this we are really looking for new mechanisms, and in this sense there will be an amendment not only to the Law on Local Self-Government but there are four other laws that regulate these things. What is certain is that we will introduce the institute to make simultaneous elections in the event of a budget not being passed. Therefore, the budget, the adoption or non-accounting will certainly be that critical point once a year where it will be tested whether or not there is a chief of support in the Council. And in that case, the choice would be not like now to go to the election only to the council, but to go to the election and the chief. Whether there will be any other mechanisms of control and the possibility of a simultaneous election of councils and commissioners will also show the public debate we are going to have because we think that these things are, therefore, the basis of the political system and that it is best to reach a consensus that there is not such a short century as this is a solution that has proved to be, therefore, impractical. Of course, those solutions would have come to life from the next local elections, since there is also this restriction that a referendum cannot be held in the last year. And of course we're also thinking about some more changes to this relationship. But let us therefore come up with a proposal to discuss it publicly in the widest possible light, both with the interested public and with the academic community and with all those who need to discuss it, with constitutional and legal experts, but also with the political opposition to get a good and sustainable solution for the longer term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6127	Thank you. Following the parliamentary question, he applied and obtained the right Mr. Representative Boris Kovacic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6128	Thank you, Mr. President. And let me ask the Minister of Environmental Protection to Dr Mirelli Holly. Dear Madam Minister, we know that there is a new waste law in the public debate that actually brings in a number of newspapers. However, given that, according to this proposal, waste management will be carried out by volume, and not by the size of the apartment as it has been so far. Can you specifically tell us whether this new model for individuals, or whether our fellow citizens will be more expensive or whether the accounts will still be smaller than they have been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6129	Thank you very much. Minister of Nature and Environment, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6130	Your Honor, it is true that the new draft of the waste law is in the procedure, i.e. in the public debate, so that during this month because the public debate began on 2.4, it will take up to 2.5 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government and municipal enterprises to declare the proposal for this law, as well as certain elements of this law. However, it should be pointed out that the provision relating to the quantity, or volume, is introduced because units of local self-government are now subject to primary selection and thus we plan to do so to motivate citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to zealously select waste in their households. Because it's precisely this poor waste selection that's going to have a direct impact on the fact that their bills are being dropped off. We believe that those citizens and citizens who will approach this in a reluctance will have a direct impact on their export accounts being reduced. If they are not so poor then they may have an increase in waste, but we would like to stress that waste management is an extremely valuable economic activity and that, apart from that, it means environmental benefits that we will get through this Act and start certain economic practices and thus create new jobs because in our developed world waste is very useful raw materials and not garbage as is currently the case in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6131	Thank you. Okay. We can move on. Ms Lidija Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6132	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected prime minister with ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to refer the question to the Minister of Health, Mr. Rajk Ostojić. Dear Ministers, waiting lists are a huge problem in Croatian health care that is very burdensome and frustrating can tell Croatian citizens who need medical attention, a review or a search. You promised that waiting lists would be reduced into medically acceptable frameworks. However, we have been reading and listening to waiting lists in some hospitals even increase. So can you tell us what can be done and what are you in the ministry specifically doing to reduce the waiting list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6133	Thank you very much. Minister Rajko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6134	So thank you for that question regarding all our citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, the program I inherited and which runs the waiting lists does not provide adequate data. The data is therefore not clear and unequivocal. All those waiting for any checkup, whether regular or control, or haste are being conducted in the same place. I'll try to be picturesque. This morning at 7:30, I examined my old patient who has a benign liver tumor that unfortunately has malignant potential, but it's 99.5% of the cases were benign. And he comes to me in control of my order. And of course today I looked at it, it was given to me on 5 April 2013 at 8 a.m. since Mr. Professor is in high school, teaching and working. So he's gone to teach, he's healthy, he'll come to my control, he knows exactly that he's coming to me on April 5th, he's got a place waiting for him, and I'll be there if I'm alive and well, he's waiting for the camera, and you know how the waiting list leads him, mine? Takes him to basically wait for his own review, and the man works, teaches, earns a living. It's not on the burden of sickness, it's not on HZZO's burden, it's on man. In other words, in that waiting list, there is unfortunately everything and everything. There are waiting lists arranged in the countries that are being organised and we will present it to you in May. Three waiting lists – fast, control and regular. Fast, and these are medically acceptable guarantees, no one should wait for a single diagnosis for a minute or a week more than a medically acceptable limit. And we'll get that in order. But we will separate all these control, regular checks so that not all of our needy citizens who need urgent intervention because of the urgent situation. In other words, as you know, it will no longer happen as it happened last year that they invited a gentleman to a heart surgery at our big clinical hospital that waited seven years, and unfortunately died three years ago. That's not gonna happen again. Thank you very much, ma'am, for the very good question. It seemed like an opposition question when you were talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6135	Thank you very much. Ms. Djurdzica Plancic is the next representative to ask the parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6136	Thank you very much. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to ask Mr Milenic the Minister of Justice. Dear Mr. Ministers, the Law on Public Executors has caused a violent, negative impact in public since last year, or during last government. This government has delayed the start of its application, and as we see and have decided that this service is not needed, which is why you have recently been strongly called by public perpetrators. In public, there are some misunderstandings about how to implement this exercise, so please explain to us which direction the solutions are going to propose a new Implementing Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6137	Thank you very much for asking the honourable MPs. So, this personal calling thing, etc. I'm not going to get into that because it's just below some level of communication. What we're about to do is, the top is one complex, important element, it actually allows respect for the legal order. It is a difficult instrument for both creditors and debtors, and it is necessary to take special care in that segment. After the decision to postpone the application of the new Implementing Law and the Law on Public Executors, which should have meant introducing this new service and the new Institute, we joined the analysis to see how and what to do next. What we have seen is that, in fact, if the intended institutes and public enforcement services had taken effect, there would have been a complete disturbance in the conduct, there would have been an increased burden on the courts, there would have been certain cases where the executions could not be carried out, for example, in the case of perpetrators who do not have a residence on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, etc. But it doesn't really matter, it's technical stuff that can be arranged or not. What is important is that we believe that the performance at this point cannot be privatized. The conduct will remain in the court's jurisdiction, however, what is very important will be directed primarily through the financial agency. There is a law, so when we talk about amendments to the law, two laws change. One is the Executive Act, the other is the Law on the collection of financial claims because the payment through the Financial Agency works very well. It is necessary to do certain things in order to protect the rights and dignity of the debtors, we will change that. But what we're going to make as one of the most important changes is that the judgments, so once they're final, they're also going to be charged through FINA. Today is an unacceptable situation where you easily charge an account issued by a company or any other than a court ruling in which the case was conducted may be 5 years or as many courts have decided. Here to charge again, if there is no voluntary charge, you must go back to the procedure. That's what we're gonna avoid. What we will also introduce, which may not be popular but is important, fines, criminal penalties will also be charged through FINA. We have a very poor percentage of the charge, simply what is decided must be paid, the obligations must be carried out. And that's the message that, that's the basic principle we're applying. At the same time, we'll protect the debtors. What we're also going to do is we're going to introduce the Regiment Register. We now see very often in practice happening counterfeiting. So the debtors pay for something they don't owe, there's a double charge, etc. There will be a Regiment Register, as soon as it is verified in the public record office, it goes to the register, FINA cannot act if it is not in that register. Believers, they're going to apply for the payment of their demand that's actually automated and that's impartial, there's no choice, I want this, I won't, it's going to be done the same day. They will have to submit a particular form that will somehow protect the debtor again because it will guarantee the believer that he did not charge. This is important to us, and we are also thinking about whether to introduce special protection in the Penal Code, means to prevent further abuses that occur. The important change will apply to the movement as well. In practice they have no special economic value, they are psychological, they call for harassment, they enter the apartment etc. That's what we're gonna do to minimise it. And what is important a believer must become responsible for his actions, he must be active. The believer can't make a request, and now he's waiting for someone else to solve it. He must change funds, if he is not active, the execution will be suspended. So there's a whole series of other changes that I can't explain right now, but this is basically what we're going with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6138	Thank you, Minister. I'm pleased with your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6139	How we've been stalking each other so you don't have to get your word back. It's okay. Mr. Representative Zoran Vasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6140	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Dear Mr Minister, the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development and the Regulation on Direct Payments in Agriculture, it is prescribed that the payment of incentives for 2011 should be made by the end of June and 30 June 2012. In view of some objections sent to the Ministry of Agriculture, and I personally ask you to inform us of the dynamics of the payment of incentives and of the funds paid to our farmers so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6141	Thank you very much. Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6142	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague, counsellor. In accordance with the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, which you mentioned and the regulations, I can say that this Government has shown seriousness during the construction and adoption of the 2012 State budget, demonstrated its position, showed responsibility and said that all rights to support for farmers will be paid in 2011. As you yourself said, the legal deadline for the payment of the aid was at the end of June, but since our farmers during last 2011 received the last payment of the aid in the spring of 2011 and have since not received support for agriculture with colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury we have found the possibility in the provided funds in the budget to leave before the deadline with the payment of the incentives or support themselves. That's why for two reasons, because of our agricultural producers' heavy obligations and because of the better preparation of the spring seed. When we talk about numbers, we said that we would start with the end of the first quarter and in the period of 20 and in accordance with the submitted requirements and the unique requirements for support and in the period from 27 March to 6 April, two basics over 800 million kuna were paid, I'm talking about support income where we said we had almost 85 million kuna. And that's where we paid at a 100% amount of 82.5 million and of 12 thousand 631 applicants almost 12,200 were paid. These 3 million that were not paid were inconsistencies or invalid accounts. Currently, the agency is running a check on the accounts itself, and these days, there will be 100% pay-off incentives for income support. As for the single support requirements, we said that at the end of the first quarter or in the first part of the 4 month, we would pay 50% of the support and pay the rest of the support at the end of the 6 month. Here we talk of almost 90,000 requests totalling 985 million kuna, of which, after deduction of modulation, modulation of the legal obligation, talk about the amount of about 900 million kuna, of which 737 million kuna is paid for almost 78 thousand users. The rest of the users who haven't sat down with the funds, I'm talking about 11 200 users, part of them still didn't have the accounts properly solved, and somewhere around 36 million kuna. The agency is doing a check and payment by correction these days, and one part of the users are talking about an amount of about 120 million users whose obligations towards the state of Croatia, tax debt to the state of Croatia are much greater than the part that they need to get through incentives and they are in agreement with the Tax Administration or with the Ministry of Finance in some way on stand-up, stand by... the possibility of making a reprogramme of their commitments through the programme offered by the Ministry of Finance and then they will be paid off the funds of incentives. Unfortunately, due to the break-in of the deadlines for the submission of applications last year, the Agency for the Payment of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development could not handle all the requirements in time. So, for example. the payment for milk for December 2012 due to the movement of the period of application during the period 21.11., 21.12.2011 or to tov heroda by the end of February 2012 the processing of these applications was ongoing during the month of March and the beginning of April. The styles have been prepared and on Friday there is a payment of nearly 120 million kuna for heroes and 25 million for milk for December. If we add those figures together, it means that almost a billion kunas will be paid to our farmers in the course of March 27th to Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6143	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic has a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6144	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. My question was addressed to the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Jovanovic. In fact, a number of scientific recruits soon highlight work contracts and universities and institutes where they have worked so far do not have jobs that could offer them or do not have jobs where these people could work. I trust, Mr. Minister, that you will agree with me that it is unacceptable for the most educated young people in Croatia, the doctors of science to lose their jobs after putting a lot of time and effort into obtaining their doctorate or their education. And I must remind you that the Republic of Croatia has funded their education. What are you going to do about these most educated young people on whom the future of scientific, technological, innovation and then general development of the Republic of Croatia would not end up on the road? Will the new cycle of scientific projects also enable the recruitment of new PhDs and post-doctorates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6145	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6146	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Hajdukovic, the ministry is indeed a conscious problem that arises when the scientific money after its completed contract does not have the possibility of hiring at universities and institutes due to lack of scientific and scientific jobs. And that is why we have an intense dialogue with young scientists and with an independent High Education Science Union with universities to find the most qualitative solution. At present, about 2,600 young scientists are in the system of scientific recruits and their salaries are not questionable, and they will do their job by the end of the contract. What should certainly be emphasized when we talk about scientific money, that Croatia with only 18% of the highly educated in the working population is far from what the EU wants with 30%, that only 2.3% of the people involved in lifelong learning are far from 11%, the percentage that the EU wants. We only have 0.67% of science doctors in the working population, we only have 2350 researchers per million people, so it just shows how important it is to solve the problem you're talking about. The most acute will be around 500 recruits who are soon finishing their contract and who need to be given a quality job. We work in the direction of 7 initiatives. The first initiative, already on 15 February, was addressed to all universities where we asked them to report to the Ministry on the need for the development of staff in the university's constituents over the next five years so that, on the basis of these requests from the Ministry of Finance, they could ask for additional revenue in the budget in those five years and thus employ all the recruits needed. The second thing we decided to do was to change the Law on Higher Education and Science, the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science through which we want to ensure a new cycle of opening new scientific projects in order to create new jobs for scientific recruits. One of the ideas that will cause a lot of controversy, but the public debate takes place, we believe that all professors who have reached 65 years of age unless they have secured funding from projects or from their own university incomes should leave their place to young scientists who have acquired conditions for the docent. This does not mean that the 500 professors now in Croatia are forced to retire, they can stay in work after 70 years if they have implemented projects from which they can be additionally funded based on their work. The next very important activity concerns the Business Innovation Agency of Croatia where we have come to a completely different approach in the opening of new projects and financing of young scientists. We believe that all doctors of science who have completed the status of a scientific recruit should not remain just at the university. So the goal is to enable the doctors of science who have acquired such a top education to come into the public sector and the economy, and right through the Unity Fund to know, through funding projects in the economy, to get these young scientists to find a job in the economy and thus allow for faster growth of gross domestic product, the creation of new jobs, and that will also mean more money for science and for the university. And the last seven in a series of initiatives we have is that all young scientists want to be assured that they can go abroad for two years to the burden of the ministry or even four years without termination of the contract so that by adopting knowledge from the world's most modern institutes and technologies they can gain additional knowledge and then return to Croatia and apply it. Therefore, without any doubt investment in science and education is a top priority of this government and I am convinced that this government will know how to deal with all the negatives that have been linked to the neglect of science, education and universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6147	Thank you very much. Ms Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić is the next representative to ask the oral parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6148	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking the question of Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Mr. Minister, in March of this year, there was actually a serious injury to workers with the same aviation outcome of a worker due to explosions or fires and machines or drug mixes. Three days later, we also witnessed a severe loss with the fatal outcome of two workers in the circle of the Star factory during the cleansing of the septic pit. Also recently, perhaps 10, 15 days ago, a Croatian power plant worker was injured working on a power line. In January of this year, two workers died, one in Novska when digging, digging canals, and the other on the building in Zagreb. This data is certainly confusing, this data is certainly worrying, and statistics also suggest that around 30 people are killed annually, and about 150 people are injured daily. What are the factors for that? They may be of any kind, may be that they do not respect protection at work, from illegal employment, from inadequate or unquality maintenance of machines. I ask you, Mr. Minister, whether or not the Government can, by changing the legislation, lead to an increase in the safety of workers at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6149	Thank you very much. Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6150	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. We fully agree with you that protection at work in Croatia is something that we have not treated for the past 8 years in a satisfactory way and coming to the ministry and forming this ministry which, as you know, was part of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Pension System, we have found a system in a catastrophic state. Among other things, the European Commission has told us that protection at work and the Department of Protection at work at the Ministry should be raised to a much higher level than it has been so far. The word and number of the ministry are currently working on six people in the area, which is too little for what this area deserves. On the other hand, in Chapter 19 which regulates this area, we have reached an agreement to amend the Labour Protection Act and this law has gone into procedure and we have brought the law into line somewhere with 22 EU directives. However, when you look at this bill then you see that this law was done in a way that goes towards doing a variety of assessments about what are threatened at work, about that one firm, for example, that has 10 employees of office business, which has no major clear risk to work, has to bring about about 15 to 20 documents and see the devil, most of these documents can be outsourced, that means that you can rent a company that will do so for you. They just said it wouldn't be because we want those funds to be invested in estimates that the employer himself can make to prevent and focus on protecting workers in his workplace. Let me just take a look at the situation in that area. The law we've passed is a good law but inconclusive. We've got about 40 sublegal acts, we've got 50 existing regulations that some of them are older than me. Some have brought 950 and some years. You can imagine what 950 was like, and what it's like today. We therefore have a big job to do in this area, and together with the State Inspectorate, we raise the level of work protection in a way that labour inspectors and safety inspectors will do the same work. That means when the labour inspection goes she'll be doing a work protection inspection. When there goes the safety inspection at work, she'll also be doing a work inspection. Our desire is not only to be punished, but to primarily prevent the labour and safety inspection from warning the employer to prevent unwanted events. On the other hand, the ministry is under way to make a work injury register because we know that most of the injuries at work have not been reported and that we have much more injuries at work than they report. Those serious injuries are reported, fatalities are reported, but this part is one piece that can't be seen. Finally, we would like to invite all those who have something to say about this area, to mark the day of work protection with us on 28 April and to turn a new page in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6151	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar will ask the next parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6152	The question is to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. The purchasing power of Croatian citizens is falling. According to the GFK, 5011 euros per year, in kunas 3127 per month. It's going from 27 to 31. According to the International Labour Organisation, the average salary in Croatia is only $1756. The average salary falls three months in a row. The last drop is 30 kuna, and in the whole last year, it fell 0.8%. 22% of employees receive up to 3100 kuna and even 55% to 5000 kuna in net. Indebted citizens are growing. In the last year alone, i.e. by one year, the debt of citizens has increased by 2 and a half billion and is now somewhere around 128.8 billion. They grow and appreciate it for a little bit. January 1, 2, February 1, 3, March 1.5%. Gases in order of gas, water, electricity, kindergartens, waste disposal, municipal costs, public transport. And well, the executions are not in the price but they also grow by number and by volume. According to the macroeconomic projection you presented to the Parliament for 2012, your government predicted a fall in personal consumption of 0.3% in those 2012. You've fulfilled that promise in the first three months of this year. And now I ask what new limit you will continue to reduce labour prices and average wages, purchasing power and standard of citizens in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6153	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Prime Minister Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6154	Dear fellow Lesar, your job is of course not to spread baseless optimism in society. It's not a job or a government. The government's job is to tell people the truth. So, not to make them smile and think they're great, but they're actually not good. And it's not good. And I'm not asking you, I don't actually have the right to ask you for anything, and I'm not asking you to spread optimism. ... This was on. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So after this kind of thing, after hearing things like this, it really turns out we don't have any way out. I'm not a model or a merchant with false optimism. I'm trying to actually change from the state we don't justify, which isn't good, we don't point fingers at the guilty, we don't look around for them. We're doing our job. One proverb, an old proverb that has been transferred to Croatia, the coasters know it well, says "when there is no wind oar". We're trying to row. In the wind and on the tide everyone grew in recent years, everyone was fine until 2009. Everyone had a growth in consumption, they all went into major deficits smaller or larger. The world simply lived in an unreal picture. The reality is there, so there is no solution to these problems that you have cited that are real without economic growth. The prerequisite for this is the stabilisation of public finances, a stable credit rating for Croatia as much as sometimes antipathically sounds because it turns out that we work for others and others, and not for ourselves, and it's a matter of trust. The trusts we leave to our international partners, international financiers who are our partners. Because all countries except Norway and Switzerland have budget deficits even in Germany. So in this world we live. We'll fight to protect the weakest. It is this Croatian basic social model that we do not give, but the exits for Croatia have no economic growth, no specialization. Because small countries such as Croatia, it is clear long ago, and after the first contacts in Europe in the new status, especially clearly without specialization and focus on what is important we do not have. And that's the answer to your question, but it's actually not the right answer. The answer to the question you asked is no.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6155	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6156	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for making this a neoliberalism. When I look at the government's moves in the last three months, believe me, you remind me of that movie "Stefica Cvek in the Rs of Life" because you've really gone into more foreign banks, rating agencies, the International Monetary Fund and large capital. But my question is what's your new 2012 projection on the fall in personal consumption. I expect a written reply, and President of Parliament Šprem, as referred to in Article 182(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have two minutes to answer the question. Every minister automatically includes a time of 4 minutes. I don't believe that until now all the questions have been so much quote "complex" that it takes them four minutes to answer. The only one who answered briefly was the prime minister. Because it turns out if you suddenly asked someone what day it is to interpret that it is such a complex question that it takes him four minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6157	Yes, I'm obliged to give you an explanation now that you've already taken advantage of it. We'll have an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. You have, I know we don't, see how you're holding up the Rules of Procedure now. Some would like to change and still be there. So it says in the Rules of Procedure that a representative can ask a question within 2 minutes, so imagine now giving an answer for two minutes. But it says it can last two plus two depending on the complexity of the question. We thought we'd better go for four minutes to give one consistent answer, but not break it. Thank you very much. He has applied for the parliamentary question and has 14 in a row the right to be appointed by Mr. Representative Igor Cešek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6158	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, representatives of the government of the minister and ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the return of the nationalised, or kidnapped property that the communist government took after World War II and which was kidnapped by Jews during World War II?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6159	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6160	My esteemed colleague, in principle, according to the kidnapped property, is that what's been taken back is to be returned. But kidnapped, confiscated and nationalized is not the same. These are different processes and different procedures. That's where you mentioned the Jewish property. So, Jewish property is one thing, the key problem is that most of the Jews in Croatia during World War II took life. And for that is responsible one... who was even more advanced than his mentors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the war, this property could not be returned to anyone so that the small number of people who returned alive to the cities of Croatia, I am talking about the Jews, who were usually in the National Liberation Army, got their property back. However, in '48. Year to '51. For years, all these assets, regardless of their nationality and faith, were nationalised. I have to admit, I'm so ready to talk about it, I didn't understand the essence of the questions. So, the kidnapping was taken. It's nationalized. Confiscated. It's usually confiscated in connection with some kind of judgment for hostile action. So it's a few aspects, there's a Croatian state trying to introduce order in the last 20 years not with too much success. So here we are after 20 years where we are, going back to the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6161	Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Chesek's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6162	I'm not, absolutely not satisfied with the answer because it's still about pure demagogy. I call on you because in the last 20 years you have been talking about the return of property and everyone is pushing for it, even members of your corn coalition, or members of the parties to the Kukurik coalition, have deliberately advocated the return of property and land communities, and everything else, however, I call on you to show this ruling majority at least symbolically that you want to solve these problems. The best example would be for the president Ivo Josipovic to return the kidnapped apartment he lives in today, which he flew into in 1945 while he was liberating the City of Zagreb. And it is known that this apartment belonged to, or belonged to, one of the Jewish families of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6163	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Branko Bacic is asking a representative question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6164	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Mr. President, it's been a few days since the 4th month since you took responsibility for running the state and I hold that you agree with me that it's enough time for the government to assume responsibility for the state to declare important strategic projects, at least when it comes to infrastructure and important traffic routes. During the transfer of duties, a number of projects have been left to your government which... like the airport, like the Brijuni project, and I would mention 3 projects that are important for the life of Dubrovnik-Neretva County are the completion of the highway to Ploča, it is the construction of the Pelješko bridge or as I call it the Croatian Bridge and it is building a full profile of the highway from Doli to Osojnik, i.e. to Dubrovnik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to my information that I think is quite accurate is the construction of the highway to Ploč, so instead of the end of this year, I'm afraid it will be completed by the end of next year, it's been stopped from saying that you gave up building the Peljega Bridge, and certainly at this point you've given up building a full profile of the highway to Dubrovnik. I do not think it is good that at this point in time when the construction sector and the shipbuilding sector in Croatia are in a very difficult situation to give up those projects for which the competition has been carried out, for which it is possible to engage the same sector, while at the same time promising some other projects that are not yet in the near stages of realisation. So I'm afraid your first vice president, Mr. Cacic, will also promise that unless the investment cycle is launched in Croatia by the end of September that he will then feel responsible and resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6165	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6166	My question is that because of the suspension of these three important projects for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, for the city of Dubrovnik, which would get Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County out of traffic isolation until when will we citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County be in their own country of second order for not solving these projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6167	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6168	My dear colleague, you've asked a question that assumes something that isn't really true. So, the highway goes to the record, goes with the dynamics as fast as it can go, and that's where we stand. The Peljeski Bridge is the way you've conceived it we've criticised it and we've defined ourselves as an alternative for us to a smarter and cheaper direction, which is to connect the roadway through the Neumsko hinterland towards Dubrovnik. So as a strategic goal of the coupling, the buckles between the north and south of the county, that is, Croatia. That's the answer to your question. So I think we're doing it correctly, I don't think we're neglecting any part of Croatia. I think we're trying to be correct and just, so regional. I think we owe Slavonia some projects, too. So, all over Croatia. It can't be all in one part of Croatia. You're aware of some of my statements in the last month when it comes to some projects. There are important things and at this point a little less important things. Right now, perhaps one of the most important things is the buckle, the bond above Neum that we must negotiate with BiH. Of course, the Peljek Bridge in some ideal situation is an option. At this point, the situation is not ideal, so then we try to solve our real problems in a rational and acceptable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6169	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Branko Bačić responds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6170	Mr. President, I haven't asked a capricious question, and I'm not happy with your answer. No one would be happier than me if these three projects were to continue, and that's where you'd be the first to support them. However, you yourself are also aware that connecting Croatia's far south, with that buckle as you called it through BiH's space is for us in southern Croatia on a long, long stick. We don't know that route, and we don't know who would finance it, and it's not on us at HDZ right now in the interest of the neighbouring state. In your answer to Mr. Lesar, you said, "If the wind doesn't blow she row." I'll answer you in a similar proverb that says that "the boat doesn't sail as the wind blows, but as the sails turn." It seems to me that at the moment when it comes to Dubrovnik-Neretva County, you really turned sails in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6171	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Mateljan. Here's a lawyer's question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6172	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was addressed to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Regional Development and European Funds to Mr. Branko Greece. Today, however, there are high expectations in the Republic of Croatia from the use of EU funds, but we are equally witnessing that the use of these funds is very, very modest. So my question, Mr. Vice President, is what can the government or your ministry do to make this usability as much as possible because today when money is missing at all levels for many municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, these funds are the only chance to invest in development for investment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6173	Thank you very much. Minister Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6174	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you for asking. So you're right when you say that the current situation is such that the funds don't retreat with the dynamics and intensity that we would like. So these data we found at the end of 2011 were saying that the contracted part of the IPA funds that we were entitled to amounted to about 37% at that time and that the paid part of the money was about half of it at the same time. So cca 19% of the total location we could have at that moment. This is a serious warning, it is a red light that turns on I could say still in time, but when I tell you that the recall of the assets for allocation in 2008 where the time for the use of these funds was as much as 55% of allocation, then it already says that indeed the red light is on and that it needs to be seriously started in the process of restructuring the entire EU fund withdrawal system. What this government and the ministry have done so far is one action plan practically based on four key points. It's always a question of institutions and institution organisations, it's a matter of staff and it's a question of financial security. When we talk about institutions, we have raised EU funds to the highest possible level in this government. This means that we have also established a special ministry, or if you want the Ministry of Administration in the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds that will deal with this problem on a daily basis, that we have established the coordination of the government that discusses this issue every week, so it is always the same agenda, which is the state of use of EU funds in all the institutions involved. The other big deal is the staff question. At this point, we have about 350 people in the public sector who are in the weeds of business, so most directly related to EU funds absorption jobs. Even according to the criteria we have taken over in negotiations with the EU, the figure should be around 500 at the moment. So at this point we're missing about 200 people in all institutions when we know that this number of institutions is more than 10. 15 then it is not a large number of institutions and it is something that we must ensure through the restructuring of these institutions that we employ young, educated people who are willing to learn who are willing to work and more than 8 hours because it is such a job. And I hope that here, along with these programs that the Ministry of Labour offers, we will be able to reach these young people in a very soon time. And of course the third no less important question is finance. For the first time in the ministry, we have designed a programme of about 30 million kunas this year, and I hope to go to a public call next week, exclusively for the preparation of EU funding projects, for the first time. But we also called on all ministries to plan significant funding for project preparation next year in the budget. So our key problem is a project plan so one network of projects that would be available at any time finally prepared to withdraw those funds. And in that sense, I say here is our ministry and this coordination that I say will blow at the back of all those who are at the head of the institutions that are preparing projects for EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6175	Thank you very much. Nadica Jelash is a representative lady who has the right to ask a question now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6176	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer the question to Mr. Gordan Maras, Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts. I will remind the introduction that in the past, economic growth in Croatia has been based on consumption that has been better encouraged to say pump on the one hand by the sale of marketable dominant companies, telecommunications, banks, pharmaceutical companies, and on the other, it has also been pumped by furious borrowing. The current government, therefore, has a completely different concept of economic growth, a concept based on production, entrepreneurship, investment and, in this sense, in this really difficult economic situation, the government has a truly difficult job, which is the launch of a positive economy. It is known that the Croatian economy is, by its structure, a micro-economic economy, given the fact that over 80% of the total number of economic operators are just making up small companies, and that the government knows the importance of this particular segment of the Croatian economy and how much of the account with its potential confirms the fact that we have established a special ministry for this segment, therefore, the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship. Please, Mr. Minister, tell us what kind of incentive measures and projects you're thinking of helping these very small and medium-sized enterprises, so these small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, or what part of the Croatian economy can expect from your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6177	Thank you very much. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6178	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Jelash. Thank you for asking. Dear President of the Parliament. You have, unfortunately, noticed, in recent years, the last 10 years, perhaps even more, the Croatian economy has developed on one wrong concept of consumer, large deficit between imports and exports, on borrowings so that we have to change things. Unfortunately, for the last three years, the economic downturn has been over 8%, lost in crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises over 100,000 jobs, but in just the first 100 days, this government has changed the image of entrepreneurship and crafts in several ways. We have made tax discharges to entrepreneurs at an annual level of over 3 billion kuna, an investment plan that we have presented this year worth 2 billion and 400 million euros is twice as high as it was last year and it will be done by our entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Policy has also changed in payments. The government made a decision last week where businesses and craftsmen for public procurement will pay 10% of the advances, rather than, unfortunately, it has been quite a case so often that they never see money from the state when they work for it. And we also made the most favourable loans for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with an interest rate of between 1% and 3% through HBOR with the beginnings of 4-5 years, i.e. in tourism payments even 17 years. All in just 100 days. But let's go one step further, we've presented a plan to encourage a small economy, an entrepreneurial impulse with 24 programs. Public calls have already been published last Friday in the media, a 376 million kuna programme with which we believe that we will help over a thousand entrepreneurs and craftsmen in Croatia in a way that we make this money very clear and expect it to return to one or another in three years to the budget through increased employment, through investment and job creation. Also, next week we will present a new guarantee programme for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who will work for the Croatian small economy agency because you can have the most favourable loans, but if you do not have a good and clear programme quite often our entrepreneurs cannot get credit. We are also signing tomorrow, attending the signing of an agreement between a Croatian bank and a European Investment Fund where, in the micro-credit programme, we are helping... or fast-growing companies in Croatia, innovative companies with quality programs. [[You don't understand.]] 30m euros will be on the disposition and what is very important is the guarantee fund, the European Investment Fund guarantees payment and will again be very easy to obtain these loans. Also, many of the things we have launched these months we are confident that they will produce results in the coming years and that this trend will not be negative what I have said over the past three years in the economy of 8%, the lost 15000 crafts, lost over 100 thousand jobs will not continue but will be exactly the opposite. I'm sure we'll make it. Thank you very much for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6179	Thank you very much. Question has Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6180	Thank you. I ask the president of the Croatian government, Mr Milanovic. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I hold in my hand the documents that I will hand over to you after the current watch at the exit and do not want to do a show here in the House in front of the cameras since it is a very serious situation. Namely, here are documents showing that the Road Sisak, which was owned by the majority of Sisak-Moslavina County, was sold to a company with no credit, which was founded only for the purpose of the sale, so 57% of these stakes were illegally sold to a company with no credit, and after that, the company without real estate credit value of 150 million owned by Cesta Sisak signed under mortgage as a guarantee of repaying the loan. So, as councilors in the county assembly, we convened a special session of the county assembly and asked for that illegal decision to be annulled. However, you know that there is a seat of 14 advisers from the 10 county advisers Lovric who receive a fee of 5000 kuna per month to make these decisions and our initiative has been rejected. So, the county assembly's decision to express a request by the mayor, Lovric, contrary to the company's law, bought 57% of the stake, and then mortgaged the property of Cesta Sisak so that she could repay her loan to buy those shares. I would therefore still like to point out that 10 % of the shares owned by the general government remain. So I'd like to ask you a question, first of all, how you're going to help Cestam Sisak not to lose their property because it's obvious that the customer's intention is to reach valuable properties. On the other hand, since the Sisak-Moslavina County Assembly has made illegal decisions, the government has the right to disband the assembly if it frequently violates the law. And the third thing I ask you as president of the SDP, will you seek the political responsibility of Mayor Lovric for this... , an illegal and harmful decision taken by Sisak-Moslavina County. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6181	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6182	Dear colleague, I can't comment on what you said because I don't know. You of course have the right speaker of the county assembly to trade for this speaker as a parliamentary representative and to point politically at something you interpret in your own way. I can't get into the scale of the thing you were talking about. There's a law, there's bodies in charge of law enforcement, legal control, and I have to stop there. So, you use this House as a political speaker, which he is, it's your right, and if you're telling the truth, the procedure will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6183	Thank you very much. Answer, please, Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6184	Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I think 186 employees of the road are Sisak, I expected a different answer from you. At least I expected you to say we will investigate, we will investigate and we will inform you and the Croatian public. Unfortunately, you've answered me here that I've replaced the Assembly of Sisak-Moslavina County's pay phone with an assembly, which is not true. I purposely, conceived this question of my own, wanted not to hurt you, and not to take this as political accounts between HDZ and SDP, but rather as an interest in a company that will be in trouble and Sisak is burdened by problems. Here's yesterday we had a chance to see what 27 companies in the area of Željezara are facing. We have the case of HEPOS, we have the case of the departure of CMC from Sisak, and you answer me like this. This is really surprising. I must say, I am deeply injured as a citizen of the Sisak-Moslavina County for having responded to me like this. I'd like a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6185	Thank you very much. I think you've got a clear answer at this point as it might have been. Mr. Representative Franco Vidovic, attorney's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6186	Dear President-in-Office, thank you, dear Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to Mr Neven Mimica, vice-president of the Croatian Government for Internal and Foreign Policy and European Affairs. Dearly beloved, the Republic of Croatia owns a large number of so-called non-perspective phenomena. The smaller part of these phenomena is leaving to local self-government units and this is most often to achieve some social content projects. The audio agency, clearly with the government's blessing, eventually left these facilities to units of local self-government at their request, but with previously developed appropriate projects, and with proof of the financial means for the implementation of these projects, on a specific time limit. At least that was the case in the town of Sibenik, i.e. in the case of the realization of the INAVIS Maritime Innovation Centre in Sibenik which is the Croatian-Norway project. On the other hand, I think we're all aware of what huge potential these military, especially those located on the Adriatic coast, and also, I think we're also aware that it's high time to start that potential. Therefore, I would like to ask you whether this government and under what conditions it is willing to leave to the units of local self-government inspective military offices located in their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6187	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Unknown Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6188	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The so-called unspective military property, both by the number of real estates and by the areas it occupys, represents a really significant potential for economic development, as well as any other social development of local self-government units. However, this potential so far has not been used enough, has not been used to promote these very development processes. I say, the so-called unspective military property because it is basically the property of the Republic of Croatia that is given to the use and management of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. The process of using this property began in '92. When the Republic of Croatia took over 600 such facilities, military facilities from the former JNA, when after that, about 470 of them were given real estate for management and use, then through state property management processes around 280 such facilities were found in come today within the Agency for the Management of State Property. Only 93 such objects, unspectived military facilities have been so far since the beginning of the signs in these 20 years 93 such objects have been given to the use of local self-government. This government is definitely on the stand and has a policy and a clear programme to include such assets much more than ever in the economic development of local self-government units themselves. We want this to be part of a decentralisation process which is one of the primary and priority policies of this government, but we want that property to be placed in the function of that growth of investments, economic growth as a whole, so that, by calling on local self-government units to consider using these objects beyond what is today just for social activities or for, for example, the use of real estate for public purposes. We will agree on ways in which amendments to the legislation will allow these properties to be placed practically in economic development, in investment development either at the level of local self-government, or on total investment projects. So you've raised a question that goes beyond the number itself, this insufficient number of objects dedicated to using local self-government. We'll be heading towards an increase and practically all of these almost 200 objects that are still inside the auditions. Practically, this is an increasingly expensive potential for me to say strengthening decentralisation and strengthening investment. We can also discuss and discuss the fact that within the Ministry of Defence through the long-term development programme of the Armed Forces and additional facilities can be declared or found to be unprespective or unnecessary for the operation of the Armed Forces, and then they too could increase this number of about 200 objects that today have potential, and the government definitely wants to include them in these processes to strengthen the economic potential, the development potential of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6190	I'd like to thank Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm very pleased with the answer. Namely, precisely my city, the city from which I come, Sibenik is surrounded by dozens, with about a dozen military and they have so far represented an asset that has been constantly falling apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6191	Thank you very much. Before we continue our work, let me just tell you that the session of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development is held in half-two at the Eugen Quaterniks Hall 233. I'll also let you know that we're halfway there. By all accounts, we can finish 15 to 2, if we go as we did by now. Then we'll have a lunch break and then we'll continue the work that I don't think will last until half past five, five so I can have some other committees sitting down so tomorrow we can continue at half past ten. Representative Damir Rimac. Here you go, Mr. Representative, your representative's question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6192	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to raise the question of Defence Minister Predrag Matic. Given that I come from Vukovar-Srijem County where the war was the most fiercely known is the fact that many Croatian defenders despite the state's efforts to solve their housing problem still have not solved this housing issue. It is also known that a large number of them live in illegally built residential buildings i.e. in objects without a valid building permit. In fact, through the legalisation of illegally built objects, one part of these problems would be solved but there is a problem of compensation that Croatian defenders of the vast majority cannot really pay. The question I am giving you is, can the state help Croatian defenders in a specific and specific way to solve these and such problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6193	Thank you very much. The Secretary of Defense, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6194	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for asking. Namely, you know that the Croatian government and the Ministry of Defence are actively caring for the problems and needs of Croatian defenders. One of the bigger problems that we are facing is the housing of Croatian defenders, mainly those not covered by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, so non-suffering and disabled people of the Homeland War. In view of the upcoming Law on Legalisation of Unlawful Buildings, we have sent a proposal to the Ministry of Civil Engineering that Croatian defenders should be provided that this is their only facility and the first facility they use for housing to be released 50% of the amount of payment for the legalisation of these facilities. And here I am pleased to tell you that the Ministry of Construction and Minister Vrdoljak have given us full support and have shown great understanding of this proposal and I believe that it will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6195	Thank you very much. A representative question, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Milanovic. Dear Mr. President, it has been four months since your appointment of cca it doesn't matter now a day more or less, since the first session has been three months or 100 days, my question for you has been in the first session whether you want to help Požega-Slavon County since it is in an extremely difficult situation. And you told me yes, but at the same time I asked you both orally, and so did my mayor in Požega-Slavon County in writing to answer if you wanted to see us to explain the situation in which we are. I know you're busy, but it's been 100 days. To this day, we have received neither written nor oral agreement. I remind you that Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's past government has also helped the Požega-Slavon County with 19 million kuna. So we think your answer is important, positive or negative. I ask this because 80 thousand people in Požega-Slavon County know about this problem and without the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia can't function, and if there is no help in a very short period of time, the end of Požega-Slavon County is on sight, and I don't know if we need problems, protests, proofs via television. So please try again to find time, organize a meeting and receive people and this county that is in an extremely difficult situation. I'm not asking you to solve it completely, solve it in part, so next year, and I don't know how to solve it for the next few years. At this point, it takes a little help to keep working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6197	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Milanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6198	My colleague, if what you're saying is true, I apologize to you if no one has answered you. So we'll sit down and talk. As I apologize to your colleague Shanteku if my answer has been cold or ignoring, but I assure you it has not, that was not the answer. And I have to defend myself against that kind of thing and I'm not gonna let it get me into this kind of controversy. I simply can't behave differently and please, it's my appeal to you before I answer you, that as in the past four years or five years on this side of the assembly, there are no charges and insinuations. That was too much. And criminal things and other things. Let's not do that. But that's my appeal. As far as Požega-Slavon County is concerned, you have seen that from the first day when it comes to budget reserve we have a slightly different approach. The budget reserve according to very strict criteria is deployed in the open part of the cabinet session, not in the closed part of the cabinet session. When available with a budget reserve you always discriminate and arbitration. You give someone and you don't give them to someone. Of course there are requests and pressures, justified and less justified than our party partners. I assure you, I am as analytical and cold as my associates. So, the deal for the meeting stands, but that doesn't mean that this government will favor anyone politically because it belongs to this camp or to anyone else, because it's from the HDZ or any other party. They won't, and that's not what we're doing. So I stress the transparency available to the budget reserve. She doesn't deploy at closed government meetings. Where things are being arranged, we talk about it in public, so let people evaluate whether we are right or wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6199	Thank you very much. Representative Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6200	Mr. President or the assistance of the previous government has not been to a closed session. So I'm not talking about open and closed sessions. I only ask you once again to really show this government an interest in helping Požega-Slavon County and not solving its problem entirely because it is impossible to solve it entirely. I just want to hear from you help that these people deserve so much to be helped, not to solve the situation in Požega-Slavon County because it's impossible to solve. And the question of how much longer will it take for the government to solve this problem, but I'm asking you a minimum of it to help make it work, you know? That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6201	Thank you. Agent question, Mr. Representative Dinko Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6202	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The issue is Economy Minister and Prime Minister Radomir Cacic's first vice-president. What the Minister of Economy and the First Deputy Prime Minister intends to do in connection with... the price of electricity and fees for using the space of power plants that are income units of local administration? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is noted that energy prices are only lit up over a period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6203	Excuse me. Mr. Representative, I'm sorry, here we haven't been able to hear what you are, if you can repeat this again, let's start over.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6204	You got it. Here's a question for Mr. Radomir Cacic. What is the Prime Minister of the Economy's first Deputy Prime Minister planning to do with the harmonisation of electricity prices and charges for the use of power plants that are the income of local administration units? It is noted that public lighting energy prices increased by 28% only from 2006 to 2009, and with a new increase planned they will be almost 50% while the cost of the power plant space fee has been fixed for 20 years and its real value relative to the electricity price has been halved. And given the unfavourable... the opportunities for income are even more reduced. Some municipalities and cities that receive compensation for the space of power plants are not able to pay even public lighting costs through this calculation. This situation is unsustainable for local units in which power plants are located. That's why I expect the Deputy Prime Minister to take some steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6205	Thank you very much. First Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Radimir Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6206	Thank you very much. I've talked about it a few times. Short in Europe, except for Croatia and Slovenia, there is no other government that thinks at all that it should be put into the role of defining energy prices because it is a question of the market when I talk about gas and oil, and directly then electricity in the segment as much as it depends on these prices that I was talking about. Unfortunately, during the government of Ms Kosor in 2009, the Croatian government made such a decision that is completely inappropriate and has no real relationship with market relations. I guess, and I expect that we're going to change that because we're simply putting ourselves in a position where we have nothing to ask for it to call on us for prices that we can't in any way influence. But what you asked, so this first part of the question of what the prices were growing, the prices of whether the Croatian government should have no significant effect on any of this law, nor on the future, nor on the past could it be. But this second question is completely affected. I personally raised that question a decade ago, ten years ago, I was 8, I was rejected with the same request. You're right, this should be considered, and those standards of compensation should be corrected in the direction you're looking for. That's what we're going to consider and that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6207	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6208	I thank the Vice President, and I expect that measures will be taken... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6209	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh has a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Mr Ivan Vrdoljak, Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, above all, as representative of the 6th Election Unit and Turopolj, in which several thousand citizens are extremely interested in the subject of legalisation of the facilities. I will remind you that the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings has been passed and is in effect for 8 months. A large number of citizens, especially those who have been building out of trouble and who have built for their own personal and existential needs, are very interested in implementing this law, and on the other hand you, as minister, are announcing after 8 months, which is in force to amend and supplement the law. My question is, should we change and supplement that law, or what are the effects of the current laws? And how much, according to the law passed in July 2011, has so far been accepted for legalisation, and how many have been settled under the existing law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6211	Thank you very much. Minister Vrdoljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6212	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs and MPs. So 8 months of the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings are the exact data from 15 days ago 7 039 submitted applications. The assessment is now new that we have 300 thousand objects that have been illegally built in this country and then it is necessary that we have gone urgently to changes to the existing law. It's a good thing the law came at all. It is good that the market and the interest of the citizens are touched at all that we know to what extent and which direction we can change the law. The law is already in public debate. But it is good to know you, as well as Croatian citizens from this place, that we have examples of where interests are shown under this law which is now in force and, let's say, the worst example is Zadar County 1 369 requests for legalisation and, in 8 months, the Administrative Department for the implementation of spatial planning and construction documents in Zadar County refuses to solve any 6, which means that we will very soon during and accept this law, and then even during the realization, we have to arrange administrative departments in cities and counties dealing with spatial planning and construction documents that issue permits and that even when the demands come they do nothing. And that's what the inspection today is about in Zadar County, and we're gonna wait a few days to find that inspection surveillance. And believe me, many mayors and mayors who do not form their departments to monitor the implementation of this law and the needs of Croatian citizens will come under inspection supervision and all those measures that follow. So it's good to say today that we're looking at step two. The amendments to the law are coming. We won't have 7,000 demands in eight months but probably 100 grand. But if some counties and mayors have organized a job in a way that in 1,369 requests no one is resolved, it will no longer be allowed in this country, and that is what I want in response to this question to distract attention, and we are coordinating the profession, we are talking to all the chambers, all the associations, we have opened a public debate. Today is the round table in Varazdin County, we go all over the county. The material that is on the website that is in the public debate is open to all your suggestions and suggestions and be free to contact to make the law as clear as possible, as simple as possible and as fair as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6213	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6214	I'm pleased, Mr. Minister. And I'm taking this opportunity to appeal as well. This law as it was proposed last year and in the direction that you now want to correct it has noble intentions, but do not allow it to remain in the grips of red tape, rather than actually allow for its implementation not only legalisation in terms of introducing order into documentation but legalisation in terms of introducing order in space, and that also means strengthening the real estate market and the possibility of economic development because one large part of the objects that are being done here are economic purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6215	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic, agent's question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6216	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I would like to ask the President of the Croatian Government, and before asking questions, I must react as a representative in front of... The beginning present on our... [[The speaker doesn't understand because the microphone malfunctions.]] Since we're doing stunts on the Rules of Procedure, [[The speaker doesn't understand because the microphone malfunctions.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand because the microphone malfunctions.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6217	I've already concluded, we'll change all the microphones by next session, we can't take this anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6218	It just doesn't work today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6220	From the beginning, I've been following the government's and government's reactions. Since we are proposing acrobatics in the Rules of Procedure, perhaps in the future that government members who do not have to be asked the question don't have to be on the topical clock because first of all you talk, laugh, chat, write messages and don't listen to MPs' questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6221	Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6222	My question to the Prime Minister refers to how you explain... Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6223	Please ask a question. And you said yours, so now you've heard. ... Please ask a question. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6224	So, Prime Minister, as you explain the big blow to citizens' pockets with frequent electricity, fuel, food, and the fact that the same thing has been accumulated by the introduction of VAT to 25% and that Croatian citizens can expect your government to move beyond fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6225	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Milanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6226	Obviously... If I tell you that I've already tried to answer a question like this but there's no answer to that. [[He doesn't understand it because of a loud announcement.]] It's a question of which you suggest disintegration, fear, confusion. I can't blame you for that, nor have I the possibility, nor am I as pretentious as I think you're pretentiously warning people of their behavior, but that's your right. So we row, the wind is gone, the tide is gone, the circumstances have already changed, we are struggling to preserve the Croatian social model of an expensive and inefficient state that we are going to make expensive because the modern state is expensive, but effective, efficient, quality, in which people will get a quality service, in which there will be jobs, where young people will have a lower unemployment rate than in some EU countries, today it is terrible. And so I welcome these measures that are not Croatian fiction, that young people, especially highly educated, get a chance for at least a year to gain some kind of experience. It's all already been seen, you understand, and none of us here have invented anything magnificently new. We're applying things we've seen before, and of course you've got to have a little bit of luck in all of that. The world is in crisis but it will not be an excuse for us, so in this crisis we are looking for our place and we will fight for Croatia to move, to start growing, to move into some slightly larger investment. What the former government started, and we can take over, it's a little bit, we'll take over, we won't point a finger at you. As you can see, we're not calling you for anything. You don't exist to us in that sense. As men and colleagues in the Parliament, we'll talk. But please, I can only appeal to more mobile issues, more mobile political issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6227	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6228	Mr. Prime Minister, the question was quite clear, as you explain the gatherings. You spoke completely differently in this assembly five months ago like you did today, and I have to be represented, that's my right, to admit that in the last 100 days you've spoken a little bit, a little comment, and that you've acted as First Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6229	Please, you have the right to your opinion, but I don't think you should exaggerate. Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić is a representative issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6230	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Croatian Defence Minister, Mr Matic. In October of last year, a tender was launched for the award of scholarships from the Croatian Defence Fund to children of Croatian defenders, Croatian defenders, children of the dead Croatian defenders. In November of last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision, or agreed on a proposal for a decision by the Management Board of the Fund on the allocation of 1/3 of profits for 2011 just so that the competition in question could be realised. The Fund’s Management Board decided to be the source of scholarships for the 2011/2012 school year. due to reduced profits achieved in 2011 compared to 2010 reduced from 1000 kuna for students to 700, and for high school students from 400 to 300. So all the necessary decisions and preconditions were made to ensure that the tender could be realised, i.e. that 15 thousand of those who applied to the competition would find out who will receive the scholarship and who will receive the scholarship. It's April 18th, so we're practically at the end of the month. It has been six months, and yet no child of the Croatian defender has received a scholarship. What's the reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6231	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, thank you very much for this question. Namely, you have established everything exactly and the only reason why it has not been realised so far is the report by the fund manager, that is Erste Invest who told us last week that the dividend is as much as on scholarships, scholarships from Croatian defenders, children of Croatian waste defenders 44 million kuna, that is, the whole third that should go for scholarship and foundation. However, since the needs of this data that you've presented are 75 million kuna, and we have 44 million in total, we've decided to give all 44 million for the scholarship of children, and here's what I said last week we got the data, the documentation is prepared, and by the end of the month we'll start paying off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6233	Thank you very much. Here you go, Agent Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6234	Thank you. I'm not happy Mr. Minister with your answer because what you're saying is simply not true. There is no need for any report by the fund's asset management company to go to scholarships. I said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had made a decision earlier, or agreed to redistribute the estimated profit for 2011 and therefore could have long begun to pay off the scholarship. It is regrettable that children of Croatian defenders must wait for the end, practically the fourth month or the beginning of 5 months to make funding for the school year, and the school year is at the end. It is obvious that the ministry has not done the job as it should have been done, and probably the reason the Fund's Management Board was formed only in the third month. So, three months after taking responsibility for running the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6235	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Boris Blazekovic's parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6236	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Minister of Culture, Mrs Andrei Zlatar Violić, and it concerns conservation departments in Croatia. Croatia is one of the few countries in the world with such a large amount of historical, cultural monuments. Many Croatian monuments are included in the world or European cultural heritage. Croatian citizens and citizens are rightly proud of their cultural and monumental heritage and rightly expect adequate protection of these priceless cultural goods. The number, across Croatia, has been deployed conservation service of the Ministry of Culture, but there are also a number of objections to the obstacles that our conservators place seem often to be without real professional bases for many potential investors already present, cultural activities and employees. Madam Minister, how conditionally normal business of various entities and various investments are influenced by principles, often too strict and state-of-the-art in conservation departments in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6237	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6238	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I would like to start by saying that the conservative service in Croatia is indeed organized according to local principle. So there are 19 separate institutions at regional level and private institutions in the city of Zagreb which are not under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture and has its own independence. We have indeed witnessed for years that tensions arise between local government conservatives and potential investors, and very often within the profession between conservatives and architects. As a first step to make the matter transparent, the Ministry of Culture published a register of all cultural goods in Croatia mobile and immovable some month ago on the websites. This is about 94% of what can be published since private collections and underwater archaeological sites have not been published since it is simply not allowed by law. In a case that has now been created by every investor just clicking on a computer, so the program can see where the space he's interested in is. So whether it is preventive protection, whether the facility is protected individually or protected as a whole. Our next step is to start the investor in agreement with if, therefore, it is engaged in the construction of a space or any object in which there is a monumental heritage to obtain the precise and precise technical conditions necessary for that investment from the beginning of conservation departments. According to our assessment, if it is especially about tourist investments that are on the coast the largest and most often actually penetrate the monumental heritage, we believe that the monumental heritage in the tourist complex is just a gain for this tourist complex, because of course the monumental heritage is one tourist destination. In general, conservation services must rise in quality. There are all unfortunately regions, mostly central Croatia, and to put it this way: Licko-Senjska County, which are sub-capacitated. So, we are aware that we need to invest a lot of education in certain services and that it is particularly important to cooperate with the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Ministry of the Environment so that these measures that are currently operating would be restrictive and that all future large investments would actually take care of how to protect the environment so as to protect the monuments of culture without in any way disrupting investment cycles.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6239	Thank you very much. We can move on. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol, attorney's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6240	Thank you, Mr. President. I will refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Milanki Opacic. Dear Madam Ministers from your ministry are coming to us with announcements of changes between the other and the Household Act. What interests me is that you explain to us perhaps a little bit more in which direction these changes will go especially if we have a large disproportionate view of the number of possible foster parents when it comes to different parts of Croatia. On the other hand, what has been shown for years seems to me to be a chronic deficiency and inadequate professional assistance to people who are engaged and want to be foster parents, and of course it is probably in our best interests that all these changes ultimately go towards a better, better quality position, or care and protection of children who are in these foster families, so I would like to ask here further clarifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6241	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Vice President Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6242	Dear MPs, a working group, therefore which was primarily composed of representatives of foster organizations ended up with an amendment to the Household Act. These changes will go towards protecting what we call traditional foster care. In fact, previous amendments to the law have taken up the possibility of about 50% of foster parents doing their job because they have put a very high limit, which is that they have to have a high school. Unfortunately, at this point, many are transferring that activity to their children who have higher education or to their husband, however, they remain in foster care. So we haven't really done anything but satisfy the shape anywhere. So it's not in our best interest to satisfy the form. So we'll protect traditional foster care. On the other hand, we will really provide these people with a different kind of help and education because they have so far had an education that has been imposed by some others, so parts primarily from the ministry. But they never wondered what their needs were. It should be said that it is children who are placed in foster families who are highly traumatized. So it's not about children coming from ideal families that are stable. That is why, unfortunately, it is going to be taken away from their basic family. So children who are very highly traumatized and are hard to expect from foster parents, even if they are highly educated to know in every situation behave and respond adequately to such children. Therefore, we will organise for them a professional support of a particular education that they will in some way create and tell them what they need. And on the other hand, we will try to make one, so let's say continued support where they will always be able to turn when they have problems with children and with their quite high traumas. And on the other hand, I have to say that the fact that we in 4 Dalmatian counties and Licko-Senj County have almost no foster parents is that we only have some related foster homes, the fact is that all campaigns and actions so far have not produced fruit that increased number of people deal with foster care, which means if we follow a trend of deinstitutionalisation that we have to find some other ways there that we're going to move our children out of institutions a little bit and provide them with adequate care that won't be institutional. But here's because we don't have foster parents and we can't expect any increase we'll have to look for other solutions. So this foster law will come here relatively quickly before you on the constituency benches. We will open a very quick and public discussion through the web pages so here I expect that very soon we will be able to discuss here in the first reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6243	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6244	Thank you. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister and I hope he won't answer me again with the story of rowing in two pairs, fours, eights with the helm, without the helm. In just over 100 days of your mandate, it has been shown and proven that the Croatian economy is sinking into a new and larger economic recession, industrial production in January fell by 4.9% compared to last year and in February by 5.2. And it's obvious that we're falling into the abyss without being able to get out. A 25% VAT has been raised and it is becoming a brake for the development of the economy. If this is added to the constant rise in fuel prices, the announced collection of electricity normally with this and the gas, the steady rise in unemployment currently amounting to nearly 350 thousand unemployed, and even electricity production itself recorded an annual decline of 15%, it is clear that neither you as prime minister nor this government predicted such development of events, nor does this government have adequate answers for this situation. Meanwhile, a number of government decisions have also contributed to reducing citizens' support for this government. Instead of decentralisation, the recentralisation of Croatia has been introduced, the construction of the complete Corridor VC through Slavonia and Baranja has been stopped. There are certainly a number of other questions that this government has not answered, since the abolition of the Archaeological Museum in Osijek, the non-resolvement of the birthplace in Đakov, the state ergele in Đakov, the silence of the Croatian administration and the competent services related to the raped women in Vukovar, and finally the SDP's abbreviations have become through the law on engulfing in various ministries we give our jobs. So I'm asking you, since you're also the president of the Social Democratic Party, or the party, and you said that when you think about leaving these neoliberal political ideas and restoring the practical trust of citizens that this government can take Croatia out of the crisis, you reduce the number of unemployed, increase the economy? I also think that I deserve an answer because here's a short time for me to set everything up, and this government hasn't given an answer yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6245	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Milanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6246	Thank you, dear colleague Vinkovic. I will not answer you by saying what I have already said – fiscal stabilisation, minor deficits are decisions that are not easy to make because the budget is big and people's expectations are huge. This government did it first ever, unfortunately two years late in one cycle, and we don't think that's why we deserve the Nobel Prize from the economy. It's just a matter of decision. The things we do with shipyards that aren't yet, it's not over yet, it's a matter of decision. Don't you think that every one of us would love to have people clapping at him and kind of raising people a little bit, but that time has passed. That time we watched, that time you watched, you criticized him loudly, sometimes harshly, in vehemently. You'll criticize us, too. I'm willing to live with it. Meanwhile, we must fight for trust in the international market and we must ensure conditions for growth in Croatia. So there are positive examples of small countries that have escaped from the crisis and we are not any neoliberal government, we are the Government of common sense, Government of civil rights, Government of the social model, Government of dialogue, Government of a new European practice in Croatia, Government that will not only speak, they have told us that and we have to do this, but the Government that will go to Brussels and other cities and say that is Croatian interest when it comes to strategic companies, when it comes to all that we see as Croatian interest. Now, that's what some people used to say before me. That's what I'm saying. Citizens will evaluate who is telling the truth and who has good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6247	Thank you very much. Agent Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6248	Of course I'm not happy with the answer. I will not ask for a written answer because the citizens of Croatia are looking for concrete measures and a better standard. Not for a year, not for two, not for three, but for the next day. But this is how I'm going to quote to you, or paraphrasing a philosopher, one great philosopher Schopenhower who said that every new morning is a new birth, every day a new life, and every night or night a new dying. So if these 100 days of the Croatian government are one morning, and they seem to have a very dark day ahead of us with heavy rainfalls, and the night is obviously going to be a long dark night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6249	Thank you very much. A representative question from Mrs. Vesna Fabiančić-Krisanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm referring my question to Mr. Arsen Bauk, the Minister of Management. It's a list of voters. For years, we have witnessed an unsettled list of voters, a number of objections, which cannot be settled. As far as we all know, here I will say just one brief example from the area of the town of Velika Gorica. We have a village called Gornja Lomnica, we have a street called Petra Preradovic, which ends with number 30, and on the list of voters we have 46 that does not even have 9 voters registered. I believe that Velika Gorica is not a lonely example and that there are many such examples. Since in a year local elections await us, of course, it is in the interest of all of us that there is no doubt about the manipulation of the election, that this list of voters is being settled. So my question is Minister, will we soon introduce the voters' list and what does the ministry do about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6251	Thank you very much. Minister Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6252	I hope Mr. Lesar agrees that this is the answer in at least four minutes. So there is a constitutional provision that all Croatian citizens have the right to vote. Croatian citizens have even more than there are people in the list of voters because some of our countrymen have taken out their housekeepers but have not further regulated their statuses with their ID card, passport, etc. So they're technically citizens but they're not in the voters' list. All those who, of course, have documents that have taken out where they have a registered residence are listed in the list of voters. Also, all those who come to the polls and are on the voters' list have reached their legal right to vote, and those who are on the voters' list and do not come to the polls do not influence the result of the elections. That's the first four sentences to be said. We must therefore clearly define the problem. It is not a problem that someone is on the list of voters because he is a citizen and has the right to do so, but rather the problem is where he is on the list of voters and where he is exercising his right to vote. In elections organised at national level, it does not have a major impact on the result of the elections and on the regularity of the elections, as they would all have the right to vote somewhere. But in local elections in certain units of local self-government, this fact has a decisive importance to the regularity of the election, and when we look at it from that aspect, then the elections in some units of local self-government are definitely illegal and irregular from that aspect. The problem is therefore in the legal solution of the Law on residence and residence of citizens and together with colleagues from the MUP in whose jurisdiction we are preparing a new Law on residence in which mechanisms will be made easier for the competent state authorities to verify the truthfulness of the data submitted by citizens at the time of the reporting of the residence that after the truthfulness of these data is established we will implement the measures to delete from the records of those who do not really live in that place and thus that the number of voters in the Republic of Croatia is reduced to some logical frameworks and comparisons with the number of residents and the consequence will be that there will be an increase if these people report their regular logical residence where they really live, which is most often abroad, would not be the difference between the number of voters and the number of inhabitants. As far as this particular example is concerned, if it is only a mistake to make a false address, but that these people are really physically present in the area of the town of Velika Gorica, it is only a wrong number, it is one thing, if it is a false application to a false address, it is, therefore, already under the current law that they can react and I believe that the police will then examine it and will act in accordance with the law and that irregularity will be removed. What we've set out for the goal is for the next local elections to be much more regulatory than in certain units of local self-government, so that the number of voters generally corresponds to the number of adult residents with some minor oscillations but not that we have more voters than adult residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6253	Thank you very much. Representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev is a representative issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6254	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to refer the first Deputy Prime Minister to Mr. Radiir Cacic. At the 11th meeting of the 23rd government, you presented a new investment cycle. You announced that through April and May you will open hundreds of public tenders for new projects and investments and thus announced and gave hope to thousands of unemployed who could find their jobs there, and as you said hundreds of Croatian companies would provide jobs in the next period. By bringing in the state budget, we have seen that you did not predict 50% more for investments, as you have already announced on certain items such as. The development of coastal infrastructure facilities is even 70% less at stake and the realization of these start-ups. You plan all the funding on the basis of private capital, according to the public private partnership system, and we know that these preparations last up to 2 years. We also heard you say that very few projects are ready without the necessary permits. My question to you will you keep your promise and open up to 1st June hundreds of competitions to enable all these listed and Croatian companies and unemployed to work? Will you agree on funding by 1 June to prepare for the implementation of work on a number of investments that have all the necessary permits, meaning building permits, confirmations of the main project, implementation projects, etc. Because numerous such projects are from our Sibenik-Knin County area, can I say that only the city of Vodice has 9 such permits for 8 different projects since the construction of the sewer system, the sports hall, the recovery of the dump, the completion of the library that is currently worth 200 million kuna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6255	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6256	Thank you very much, ma'am. So, indeed, at the government meeting, we put forward a project to strengthen the investment cycle. The fact is that after we have made a deep insight into all the programmes and all the projects of all the companies in Croatia that are on the budget or out-of- budget connected to the government, we have received a clear picture of how an additional 2% drop is projected, so there was an additional 2% drop in all their projects, and there was no growth, we gave a clear order to all companies to increase their investment by 50%, and that's what you saw in that programme. What is our basis for funding is, among other things, over a billion euros of unused credit lines that have already been approved or budgeted for Croatia, and nothing has been done about it. The example you're talking about is, let's say, very good, 75 million euros on Croatian waters stands because no one has offered projects at all. So that's what we're changing here. Once again, one such eclectic example is the EBRD. The EBRD has a budget for Croatia of 400m euros, 380m euros were used in 2010, and 160m euros were used in 2011... So I don't need to explain. [[You don't understand.]] We have one terrible drop in investment because the government simply did not show any ability to offer projects at all. So we're changing that from the ground up. And indeed, all these big projects, all the projects that are ready to go into this moment's negotiation. What you're asking me are hundreds of small projects, that's what I said it would be by June. It is currently moving, the financial model is closed, the EIB has approved us for this, 50% in general, and 75% in energy projects, and within the next 10 days, the first 50 projects in energy efficiency are moving dozens of projects in education and not just education, so building new schools in public-private partnerships, in hospitals, in the judiciary and everything else. It's all going into the contest by summer, like you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6257	Thank you very much. Ms. Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6258	I think we're all gonna be happy.../The speech room's off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6259	Thank you very much. Ms Natalija Martincevic, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6260	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament. I would like to ask my first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy to Mr. Cacic. Therefore, whether the changes to the tariff system announced by the Ministry of Economy will indeed jeopardise investments in renewable energy sources as some of the media have claimed in recent days and what the amendments actually want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6261	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6262	Thank you very much. Indeed, I said earlier, the government of Croatia and no government essentially in Europe and in the world can have a significant impact on basic energy prices, but it can absolutely affect energy incentives. At the basic energy prices, Croatia has agreed by entering the EU to obtain 20% of energy from renewable sources by 2020. Renewable sources are paid 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 times more than these standard energy prices that often call us why we don't stop them. Standard prices cannot be stopped but we can define how much we will pay additionally more renewable sources. This was paid until yesterday and up to 9 times the base price. The price of basic energy is 44 June, and we, for example, paid 3.89 kuna at some renewable sources, so 9 times higher and all of Croatia's citizens paid for it. Who was getting those super profitable contracts, almost nobody. Whoever got it and why got it, it's not my job, it's probably someone else's gonna deal with it. But when we talk about what's been published in the paper as a big title you'll stop completely, the government, Cacic, will stop the total investment in the solar system. The solar system is very interesting to you, in 7 years, how many projects there are to promote renewables you know how much the total is realized, 500 kilowatts, 1 million euros. And it says in the Vecernji list a 500m-euro project will be stopped. So now if in 7 years they have realised a million euros in this country we will stop that million euros. I mean, that kind of media nonsense really needs to be avoided. What we're going to do now, we're going to give tariffs that are eligible for European tariffs, we're going to give tariffs of which our lowest is going to be equal to Austria's highest so that no one can say that we're not competitive, but everyone who gets the licenses will get a network connection, they'll all get subsidies for renewable sources. So, yes, we're going to raise that investment with this million as much as it has been made in what we really need in the last seven years, and we need 1250 megawatts, not 500 kilowatts, and 1250 megawatts is... a billion and 700 million euros. [[You don't understand.]] That's how much we have to invest by 2020 and we're going to do it with these new tariffs. So, yes, we're going to open up the investment space strongly and we're all going to be transparently and hasty procedures because we're shortening procedures important, some of us already have the permits to avoid previous and subsequent, so about a third we're cutting license time, we're completely open, the new model goes into the frame, now it's public debate, the new model goes within 7 days to the government and they're all welcome with their... In particular, they will be stimulated with these incentives for renewable sources that will reach and now up to about five times the standard price... [[You don't understand.]] , will be especially stimulated domestic but not domestically in terms of domestic Croatian but in terms of region manufacturers, and these are usually Croatian simply because they also have some damage from such which in the visor, which in sound, which in some others, later in recovery because after 20, 30 years and you have to repair it if you have a solar power plant, if you have wind power plants that will be amortised, should be removed. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, these potential damages from renewable sources will be further encouraged through domestic producers. Here's the model.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6263	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ilija Filipovic, attorney's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6264	Thank you for your word, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am directing my question towards Mr Zoran Milanovic, the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because this response, which will be given by all Croatians Mostar, I underline Croatia, will see why, and all the gravitating areas, especially entrepreneurs, small, large and medium-sized business people, because we have no other way to do this important issue, important for both the Republic of Croatia and for Croatians living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask what is being done and how long it has been in preparation for the re-establishment of the regular Zagreb air line – Mostar which is an important prerequisite for the success and efficiency of business and any other cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. If by any chance something has been done, and we don't know it, although this question is on some kind of waiting, please, Mr. Prime Minister, encourage the Resort Ministry. Therefore, public companies that are in majority Croatian ownership and airport and carrier and other relevant state bodies for the shortest time to establish a regular Zagreb air line – Mostar or Mostar – Zagreb with sleep in Mostar. We are prepared to participate in these costs that the crew is moving to Zagreb early in the morning and to do, so the business that needs a businessman in one day without sleeping in Zagreb to return to Mostar. The diaspora has dealt with this in an adequate way, so by direct lines of Zagreb with areas in Europe and outside Europe via ocean flights and connected with the queen of the country, she connected with Zagreb. But Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats, who are only an hour away from Zagreb, remained without a direct line with Zagreb in 2003. It is one of the great damages especially in raising, therefore, the economies that are in expansion in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and mainly in Croatian spaces. And that line would mean a lot to us especially because the airport is owned by the city. And that's why I point this question to you to wake up all those who can do something about it to do something about it. So, Mostar residents, two Western-Herzegovic and Herzegovic-Neretva County, so from all the gravitating areas expect you to run this thing from a dead end. Very short [[/Intruder President: Please ask a question for three minutes. Don't be mad, but it can't be anymore.]] I'm done. [[/Intruder President: You're asking a question for three minutes. Here you go.]] I think I've said enough. The question is quite clear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6265	Thank you, Mr. Representative Filipovic. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6266	Dear fellow Filipovic, I will ask around and you will receive a written reply. However, I must tell you that during my stay in Mostar it wasn't exactly a topic. The airport was once mentioned more along the way, while objecting to being bypassed by landing and use, which is why some flight control procedures are not in line with Eurocontrol. But the very theme of establishing a direct plane line between Zagreb and Mostar is not open. However, as I said, I will ask around and see why it was abolished in 2003 and why it was not restored. In fact, we have a relatively small country with problems when it comes to Zagreb. For example, links to Brussels, which of course is not the Croatian capital, but is an important city when it comes to a national airline, are least said inadequately. So they're destimulating for work. Therefore, you know that flying costs are high and there has to be some kind of economic calculation, although if we implement a policy of assistance and support then some things cost a little more but they have a meaning. I see it primarily in education investments, higher education, in mind, in knowledge, in health care, in medicine. So, in those large projects that the Bosnian-Herzegovina, as well as the Mostar and Herzegovina Croats hold together and make them a compact and competitive community. The issue of the plane line, so it's not something that's been discussed as a priority, but since you asked that question, you're going to get a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6267	Thank you very much. Here you go, Agent Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6268	If you'll just let me, so there's this question, I accept you have a good intention and I understand why you're not on a short visit to both Sarajevo and Mostar and Shirokom, so talk about these things. I received full authority from both the mayor and the Prime Minister of the County of Herzegovic-Neretva and Western-Herzegovina, and I asked this question. And if you'll just let me have one more sentence. I didn't accidentally post that. Let it be part of the answer of a colleague who has asked you why you have visited only Croatian spaces. It is not known that the traffic and economics of Sarajevo are therefore linked both to Ankara and Istanbul. It is not known that Banja Luka is connected to Belgrade, via Belgrade with Moscow and the entire Russian Federation. So the Croats, as a constitutional and creative people, have no connection with the world. They have to get in the car to get to Zagreb. We have an airport in Mostar. Here's my request, and please make sure this thing starts from a dead end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6269	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Seks, Agent Question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6270	Thank you very much. I would like to refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Dear Mr. President, in the neighbouring country, there is one rehabilitation of the Chetnik movement and Chetnic ideology, and the judicial rehabilitation of war criminal Draža Mihajlovic is in action, and I think that these very dangerous movements and movements in neighbouring Serbia are not just the internal thing of the Republic of Serbia. Because in World War II, this criminal ideology has also caused massacres in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, slaughtering in Dalmatia, in Lika, not only against the Croats but also against the Serbs. It was a criminal ideology on the doctrine of the great Serbia, based on genocide cleansing, ethnic cleansing by both Serbs and anti-fascists, Croats and anti-fascist Serbs on the Karlovac-Carlobag-Virovitica line in the Homeland War. Under that Chetnik cocardine, huge atrocities were committed especially symbolic in Vukovar when under that cocarda those Chetniks under that song "Free Send Salads, There'll be Meat Smacking Croats". So I think the issue is not only the internal issue of the Republic of Serbia but also that it affects Croatia and Serbia's relations, that it also affects stability. There is a repercusion in Croatia and in all of this area in Southeast Europe. I'm asking you what your position and opinion is, because I haven't seen it yet, I haven't noticed, I may have missed what your point of view is to that attempt at historical, auditistic pretensions through ideology and through doctrine and... Chetism. What is your view of the Croatian government and your personal view of these very worrying and dangerous phenomena? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6271	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6272	Thank you, dear colleague Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My opinion on it is extremely negative. I convey it in my talks with my colleagues in Serbia, with whom I have been a acquaintance for many years, who have been in power. They say it's a matter of court, that they have a negative opinion about it too, and that it is a court procedure that, realistically, I would have neither in Croatia nor in myself nor in myself, so I believe neither you because the courts nor the judge have no influence. And that's all I can say about it. So, I don't approve of it, and I think it's a bad thing, I find it an escapist, cowardly approach. And when it comes to Chetnic ideology, there's no such thing as ideology, it's just one evil practice. When it comes to Chetnic... the character and it's thin because the Germans didn't even trust them because they fought at the Battle of Sutjesca where the Partisans fought the occupiers the Chetniks were disarmed. And they were disarmed because the Germans didn't believe either because they were afraid of British and American landings, and the Chetniks were obviously not trusted allies either. All in all, regardless of who was the victim, especially in World War II, it means more than the world, and it's clear that it might be a little overrated ideology that it doesn't have because it was too complex for them and for one bad practice. Well, I hope I didn't say anything wrong about it. Unfortunately, we may think a little too much about all these topics and talk about Bleiburg, including the victims of the crossroad. When I say too much, again that I don't get misunderstood, so to anyone who's lost someone it's a tough subject, but it drags us down as a weight all the time. So at events in Serbia, I don't have influence like you do. I can express my reserve, my skepticism, my dissatisfaction with that. It is a court case in Serbia and, therefore, just as we expect to be treated when it comes to judicial proceedings, so I have to do so to others, but I will always say in the conversation that I do not approve of it. So it was an evil practice, it was a failed movement that he had, I'm going to point out once again that we don't overestimate it, no ideology and only one very, very evil practice that no one ever believed, not even the real allies had.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6273	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6274	I'm partially satisfied with your answer. It is not only a question of judicial rehabilitation of war criminal Draža Mihajlovic, but in Serbia, the laws of Chetniks are even with anti-fascists. They've got the same rights as the Partisan movement fighters. And what you said was on Sutjesca and Neretva, it wasn't the Germans that disarmed the Chetniks, but the Partisans beat them to the punches. So it wasn't the Germans who disarmed them, it was someone else who beat them up. Secondly, you see when you say it can be difficult to influence, I agree with that, but you see how when Serbian President Tadic asks us not to mark the day of victory, the day of the Storm, there you should report the same, you must react to it. Because it's the same in one correlation. And the current top of Serbia's policy is basically supporting and agreeing to such rehabilitations, and it's not just a practice, it's also a criminal ideology.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6275	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic has a representative question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6276	Dear President of the Parliament, I ask my question to the Minister of Health, Mr Rajko Ostojić. In the summer of 2010, then Minister Milinovic, the minister who was your predecessor, conducted the process of joining Zagreb hospitals without consulting Zagreb. He added as one example to the children's hospital Klaic's Vinogradska hospital and at the time Zagreb was concerned because, given all debts in health care, which were later confirmed, he asked and could be prevented from doing so. This was later resolved by a technical co-operation agreement between Vinogradska and Klaic's children's hospital. When it comes to children, when it comes to children's hospitals, Zagreb was rightly concerned. The Constitutional Court's decision to bring hospitals together without consulting the City of Zagreb was declared an unconstitutional procedure. You announced a new network of hospitals and announced the merger of part of Zagreb children's city hospitals to the children's hospital Klaicev. I am interested in whether this merger process will be done in agreement with the City of Zagreb, so how does the European Charter of Local Self-Government, as well as the Croatian Constitution, so will the hospital merger process be done in accordance with the Constitution of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6277	Here you are, Mr. Minister Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6278	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Attorney Bernardic. So the truth is, it's unequivocal and zoning proof that the last few years, even in the government, even in the ministry have been illegal. You know if the Constitutional Court makes such a decision to you means it's unequivocal proof that it's been done illegally. Yeah, you're right. Klaic's decision yesterday, by the Board of Directors of KBC, was the beginning of a procedure for the separation of Klaic from KBC. At the very least, in politics, you have to be credible, and that's what our plan 21 says. It says we have to have a National Clinic for Children's Diseases. At the end of May, 60 years of the Children’s Diseases Clinic are celebrated. Just the last two years, we haven't had a children's disease clinic. Knowing your work as a representative of the City Assembly and knowing your sensitivity, in the end, and now that you are the first man of the City Assembly, I have no doubt that in negotiations with the founder and owner of the Children's Diseases Clinic, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the other 3 children's hospitals covered by the City of Zagreb, which are Srebrnjak, Goljak and Puljevic, you will find common language. So, as I have answered the previous question of what I can guarantee, I can guarantee that nothing will ever be done illegally or unconstitutionally in the Ministry of Health again. I expect both founders and the Government together and, of course, the City of Zagreb to find a common language, and for the benefit of our children and to provide in one place all the variety of health services, which is prevention and public health actions, diagnostics and therapy, and third not less important to him and rehabilitation of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6279	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Josip Djakic has a parliamentary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6280	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. I refer my question to the Minister of Finance, and since he is not then his deputy Mr. Lalovec, and it refers to the 20th session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where the agenda has been removed, and there has been a proposal for the payment of incentives for one-year leases proposed by Minister Jakovina and the Ministry of Agriculture as Minister of Resorship for 90,000 farmers who will now be unable to achieve incentives. And the current paid incentives that you selectively paid for by your decision at the Ministry of Finance say there are no criteria or no money. I would ask you, Mr. Deputy, to answer my question why did you take down that agenda item, insist that it be not at this cabinet session, given that the optimal dates of sowing and incentives that should be used for the benefit of our peasants? Is this how you are aware that the failure to pay the incentives brings new difficulties to our farmers, the reduction of production, the untimely seed that will harm all of Croatia as well as our peasants? Is it possible that you are taking advantage of an import lobby to make as many agricultural products imported into the Republic of Croatia as possible? It's a question I'd like to hear the answer to since 90,000 peasants have not been solved just because the item on the agenda was removed from the 20th session of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6281	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I don't know if you have the right information, but today Mr. Tihomir Jakovina was talking about the cost of encouraging farmers. The position of the Ministry of Finance was that those who actually owe the state that we were actually going to a breakthrough or compensation. For your information, it means over 800 million kuna in the last month has been paid to farmers. So I'd like to ask you to actually talk about specific data. So we'll do it if you need it in writing to whom it actually went. And the Ministry of Finance's position was clear that we would not pay those in debt to the state. You must know that debts to the state must be paid, that debt means when we compared our farmers' databases that the debts to the state were over a billion kunas. I'm now asking you if it's the state that's going to pay for it and not take the intention of protecting itself to protect the state budget? So your question doesn't really stand because over 80, 90% of farmers have been paid in the last month, it's been paid in that amount that the Minister of Agriculture Jakovina said. And the position of the Ministry of Finance is to introduce order on the market means not only to farmers but also to other entities that are in debt to the state will actually have to balance that debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6283	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6284	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So I can't be satisfied with your answer since I strictly said that it was 90 thousand farmers who were to be dealt with by a one-year contract or agreement with local self-government units with incentive measures. That's the problem I want you to answer in writing. If there's not enough money in the Treasury, then I don't think you can even pay the money to the private banks that you're resuscitating as you did for the Central Bank, you've handled with state money through HBOR. We therefore consider it necessary for farmers to achieve incentives and it is not true that you can stop the payment of incentives since they are legally strictly intended for better agricultural higher quality and higher quantities of agricultural products. And by the executive law and the executives that you stopped in your functions, you could have forced the tax debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6285	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6286	Dear President of the Parliament. I have a question and I ask the Minister of Agriculture's answer, and as regards the suspension of all started and implemented procedures for the award of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia in the Istrian County where the Ministry of Agriculture is located, and before the adoption of both the first and second instructions of the Ministry of Agriculture, it has already given its consent to the units of local self-government that are waiting several months from the competent institution for a positive opinion on the draft contracts which, on the basis of the instructions, require a harmonisation of culture towards real culture on the ground. This topic is really important and important because the issue of land allocation is a fundamental restriction for all those who both seriously and professionally want to deal with agriculture. The issue of land allocation does not allow them to run according to EU funds, which means a loss of funds. Croatia has potential and wealth in agricultural land because Croatian agricultural land from other European countries has uninfected agricultural land. Croatia is today and tomorrow should become an even more attractive tourist destination, and food production and its placement through tourism can only be our great comparative advantage. The issue of food, the issue of its production is becoming more and more important, and I'm afraid it will become an increasingly pronounced problem at global level. I believe that the possibility of starting and implementing land allocation procedures is for the reasons mentioned above not only an important economic but also a social issue. Since I know you've spent a lot of energy communicating with all relevant entities to solve this problem, I am asking you this opportunity for your position and I have a question. When a unit of local self-government can expect to get a positive opinion from the competent institution on contracts because it is important not only for them because they have implemented the procedure and procedure, but for all those citizens who are waiting to be granted agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6287	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Sponza, what to say. The problem with the availability of agricultural land has been something else for a number of years burdening the Ministry of Agriculture as well as all agricultural producers in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the law in question, the Law on Agricultural Land which, back in the 10 years, experienced a number of changes and complemented the basic and circular problem with the agricultural land supply model is that this law makes land available to local self-government units. In view of all this great centralization in all other forms of the state that has been marking the way this country works and manages, and one important... Like agricultural land, I dare say by water and forest. [[You don't understand.]] The national wealth of this country should not have been given in such a responsible way by the management of local self-government units because most of the municipalities and cities had neither technical nor material-financed or human resources to do the job in a quality way. Most colleagues and the largest number of fellow mayors and mayors and their city councils have done this job well and I do not wish to say for a moment that they are the ones who have stalled the agricultural land. Although there was a problem with the adoption of the programme of availability I see great responsibility in the ministry, I see in the Agriculture Land Administration which was responsible for these affairs, but also in the Agricultural Land Agency. In 2009, the Agency for Agricultural Land, appointed director, was appointed administrative council. We had even one quite handsome and probably for the anals example that we had a director of the Department of Agricultural Land at the Ministry, a board member and a director of the agency appointed in the same person. Unfortunately, this agency has done nothing for three and a half years, and according to this and your question and the law that I have quoted, if we look at Article 59, which says that the units of local self-government were obliged to make available programmes, and the units of local self-government that had brought in the programme of availability, and they have not begun to dispose of agricultural land since 31.12.2011, they cannot do so anymore, but these jobs move to the Agricultural Land Agency. When we speak that date, and for this reason we referred from the ministry's guidance, we only wanted to help our municipalities and cities in interpreting this article of the law not to make new costs, new competitions because any competition that would be announced after that would be as such and void. For all those competitions that have been published, we are talking about the termology and the explanation of the concept of availability to agricultural land, all those municipalities and cities that have announced the competition and taken all those actions that, after the announcement of the elections, sent to the ministry for consent or similar action, will be settled under the applicable law. Those that are not transferred to the Agency for Payments of the Agricultural Land Agency. The Agency for Agricultural Land is set up and has a director, has employees who have been transferred from the Department of Agricultural Land and has been very active in doing their job which should have been done back 3.5 years. When we talk about items and the availability of agricultural land, we cannot be satisfied in any way. If we're talking about the county you're from, the state land is somewhere in the area of 24 thousand hectares, of which only these 10 years with 5000 hectares is available, or 18900 and some hectares are still subject to availability. It's something in this procedure that you said, so local self-government units have taken over, called a tender, done the whole tender procedure, sent decisions to the ministry's consent, and here we have eight such cases to consider and decide on the ministry itself. This is now being done by the Agricultural Land Agency together with management staff and will be resolved positively or negatively as soon as possible. We also have four cases at the County State's Attorney's Office in Pula, which unfortunately refused to issue consent on the lease and sale through the invitation to tender, I believe that the city of Umag, Buje and the Municipality of Grignan. We are in line with the additional clarification, but also with the additional control, because we are doing all the decisions that were related to the available programme or the competition that we received on consent we have made double control, we have also looked at these four competitions, we see no reason for refusing or not giving consent to be available. We have sent a letter to the County Attorney's Office in Pula to review these tenders in question again, and unless there is an obstacle to issuing a positive opinion that as such... These 8 cases that are being solved will be resolved within the near deadline, and these nearly 19,000 hectares which are subject to the Agency's disposal will have much to do in accordance with the law, what they need to do. [[You don't understand.]] Our goal is to put all agricultural land into production as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6289	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6290	And that's what my ministry and I will personally, but the agency and all the professional services will be working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6291	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6292	I thank the Minister for the answer, I am satisfied with the answer, and I just want to point out in the best faith and the intention of Mr. Minister because we know that the Law on Legalization of Legalized Objects is in the process and I believe that everything that has been started and everything that has been received means all the competitions that have been opened by your resolution ministry so that it would be good for people to be introduced into possession, not that first of all, the facilities are legally built on agricultural land, and that those who have really yellow hands do not come into possession of agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6293	Thank you. Three more MPs have questions. The first is Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. My question was referred to the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Radimir Cacic, and it concerns a terrible failure that has been happening to us for years in the history of the modern Croatian state. It is nautical tourism and the shortcomings we have in this segment of the tourism economy. In fact, we are witnessing the recent years of continued increase in the number of vessels in the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia during the tourist season, as well as the fact that this does not follow the corresponding increase in the number of berths in the marinas, i.e. in recent years we are witnessing almost abstinence in that part of the investment. Except for one of the bright ones is now in the town of Sibenik, a marina for the mega-yachts of Turkish investors is being completed. The thing is, it was a forgotten project that was almost covered by dust, and it was called an argonaut. You, as the minister of the day, worked seriously on the idea. Unfortunately, its realization has never occurred, and the fact is that this year we have clear announcements and indicators that there could be an even more intense increase in the presence of foreign boatmen due to the reduction of security in North African countries in the Mediterranean due to the crisis in Greece. Due to the changes in the tax system of the Republic of Italy, our marinas have daily enquiries about the possible acquisition of a binding place. All the studies have shown that we have thousands of links to shortages and that we actually have a perfectly clear need to raise the number of places and start investments in that part. It is also a fact that we have great losses because a large number of vessels during the season have no opportunity to contact the mainland and consume services of tourist activity, trade and all others that are in their disposition. My question is whether the Government plans a more systematic approach to building binding capacity, port of nautical tourism, or whether it intends to simplify the procedure because it has proved that the current procedure is too complicated and that we are suffering huge financial losses, i.e. we are missing both investment and profit from this tourism sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6295	Thank you very much. Here's Deputy Prime Minister Cacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6296	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The truth that this is probably one of the most potent areas of investment, economic and certainly crucial leverage for quality, quality development of Croatian tourism. The fact is that we have completely ignored the times of Ante Markovic and Veljak Barbierija's general concept of development. He was wandering around, sorting things out. But one solution, one move, one procedure like the ACI, which was absolutely in Mediterranean terms and also a broader example of how the country can predend, so that the quality of the country with 1000 islands can be valorised. After that, we did nothing, even in the ACI which is the state and which is the most valuable Croatian space, manages the most valuable space. And the prime minister was already talking about it. The government is in the position that it should be and that it should be used. In the campaign we talked about the necessary shift towards mega yachts simply because after the 30, 40 years of today's boat is no longer reduced to 6, 7, 8, 10, 12 meters. Today, the standard is 20 meters away. After what happened in Italy, and we know what these reflexes have on pressure in fact on ties in Croatia, after the situation with countries... All of our chances are still significantly increased. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to do something about it and we want to do something about it. He's at the Parliament these days, today, tomorrow is the Agency for Competitiveness of Investment. In a joint performance with the Ministry of Tourism in defining the strategy of what we want and tomorrow, of course, including everywhere, and where ACI is needed, and where it is not an ACI then local and regional self-government go proactively, we go to design projects to fully define spatial and financial and then offer projects on the market. So, not to wait for projects to be born, but projects to prepare and offer especially in the nautica. It's not just about the boat, it's about golf and some other stuff. But the nautica is certainly one of those spaces. We were talking about a dozen marinas that we're going to have with mega yachts that we're going to start in Split I remember talking about this specifically at the coalition rally. The truth without some of our great merits, some of them have moved. Here's Sibenik, Dubrovnik, techno me intending to do it. So we're not really, we can't say that we're very responsible. And Catherine's monuments end up with all these obstructions that are almost incredible, and even when the state sets its own legs, it sees the cases of a conservative lateral mind that happens. We do everything to prevent investment, but in the end, I think that the government's strategy will be broken that investment is necessary, that economic growth is an assumption and that our rowing has a very clear direction. Without economic growth, there is no social policy, no social state, and the framework for this must be created by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6297	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6298	I would like to thank the first vice president for his reply with one comment and note that the biggest obstacle other than spatial plans is the biggest general obstacle not only in this part of the maritime economy but in the general maritime economy, the existing Law on Maritime Goods, which, if it doesn't change urgently, I don't think we're going to be much further in speeding up the procedure for the outcome of all necessary papers. Because he has been the biggest obstacle to all experiences so far, and I am personally pleased that the government is interested in this problem. Because it's exactly my Sibenik area that has one of the best perspectives in that part and has an interest in investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6299	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ante Babic, attorney's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6300	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the respected Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. In recent times, it has been known to you and the public through the public announcement of the blockages of the municipality of Podgora, and the same fate is expected in the municipalities of Brela, Stari grad on Hvar, Supetar on Brač, Živosce due to compensation for damages to landowners seized during communist rule, means the former state, and for the construction of tourist facilities in the areas of these municipalities. Of course, by privatising these tourist companies, income has actually been given to the Privatisation Fund, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Logically, it would be normal and morally, in fact, that compensation is paid by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is not a big problem for it by looking at these municipalities with an extremely small budget. So the question addressed to you, as well as to the esteemed ministers in the Croatian government, is how and how you will help these municipalities, but also by making sure that something similar in the future does not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6301	Thank you. Prime Minister Milanovic will answer. All ministers won't be able to.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6302	As far as the second part of your question is concerned, we're going to disable it so that there's no more kidnapping and confiscation, so we're going to make it possible. Because all that's happened is the result of confiscation, that is, a variety of seizing property. You asked me what we're going to do to make sure this doesn't happen in the future. So, I was talking here about the legal mess that has been present in Croatia for the last 20 years. And we ourselves often jump into our own mouths with our own laws, deny certain provisions of the Constitution. He spoke to his colleague, Shakespeare, about examples from Serbia. We also did not celebrate when some of the legislative decisions in Croatia are about which they go directly against the Croatian Constitution. For 20 years, we've been... some status issues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you said obviously you know more about it than I do. I see you're interested in the problem. That's where you listed municipalities that are different political colors. So obviously you have an interest in the phenomenon. I can only say that I will take this seriously, that I will consult with my associates and that you will receive a written answer. Because I can't compromise on this subject with you. You know more about it than I do. And I can only say, therefore, that what was taken illegally should be returned with one emphasis here, so of a purely principled nature, what was "taken" under the supposed signs after World War II was nationalization by either confiscation which is a rougher form and which has other legal consequences and today on the tenants who entered that space. The fact is that after the war, no matter how many injustices were committed to former owners, this property was not robbed but was either placed in some social function less or more effectively or was divided into officials, workers, etc. Our poor girl. But injustice was done, and there was no work. We've been fighting for 20 years to set some kind of order, and we've advocated as strangely as it may be for you to think that the left is behind the line and that we're behind it, and we're going to try to spend it. Not to be too long, I understand your question. We will see what the problem is, see what is the legal and just solution, and answer you accordingly, or act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6303	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6304	Well, I'm partially satisfied with your answer. I say partly for a few reasons. According to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, they are hardly able to go bankrupt. So it takes these means to function urgently, not only for public lighting, for municipal equipment, but also for voluntary fire companies and for preparation in the tourist season that starts in a month, and they need to do so. On the other hand, citizens of these municipalities, but tourists as well as the Republic of Croatia, suffer direct damage because it is a tourist destination such as the Republic of Croatia, and in the end I think it is very ugly to watch and read in newspapers and portals that tourists in such tourist centres with those lamps go to the waterfront which is certainly not good. So that's why I'm asking you because it's not some big problem, and that's why we'd help these municipalities is that not yesterday, not today, but here's after this plenary session with members of your government make the most of it to help these municipalities because the tourist season has already begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6305	Thank you very much. And we came to the very end as soon as we finished with the last parliamentary question, and that is the question of Mr. Representative Zeljko Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6306	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. My question was meant for Mr. Branko Greek, I see he's not here I suppose the deputy is here and he'll be able to give an adequate answer. I would like to know if the information is correct that the Law on Special State Care and the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas that were in the special relief regime for citizens and the economy will be abolished from summer. These funds, thanks to these laws, have significantly contributed to sustainability and development to local self-government and would be at stake by eliminating them. Directly and indirectly, the aid cost the state about 1.4 billion kuna. If the previous finding is correct, I am interested in the criteria by which undeveloped areas will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6307	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Curlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6308	Mr. Advocacy to the abolition of the law which you have stated the Law on the mountainous and mountainous areas and the Law on areas of special state care will not result in the abolition of the law but from the substitution with the new law. This is the Law on Supported Areas, which are based on the Law on Regional Development adopted by the Croatian Parliament about 10 years ago. It is then an obligation to create a single Law on assisted areas as a substitute for these two laws because the basic criteria are the degree of development of units of local self-government, regional and basic and that this law applies in a way that substitutes these two existing ones. The development criterion has been established, and it has implemented the degree of municipalities and counties in such a way that the municipalities are divided, i.e. determined in which group they belong. Those below 50% of the Croatian average, those that are between 50 and 75% of the development and those that are beyond that. The municipalities are divided into three groups. The two first groups are scheduled to be covered by this Law on Supported Areas, and by the county only the first group to be least developed. So there are professional criteria. The law is in preparation, in design. He will come after the debate at the Croatian Parliament. I can only say that it will be done in a way that does not undermine the areas that we have helped so far by the state, but the fact is that the part where the criteria of development are established that there are municipalities outside that area that fall under what is said to be the name already undeveloped and in these areas there are municipalities that are beyond that level of development. There can be a difference. But that is why it will be at the debate in the Assembly after an expert debate and only by its adoption are these two laws on assisted areas and mountainous areas put outside the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6309	Thank you very much. So, we're done with the current morning. We'll continue to work, I'll tell you now as I read the item on the agenda, and that's a proposal to show Mr.sc's trust. Sinishi Hajdash Doncic for his duties as Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister at 3:15 p.m. Thank you very much. We're going to the 1st item of the agenda, which is 1. Proposal to show confidence, Mr.sc. Sinishi Hajdash Doncic for his duties as secretary of maritime, transport and infrastructure. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia submitted a proposal to show confidence to Mr.sc. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic for his duties as secretary of maritime, transport and infrastructure. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, to take his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6311	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. A colleague, Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic, has this special position that unlike the other ministers in the Government of fellow government who was confirmed here in the Parliament in the vote of confidence, the government collectively discuss him individually. That wasn't the case three months ago. And so all in the future if there are such cases. I hope as little as possible. When I say I hope as little as possible then I also think about what happened to my colleague, Zlatko Komadin. Unfortunately, Zlatko resigned for health reasons, and those reasons were enough for me, and I, as his colleague and party colleague, was aware and eventually resigned. We're just getting started. It has been 100 days and the government's programme is known and its realization is under the watchful eye of the political opposition, all interested in society. Therefore, it is up to counterpart Sinishi Hajdash to continue to make a sharp move, so that she hanged it hard. Sinisa Hajdas Doncic is a politician, and this is a true politician who chose confidence in the direct elections in Zagora in Zagora-krapina County where he was elected mayor of 2009. That experience that doesn't really have many of us. This requires a certain set of circumstances and, of course, certain knowledge and talent, both ultimately and happily. Sinisa Hajdash is 38 years old, so he is young, has a respectable political experience for Croatian conditions until now. He has a fiery baptism in politics, he is an economist, in front of a Ph.D. but seriously no kidding, in front of a real doctorate, teaching at some high schools and universities, and has great experience in the work of the Development Agency, so he is a good knower of EU funds, very good. These are all in addition to his political qualifications, which are important in the political government. These are his professional qualifications that should tell us and suggest that this man is good for this job. What's he gonna be like? What are we all gonna be like? Now, that's another chemistry. When they asked an ex-president what kind of president would then be the candidate, and then the future president, and he didn't want to be direct, then he said, "Listen, nobody was ever ready for that." Until he tried, and until he was elected, he didn't know what kind of president he was going to be. And if he's been vice president for eight years, he doesn't know what kind of president he's gonna be. And so it is before us, it is unknown. So, I urge you to give support to a member of the government, a minister of maritime, transport and infrastructure Sinishi Hajdash Doncic. He's got a hard job ahead of him, a serious resistor, one specific resort, so it's not a classic state administration. That's what a series of integrated systems need to know how to run it. That system was a ruckus with problems. There were also corruption in public enterprises, at least that's how many indictments suggest. All of this puts before him a serious task and a challenge. So he's expected a lot more from what we've seen in the last four years. Of course, results are expected. I'm not going to say that in the last eight years there have been no results, but it's a matter of price and efficiency. Now we're in a difficult time, our priorities are strategic, we're going to build what we can find the financiers and what's important to us. What is less important to us, I stress less important, not completely irrelevant, is that we will not build it because as reasonable people and masters we know what priorities are. It is my message to all of us to be at the height of the task, to defend and recognise Croatian interests, and to be local patriots as needed. It's not a bad emotion either, but it can't be dominant. Thank you and please support Sinisha Hajdash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6312	Thank you very much to Mr. Prime Minister Milanovic. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain first appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6313	Mr. President, Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Sinisa Hajdaš Doncic has been proposed and will be elected new minister and it is our turn to confirm the same. It's clear that someone can talk about the former minister, it's my fault that he's not still a minister, from my constituency coming, he was first on the list and I respect that. So Mr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, we Istrians would say it that way. If Mr. Sinisha took his wife's last name, and the Istrians say it Doncic then that's how they pronounce it, and I absolutely, 100% support and respect it. I wouldn't do that, but well, I respect that. But, well, it doesn't matter now. However, I am reporting precisely for that local patriotism the prime minister was talking about. What I'm interested in when we talk about this ministry, when we talk about roads, it's not the only thing, but what I'm most interested in is the construction of the Istrian Ipsilon or the continuation of construction. It is the largest investment at this point between 250m and 300m euros. There is no greater I will not say priority than there is no more willing investment in the Republic of Croatia or Istria. Why, because that's where the funds are secured. It's about that by 2015 we can fully engage so first of all an Istrian operation like so far, someone's going to call it localpatriotism or something else but okay, it's going to work there 1,000 people, it's not for underestimating. If we do that, we've solved the issue of the existence of this operation in three years. We've got Bujik, we've got a concessionaire who's been setting up all his duties neatly so far. I said 300 million euros, that's cca 2.5 billion kuna. 50% of that money is always going towards the state, so the state here is making a lot of income. And what's most important will be run along with the construction of that stock and some accompanying content. I should also be honest and also say that in 2011, so before this coalition came to power, it means in just one year in Istria open 110 km of fast roads, means Ipsilon-Kampanar-Pazin, Ipsilon-Kampanar-Umag, Stancija-Pelicetti-Down to Pomer, then Barban-Most Rush, then it was Nova Vas if I'm not mistaken for Ponta Porton, a bypass around Petrovia and a approach back to Učka. And there's only one thing I want Is to say goodbye to 110km of new roads after the end of this four years. What I expect is that with this Istrian Ipsion, and what is condited by the son of Quanon, which is a question of the stability of the Istrian operation or the building, it is that, and everything has already been settled there and property-legal affairs or issues, I think that we will soon come up with building permits, the finances have been resolved, means that 1.5 km is being made along the rotor in Pula, 2 kms around Barban, so that the second export environment in Istria, which is Labinština, could be connected with the ipslon, and that the disgrace from the road or from the border crossing of Požana near Buzet, to Buzet, that is up to Roč or to Lupoglav, through which about 30% of foreign guests enter Istria. If it enters Istria 30% or that border crossing across that road, it means about 10% of Croatian guests, and all together are minor investments. All in all, it is clear that I respect what Mr. Doncic has done so far. On the other hand, man also asks himself the question of why so many things in this ministry have accumulated, why so many things are simply hitched, so why perhaps the last two or three years have been built less than what could otherwise be built. Well, among other things, the state's attorney's office has been permanently present in the ministry. I'm thinking about that period after 1 7.2009, and in those circumstances, no one wanted to do anything anymore. I'd say we lost about three years because of our insubordination. It is clear that any move should be subject to supervision, whether the DORH, whether the State Audit, or any inspection, or any parliamentary opposition, but these types of political expression or judicial or judicial must not stop any projects at any time when it comes to road construction, railways, airport restoration, sea ports or the development of companies that are subordinated to that ministry. All in all, we welcome the future minister and I wish him both personally and on behalf of the IDS Club a lot of success in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6314	Thank you very much. You can't lift the line, ma'am. I'm sorry. But the correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6315	Thank you, Mr. President. So counterpart Cain said that road talk and road debate mean building an Istrian ipsilon. Inaccurate colleague Cain, meaning the construction of a sub-level ipsilon that we have been waiting for for a very long time, only we in Podravina have fear and we fear that this minister is not getting sick just when we're about to build it. Well, we wish you good health, Mr. Minister, and to complete this sub-level ipilon of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6316	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6317	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister. We have before us a proposal to show confidence to Master Sinisha Hajdash Doncic for the duties of the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Not doubting the choice of prime minister and Croatian government, therefore, the authority that the prime minister proposes a new HDZ club minister once again highlights what we said when you appointed Mr. Komadin to the Croatian government. We had to change the law so Mr. Komadina as mayor could become minister. With the present proposal today, we are doing it again. So we are not changing the law, but re-nominating one executive official, mayor of the Croatian Government. This is your right, but the HDZ club believes that ministers in the Croatian government could come from other duties, not from duties that were well or less well done as mayors in their units of local administration or self-government. The HDZ Club as the largest opposition party here in the Croatian Parliament does not accept the Croatian government's proposal to appoint Mr Doncic as minister because neither the SDP as an opposition party in the Assembly has ever supported HDZ proposals. This means a politically principled position that does not support the appointment of the minister and we call on the minister to show first and foremost by his work in the Croatian government that he is capable of being a minister, and we hope there will be no problem as it was with Mr. Komadin. And here again today so I don't turn out to repeat the same thing three times. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I ask that in the assembly when the representative speaks, and today I speak here on behalf of the HDZ Club as vice president of the club and I address you, Mr. Dragovan, so when speaking, do not make fun of and interfere with the speech of MPs after the assembly. And I think that the President of the Croatian Parliament should introduce order in the assembly when we speak in front of the club. If someone is loud and interferes with the work of MPs and a representative loses focus when speaking, then we have a problem in the assembly. I ask you in front of the HDZ Club to maintain order in the assembly as president of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6318	Now I'm going to answer you, Mr. Salapeci, between you and this. You come here often and ask me for things, so I give you what doesn't exactly belong to you. And I'm not gonna give you any more because of what you just said. If a colleague turns around, maybe even smiles, you phone, other people read the paper, fourths watch the laptop a little bit, right? Please don't exaggerate with your request. I don't think there have been any scenes here, not to say the outbursts that interfered with your speech, especially not right now, so please. Have some tolerance, too. The session of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction is scheduled for 16.30 will be held after the vote. I just don't want to, because we only have one more point behind this, and that's the report and the vote on the Mandate-Immunity Commission report that we don't have enough votes. So I would suggest that all these committees that I have already mentioned and this one be after that point, which will last about five minutes after the vote of confidence of the minister. And, sir, you're the last one on behalf of the HDSSB club. And let me just answer you before you start in Article 209. It says, "The MP can't answer the president's statement." Here you go, Mr. Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6319	Obviously, the Rules of Procedure should be amended, Mr. President, because not wanting to offend you, you can say something as president. Of course, we can be misunderstood by the citizens of Croatia. My opinion differs from Mr. Milanovic's distinguished Mr. Prime Minister, given that in these 100 days, the government has indeed not moved from place. On the contrary, all of these indicators in Croatia are far worse 8 than they were three months ago. I understand the reasons for that. One reason is certainly the former government and what it has been doing for eight years. But in any case, you don't have to go back to the past all the time. And what this government definitely has to solve as soon as possible is an increase in industrial production because it falls from month to month, the number of persons employed is also dropping, and the number of unemployed is growing. And we're getting to that record very quickly for ten years. Also, this government must understand that the VAT increase cannot start production, it cannot start Croatia, nor can the centralisation that this Croatian government has made with tax, mini tax reform and thus practically increased and centralised total revenues and made it impossible for units of local and regional self-government to do their part of the job guaranteed by the laws. I also laughed at a parliamentary representative who spoke on behalf of the HDZ club when he said HDZ was the biggest opposition party. Just don't give me that warning. HDZ may have been a big party once, but in any case today it is not the largest opposition party. There may be a number of MPs, and the largest opposition party could in any case open a little wider discussion. About the appointment of a new minister. I don't want the future minister, because I understand that most in the Parliament will confirm both the election and the proposal of the Prime Minister. So I don't want him to take this personally. I really wish him a success in his work. However, the HDSSB club cannot support its appointment since it did not even do so when appointed Mr. Jakovina as Minister of Agriculture who was the head of the municipality of Bukovlje, who thus deceived his constituents in the municipality, because such a law was passed which was anti-constitutional. There were a number of other examples. After all, I was the first one to call such a law by Komadina's law and such praises about the future minister we also listened to about Mr. Komadini. I'm not getting into the fact that it was the disease that prevented Mr. Komadin from acting as his duty. But in any case, maybe one of his major sins was building the Yellow Lock River road because he didn't agree with the Prime Minister. What I would like to tell the new minister, but also to all MPs that we have brought the budget, that we have also brought the plan of the Croatian Roads and the Croatian Highways, so here I appeal before this vote, but also to the government of the Republic of Croatia, and also to the new minister to study these plans well, that there is a series of illogicalities and a series of things not written in that programme of the Croatian Government that was once called Plan 21, and now it is called 25. I don't know whether the Prime Minister, but also the new minister, knows that the work on continuing to build the Corridor VC that is to connect Hungary, Croatia, BiH again with Croatia, that there are a number of state roads that seem to be from the time that some others worked the roads in Germany before Nazism arrived and during Nazism. I'm talking about the road D46 that connects Djakovo and Vinkovce, Preradović's street wire housewives of the city which is a state road. I am talking about overpasses in Osijek, which are also planned, some were put into budgets for 2008, 2009 and 2010, as well as in 2011 and were in the Croatian Roads plan and never started work or project documentation was produced. There is also a road that connects Nashe-Đakovo, and I remind you that this road of citizens who have to go to the Municipal Court since he was moved from Đakova to a far smaller place, Nasice, is about criminal proceedings so that they can't reach Nasica on that road. If you're watching HAK notifications, you'll see that the Djakovo-Požega road has been closed for almost a year and a half at Rushev for a slide. If someone wants to accidentally go to Djakovo State Attorney's Office, they can't do it anymore even though Djakovo is the second city in Osijek-Baranja County but has to take one bus line on that road that can no longer be called macadam, and it's called the state road can't reach Nashe in order to eventually do a certain job, etc., etc. So here I call you, although for these reasons, and above all, Komadina's law, the anti-constitutional laws that the SDP has shown above all, that there are not enough quality people, that there are not enough experts but also the whole coalition, since they had to reach out to both mayors and mayors and thus cheat primarily their HDSSB voters will not raise their hands for, but I say I want you to do a lot of success in the work and to first correct these injustices that have been done with this budget to the entire Slavonia and Baranja. Because Slavonia and Baranja again and again, and not only with this whole budget, not only by abolishing nearly a billion and a half kuna incentives in agriculture but by the entire budget, although the Prime Minister here has made a public promise in his first speech, presenting himself as Prime Minister that Slavonia will not be forgotten. Slavonia is also similar in this budget to a long number of years forgotten in the budget, forgotten even though the full state budget and therefore here I am asking you, but also from the Prime Minister to put the budget rebalancing procedure in order to correct this great injustice. I say, don't forget all these overpasses both in Osijek above and across railway lines because people get hurt every day. Don't forget the school pass that still today is a state road, there's no light, there's no light, and there's no light signalling let alone traffic lights or circular currents where it was done somewhere where two unclassified roads were cut, but also where certain similar personnel were in power. Don't forget the state roads I've listed for you because the last time it was announced that the marshal Tito had arrived in Djakova, even though he never came to Djakovo, it was there in '71. Queen Elizabeth came, visited the state ergel, which HDZ destroyed by legal personality, and so you have the opportunity to return to the prime minister very quickly to the state ergel as well as to the state attorney's office, the municipal court, as well as to resolve the issue of state ownership of the mimosa of the former PIC administration building, the center of young people from which you now audio after the city was renovated by the building, after almost 25 years the associations of special interest for the city were emigrated, and now they are driven out, from the home of the Croatian army, etc., etc. I've been saying all this because I haven't received a written reply in three months, and I've referred you all these demands as mayor and as parliamentary representative. And here I am asking you to start by not being the rule that has been in force so far, and against which HDZ fought so deeply when it introduced rapid democracy and introduced practical slow-cracies. Here, thank you very much, and I wish you a lot of success in the work of the new minister. And don't forget what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6320	We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First, Madam Representative Gjurdzica Sumrak came forward, followed by Vice President Vladimir Seks. Here you go, Mrs. twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6321	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what I have to do to simply correct the incorrect allegation, that is, the incorrect claim that my colleague has made here so easily, and that HDZ is not the biggest opposition party. A colleague of Vinkovic, led by Dr. Franjo Tudjman HDZ was the only and only real party to this day. Today, the HDZ is the biggest opposition party in Croatia. We know how to deal with it and believe it will change very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6322	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6323	Yes, it is an incorrect claim by respected MP Vinkovic that HDZ is not the largest opposition party since it has 45 MPs, but it is true that the HDSSB is the largest opposition party with six MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6324	Thank you. And finally, I hope at the very end there's still time to report clubs. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6325	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's good to finally find out what the biggest opposition party is just that it lasts another two or three days. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Sinisa Hajdas Doncic, the Croatian Labour Party Club, will vote with abstention for the reason that we do not dispute the right of the Kukuriku coalition to form a government, change or replace individual members of the government depending on the circumstances. This legitimacy and right and has been obtained by the number of mandates in the Croatian Parliament, but we will not vote in favour because we are not and we are not giving Bianca an empty power of attorney to anyone in advance. Secondly, from this presentation, both written and oral, we know what the candidate for the minister was doing. We don't know how he did it. I also mentioned this in the context of the Rules of Procedure in the work of this Parliament which does not foresee and does not allow, when discussing the confidence of the Government as a whole or as a single member of the Government, candidates for members of the Government to answer the question of club representatives. And given that the President of the Parliament has mentioned today at least three times the announcement of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, it might be useful to consider in particular whether a candidate or candidate for a member of the Government must be in such a humiliating position that he cannot answer or speak, simply stay as a mummy and wait for the result of the vote. It might be good to introduce a possibility but only by clubs, questioning candidates for members of the government because I have had the opportunity to read only one public statement about Mr. Doncic so far in which he said he is not a cake and that he is not afraid that he will be eaten by his colleague Linic and Cacic. That's all I know about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6326	You haven't read much. Because I am. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote by raising our hands. That's how we used to do things like this. I am voting on the proposal to show Mr.sc's confidence. Sinishi Hajdash Doncic for his duties as secretary of maritime, transport and infrastructure. To show confidence, it takes most of the votes of all the MPs of us 76. Who is in favour of voting the trust of Master Sinish Hajdash Doncic for the duties of the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure to raise his hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that the majority of votes 81 for, 11 against, 10 abstentions have shown confidence in the master of science Sinishi Hajdash Doncic in carrying out his duties as minister of maritime, transport and infrastructure. ... We're going to take the oath. [[Applause.]] The oath is given in a way that the president pronounces the text of the oath, and Mr. Hajdas Doncic stands up and answers the word I swear. The text of the oath reads: "I swear that I will exercise consciously and honorably the duties of a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and advocate all progress of the Republic of Croatia."
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6327	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6328	Thank you very much. Congratulations to Mr. Secretary. And a little more. That's the second point, then we'll finish the work. Then you can go to the committees we mentioned earlier. Thank you, Prime Minister, thank you for your newly elected and sworn minister. And a little more. That's the second point, then we'll finish the work. Then you can go to the committees we mentioned earlier. Thank you, Prime Minister, thank you for your newly elected and sworn minister. And that's two. Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Zlatko Komadina and the termination of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Ada Damjanac. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to file a report to Mrs. Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6330	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee discussed at its 7th session held on 18 April 2012, the written request of representatives of Zlatko Komadina on the conduct of the parliamentary office of 5 April 2012, which informed the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it had been relieved of the minister's duties so that it had ceased its duties incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties. The commission found that the rest of Mr. Zlatko Komadina's term of office began on 22 December 2011 because of the incompatibility of his duties and that on the same day, his deputy, Ada Damjanac, began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. How Mr. Zlatko Komadina is in accordance with Article 13. The Law on the Elections of MPs filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit laid down the conditions laid down by law, so Goldko Komadina's term of office ended on the eighth day of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of his deputy deputy, Ade Damjanac, on the same day. Following the above mentioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, it unanimously proposes to adopt a decision on the suspension of the term of office of representative and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative. Therefore, on 13 April 2012, the term of office of Representative Zlatko Komadina ceases. The Deputy Representative Ada Damjanac, on 13 April 2012, ceases to act as a representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6331	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting by raising my hands, who's in favour of this motion decision? Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. I find that this decision has been reached unanimously with 97 votes. The oath will be made by the representative of Komadin when he is present, and thanks to the duties performed by Adi Damjanac, a representative of Adi Damjanac, who is very conscious and responsible for carrying out his duties. I would like to inform you that the meetings of the committee that have been scheduled before are now, and tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 with a point that reads the draft law confirming the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Centre for the Implementation of the Law on Southeastern Europe, with the final proposal of the law, are an emergency procedure. And then we will do a second point called the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Police Cooperation, with the final draft of the law and then we will move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6332	Thank you, too. Honorable MPs and respected MPs allow me before I give my word to the presidents of the Committee on Gender Equality to stop the debate so that our colleague, Representative Zlatko Komadin, can give a solemn oath and join us in fulfilling the parliamentary duty. My colleague Komadin's oath is given in a way that the president or chairman reads the text of the oath. After that, the representative when he was called rises and utters his word I swear. The text of the oath reads: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution, the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6333	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6334	Congratulations. Welcome! [[Applause.]] I'm glad you joined us again,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6335	And we move to the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Branka Juričev-Martinchev's representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I'd like the chairman of the committee, Mrs. Gordan Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6336	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The commission discussed the request for damages as a subsidiary prosecutor, EKO TERRA d.o.o., at the 9th session held on 25 May this year. from Dubrovnik sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Branka Juričev-Martinčev's representative in the Croatian Parliament for the reasonable suspicion that she committed crimes under several articles of the Penal Code. Branka Juričev-Martinčev is a representative of the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and is based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be initiated or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the representative. Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of 13 December 2006 laying down the rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of the European Parliament and The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose to the Croatian Parliament to take the following decision: - During the term of the parliamentary term, authorisation for the launch and conduct of criminal proceedings against representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev is denied at the request of the damagees as subsidiary prosecutor EKO TERRA d.o.o. from Dubrovnik. In particular, the Commission took the principle that, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is required to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, it is necessary to grant authorisation for the initiation and conduct of criminal proceedings. However, in cases where the injured person becomes a subsidiary prosecutor as a state lawyer because the state's attorney has established that there is no basis for the prosecution, he will propose to the Croatian Assembly a denial of approval. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated and managed after the end of the term of office, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6337	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Against? Restraint? I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 125 votes. We've come to the very end. Today we finish our work, continue the session on Wednesday 13 June of this year at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda that is coming to us. So we continue this session on Wednesday 13 June of this year with the agenda. Do you want me to do it again? Otherwise the President of the Parliament calls for meetings, do you have any comments? With the agenda item Annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, the implementation of staff policy and the overall state of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2011. I warmly welcome you, so I'll see you on Wednesday 13 June, and colleagues, please, and colleagues and colleagues who will have committees, I believe I will meet here in Parliament on Monday 11 June and Tuesday 12 June. Thank you very much. We are now moving to - Reports from the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please the chairman of this commission to Mrs Gordan Sobol to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6339	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At its 10th session, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Michael Zmajlovic of 13 June this year, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate on hold for the start of the minister's post in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties. As Mr Michael Zmajlovic was elected representative as a candidate on the list of SDP, HNS, LS, IDS and HSU in VII. the election unit pursuant to Article 11 and Article 1(1); The law on selecting representatives in the Croatian party's parliament has been designated by Mrs Ljiljana Cvetovic as deputy MP. The commission found that the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Mihael Zmajlovic were met, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Ljiljana Cvetovic, and the Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision on the rest of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy. On 13 June 2012, the standstill of MP Michael Zmajlovic began. A representative's duty. In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 15 June 2012 will begin acting as Deputy Representative Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6340	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that this proposal has been accepted by 128 votes, so unanimously. Now we're going to take the oath. The oath shall be given in a way that the President of the Assembly shall read the text of the oath, and thereafter the representative or representative in this case when the uprising is called and pronounced "I swear". The text of the oath reads: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6341	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6342	Thank you very much. I congratulate you and wish you a lot of success in your work. Here's the president of the committee. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6343	Thank you. At its 10th session, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Mirela Holly on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duty of 11 June, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 7 June the Government of the Republic of Croatia had relieved her of the duties of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Nature, thus ending a duty deemed incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties. The Commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Mireli Holly, elected from the list of SDP, HNS, LS, IDS and HSU in the 6th constituency began on 23 December 2011 because of the incompatibility of the duty and that on the same day, her deputy Dan Spicer started acting as deputy representative. As Mrs Mirela Holly submitted a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the committee found that the conditions laid down by law and the rest of Mirela Holly's parliamentary mandate ceased on the eighth day of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of her deputy Dan Spitper's duties. Next, the Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly a decision to suspend the term of office of representative and to cease acting as deputy deputies. On 19 June 2012, the term of office of MP Mirela Holy ceased to rest, and Deputy Representatives Dan Spicer on 19 June 2012 ceased to act as deputy representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-18-0.u6344	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. And I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? So we adopted this proposal with 129 votes unanimously. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work on this 4th session as I announced yesterday the item of the agenda entitled 4. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Centre for Law Implementation in South East Europe, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, as prescribed in Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? There's Mr. Master Boris Lalovec, Deputy Minister of Finance. Here you go.
