ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1172	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I am looking for a 15-minute break again because of the situation in Dioki, meanwhile, the situation has worsened, two workers are getting sick. But we're also asking that one of the government's representatives appear to say what can be done right now, what is the situation, people have the right to know, it's not just about these four people who have embarked on a hunger strike, but it's also about 450 people who think it's about 450 Dioki workers plus their family, and I don't think that's the only thing we should go beyond that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1173	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1174	Thank you very much, and the HDSSB Club is looking for a 15-minute break for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1175	And the SDP Club and the HNS Club, a break of 15 minutes, will see you at 10 o'clock. Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. After seeking a break to hold meetings of Croatian Labour Clubs, HDSSB, SDP and HNS, first I give the word to Mr. Mladen Novak on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1177	Dear President, fellow MPs. We asked for a break and we asked for someone to show up from the government because of the state of the DIOKI, which in the meantime became even worse especially for these four people who decided on this desperate move to try to fight the hunger strike for all 450 workers and their family to pay them wages that were not paid if I didn't cheat for six months. I think we need to take a position, that we need to have quality information. This government is not just the government of those who have no problems. We've been selected by all of us and the workers of the DEOKI, and I think if at least they have the right to know what the government is going to do, but not tomorrow, not the day after, not the future, but what they're going to do now because people now have nothing to eat, have nothing to give to their children. I think that's enough reason for at least someone in front of the government to be able to tell. I know it's a private company and it's private capital, but this is the government that all citizens have chosen and all citizens have the right to expect the government to do something about it. And about that, I remind you of Article 187. The Rules of Procedure which discusses the deadline for members of the government to respond, so I recall that on 18 January I asked the first Deputy Prime Minister what will now be two months on the situation in Sisak in a city that is practically dying, which will be taken into account in the matter of metallurgy and metal industry, and until today we have not received that answer. So I ask you to do something about that, too, that these workers or former workers have the right to know what they can expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1178	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1179	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday at the same time from this pay phone just warned about the same problem. Unfortunately, there was no echo, so here today I am saying by taking a break on behalf of the clubs of those who have been reported and in connection with the state of the DIOKI or hunger strike and thirst of employees on the platform in DIOKI at a height of 40, 50 meters. But these facts are not just simple facts, and we see that there is one deafness and one insensitivity of those who might in some way influence. It is true how he said that it was a private private company or a private company. However, there have been a number of companies that have experienced similar earthquakes over the past months, in which the state was a majority owner. Now not to mention KIO Orahovica, Dalmatia, Željezara Sisak, Herbo Sisak, Textile industry in Sinj and Imotski it seems to me that, Đakovštino from a year ago, two days ago and a number of other companies and workers who remain jobless, without bread, and it is by God and by human laws in a situation where two workers drive away because of a difficult health condition from that platform that here as people primarily react as humans. We all know that while we're already talking about DIOKI any speculation or recognition that in particular the owner of DIOKI bought a BMW blinded to his friend and that in the height of about 4.5 million kuna. Now we're asking the question of six payouts. Here we have passed a law based above all on action and above all on the pawning of certain clubs from the Kukuriku coalition that non-payment of salaries is a criminal offense. So where are we now? Why now that we've passed such laws and regulations that non-payment is a criminal offence, and these workers that my colleague was talking about before me, there are 450 of them that six months have not been paid. Where is the executive authority now that can act by means of legal provisions? After all, there is always a solution, that I do not quote from Petrice Kerempuh there is always a solution and there are opportunities that can be met again and legally by the provisions and provisions and by the treaty both by human and by God's laws to achieve justice and righteousness, but again clearly from the means of the one who owns the company and the state and the current reserves, possibly, can be made important and all that can be done out of it. After all, DEOKI has its value, has its own core capital and it is a company that has a perspective in both the Croatian state and Croatian society. It is therefore difficult to say what measures we would do here, what conclusion we could draw in this regard, but there is also an institution under which the Croatian Parliament can reach a conclusion, and the conclusion could be that the executive authority, therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all responsible within as short a time as possible, is still a deadline that could save the lives of those who are on the platform, and not only them, but also those 450 who do not have the bread to get rid of it. If there is good will and good faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1180	Thank you very much. You have the correction of an incorrect quote from your colleague at the club. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1181	Your Honor, Mr. President. counterpart Grubisic said when he mentioned the Djakovstina case that it was a year, two days ago. This was just before this election when the former Government of the Republic of Croatia paid off the redundancies to workers and then I suggested that the future budget be here for such cases as the DEOKI Government must have certain funds from which workers will settle. We've also passed these bankruptcy laws and I don't see the possibility of these workers being paid back in that bankruptcy procedure because the obvious situation in that company is very complex. So here's what I suggest is that this House draws this conclusion that the government is, as soon as possible, visible to the state of the DIOKI and finds a solution to how to help these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1182	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1183	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So it's certainly a difficult problem, but unfortunately it's not a lonely problem. We know what's going on, what's going on, what happened with KIO Orahovica, MTC bankruptcy in Međimurje,... And there are thousands of jobs lost. [[You don't understand.]] We know what the situation is in Sisak and there's Agent Novak quite right. We know what can happen to the shipyards, what happens to Adriachem, and of course DIOKI is just one of these sad stories of the Croatian economy with a billion and 600 million debts, of which unfortunately the state is actually a very small believer and there is no direct financial opportunity to do something bigger through this instrument. A number of meetings have been held in various ministries these days. At this stage, the government can offer firstly a zero attempt to offer good mediation services, attempts to deal with creditors in order to start production. What the government or government bodies have done, the government's companies have done is facilitate the situation with debts to HEP because both of these facilities and facilities in Zagreb and the facility in Krk are actually very dangerous and that is, of course, minimally what the Government can do. Whether the government will find in these efforts and other mechanisms we hope it will. The club of HNS representatives certainly supports all the efforts of the Government and understands, of course, the initiatives of MPs to do everything possible, and of course, in this difficult situation that is happening with DIOKI in order to be good and to support and the possibility that someone from the Government should contact the Croatian Parliament and explain more detail than we MPs can take in order to help out of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1184	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1185	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Surely all of us here in this assembly, in the SDP, care for workers is very important and what I want to say here is very clear that resolving the problem will not come from politics. The fact is that we inherited the company that we are talking about today was the inherited debts that amounted to almost a billion and 600 million kuna with December 31st 2011, and the fact is that there are major problems there. But also the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of what it is about a private company, and this is about a private company, is doing its utmost to try in its power as its legal powers to ensure the ability to start production. I think it is important to say here that, from the 23rd of January, when the union informed the Ministry of Labour about the problems in DIOKI, there is a co-ordination run by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the relevant ministries of talks with the trade unions, talks with the DIOKI Defence Centre, talks with workers, and arrangements for creditors to sit at the same table and try to find a solution to start production in DIOKI. Enough to say that over the past two months, 10 meetings have been held exclusively and only on the topic of solving the problem in DIOKI and solving the problems of workers who are employed there. I'm sure 450 people who haven't received their salary in six months are in an extremely difficult situation and we all have an understanding for that. But also at this point, some things can't be done unless there's a legal possibility of being created, except for the one where the government participates practically daily in finding a solution to the credentials sitting at the table. Two meetings have been held so far, unfortunately one out of 12.3 failed and what would be very important here is that on February 6th, during a meeting of representatives of all three ministries and the labour and the economy, it was agreed that an agreement between the believers would be reached by March 31st. The fact is also that the government is informed of the collective contract that the workers of the DEOKI have signed, which guarantees them in a certain way the payout of salaries, but what we all must be able to do together to make sure that, regardless of what people are having a hard time living and 6 months have not been paid, those who are responsible and who have brought them into this situation, people who are in a certain way the owners of the DEOKI must find a solution among other things to find these money and to pay those people back. In the end, it's just for a little while. Between January 23rd and March 12th, 10 meetings were held in co-ordination of the means of resolution ministries, trade unions and DIOKI and DINA, representatives of creditors who are intensively trying to find solutions. And I don't think politicizing on this subject is gonna solve the problem of the DIOKI workers, but a joint involvement to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1186	Mr. Representative Tušak raised a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Correction of an incorrect allegation? Here you go. Well, now you can't do all that stuff, phone. All right, I'll give you my word. So, you have a correction to an incorrect quote? You picked up the second plate, but fine. You still don't know your way around as a new representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1187	Your Honor, I apologize for being quick because my phone just rang and then I couldn't handle it. Correction of an incorrect allegation. It's been said here to be politicized. I have to say it's not politicized with the DEOKI because it's 450 fates of people, workers who have nothing to eat. It's not politicizing. These people are in a stalemate situation. Four of them decided to strike hunger. I ask you, therefore, that when it comes to human destiny that it is not said that it is politicizing. We're asking here to solve that question so that people can live normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1188	Thank you. We've got two more corrections to the incorrect assumption. First Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1189	I'd also like to correct my colleague Dragovan. It's not about politics or politicizing. Many have said that fighting for workers' rights is politics and politicizing, and that is no politics or politicizing, but simply we are asking that an adequate solution be found to help these people. It's our only intention. And here I don't think that we should share in the position and opposition, but we should simply find a way and a modus to help in the short term, but also in the long term all these employees. And not only in DIOKI, but in all companies in such difficulties. It's the government's job, but it's also the work of this Parliament and of our representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1190	Thank you. And correcting the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1191	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a daunting calm that Mr. Dragovan said these workers are in a difficult position. These workers are not in a difficult position. They're hungry. They've been hungry for six months. They're people who live here in the city, they don't have popcorn at home, they don't have ducks at home, and they don't have a garden at home. They're literally hungry. And our duty here is not to politicize but to scream out loud and say 500 citizens, 500 families, 2,000 citizens are hungry. So what are we doing here?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1192	Thank you. Madam Representative Jadranka Kosor, vice president. Here you are, I mean on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1194	Thank you very much. So we've got you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1195	And we're looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1196	So, the Club of Representatives Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1197	And HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1198	And on what subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1199	On the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1200	You can't do this one. You can't do this one because you've already had it. You can't do business. It's a 15-minute stand-up for the HDZ club. My colleagues and colleagues continue. On behalf of the HDZ Club, don't you? ... Mr. Representative Đuro the Drinker, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1202	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear and esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. So here we are today in one situation that the Croatian Parliament must actually discuss the fate of an industrial company for the reasons of course that obviously the Government does not find a way or the possibility to actively engage constructively in solving this difficult problem. We, therefore, were personally the Croatian government in the past, of course, faced with similar situations often and often on this left hand side, of course, it was extremely difficult to listen to all the criticisms and attacks despite the fact that in a number of cases we have really and successfully and qualityd similar problems. DEOKI is one of the key industrial systems, of course in the past, but also in the recent past. One of the key exporters of petrochemical products. And what is really important today is that we hear essentially what the government is planning and what measures and actions it intends to take to preserve this important industrial company. No matter what, on the property. Let me just mention these problems were of a similar nature in the past year, but also in the DIOKI itself. We haven't faced any strikes, nor have we faced such drastic moves of one part of the hunger workers, but they've been sitting up at 50 meters for days. I remind you that we have had a similar situation in Gjeljezara Split, but we have not been away from that problem. And the hunger strike and at one point a very critical situation that people have climbed the factory chimney. But me and my colleagues were there at the same time, along with the unions, with the representatives of the workers finally solved the problem. And I believe that soon the new owner of the Zeljezare Split will start production again. As for the DEOKI, therefore, in the entire last year, faced with the problem that indeed the existing owner was no longer able to manage his management quality through his management, we had to engage in problem solving and we were involved. So, despite the high debts towards HEP, according to INA, we agreed with these two companies to secure this necessary energy component so that the DEOKI does not stop working. And practically until the end of our term, in fact, DIOKI produced and produced, regardless of course, the owner did not agree to the offered models and solutions that we had in the package, so change of ownership, entry and HEP and INA and major creditors, which were banks, owned and thus permanently solved the problem. But every day, I personally and the government, we were involved with the goal of not shutting down production, of workers getting paid, and that's what happened. We don't really see the government doing anything for three or four months, and we don't see, of course, how else will the government be involved in this problem, and probably in a series of next ones, because everything that has been seen so far leads to their washing hands of these burning economic problems. So of course we want to hear in this place what will be done, what kind of agreement will be reached and how this important economic operator will be preserved. This is what we expect, this is necessary because the investments launched in Krk, so 30m euros is still waiting to be realised by the end of a large industrial complex which could naturally continue very successful activities so far and increase both production and capacity, and therefore it is really necessary for the government to engage, to include the resolution minister and the existing owner, the problem of large debt and the problem of continuing production itself and the continuation of the natural quality fate of the employees themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1203	Thank you. You have Mr. Drinker 6 correction of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac, please. Excuse me, Milorad Batinić. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1204	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, Mr. Drinker's representative said an incorrect quote, so I'll try to quote "that the government doesn't find ways to solve the problem" which is not true. He was supposed to follow the media more closely for a month and in two months, and it appears that the government is finding a way. Also, what was last was even on the radio, we all know what kind of ownership structure it is. And that's what Mr. Drinker knows best that it's not simple. And also another quote if you allow during this period of time. So back 3 to 4 months, so I think Mr. Drinker should still be so careful in showing that he knows when the government was formed and when the DIOKI problem started because he thinks about what else for those governments was.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1205	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1206	Thank you very much. Well, it seems that the more difficult things have been replaced here, and that's why my correction. In fact, it is about talking and talking about how the government, the past government, has done everything possible to avoid this situation as it is currently in Dioki with a debt or a billion and 600 million kuna, which is more than 1% of the Croatian state budget. Whether the debt was created in agreement, namely, it is public enterprises and HEP and in INA that we have 40 and how much of the Croatian state's share. So, actually, this fire was a gorilla, the fire was quieting, and now we need fire measures, so what wasn't actually solved in time was what was supposed to be solved. Where there was a debt of a billion and 600 that no one reacted from the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1207	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1208	...an incorrect allegation that the current government is doing nothing to solve the problem in Dioki, is incorrect because since the constitution itself, so since January, the government has been involved in solving the problem in Dioki, however, it is only one of the smaller creditors, the total debts have risen almost to a billion and 600 million kuna. An investment that's huge and not finished, and it's one of the problems of ending the investment and putting it into function. And as for the former government ensuring production, it is also not true because if it had solved the production problem, it could still be happening today. So, as one of the creditors of the state, in fact, together with all the believers of Dioki, they must seek a solution for this company.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1209	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic also corrected the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1210	Thank you. Mr. Prosecutor has replaced the thesis, I say the former government has done nothing to solve the problem not only of Dioki but also of the economy because today they would not have 350 thousand unemployed and in Dioki would not be an enormous debt. Maybe she did that government with the Captain with the Little Vitre, so she helped develop the BMW industry by buying out of a company like this and getting money in black shopping bags. On the other hand, this is an appeal to the current Croatian government not to act the same as the last government but to understand the seriousness of the situation to do something urgent to improve the situation. And this is our request that we ask the Croatian Parliament to vote this out, since these people are not only those people in Dioki but also in all companies in a similar situation who can wait for agreements and resolutions that will last a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1211	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Branko Vukšić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1212	What's going on in Dioki is only the aftermath of the work of the former government and the people sitting in the former government are now washing their hands like Pontius Pilate and transferring responsibility to this government. The main objections to this government, as a colleague said earlier, do not do what should be done, behaves in some respects just as the former government acted, and what we need to hear here in the Parliament rather than reading from the papers. So, as Parliamentarians chosen by the people, someone from the government should speak to us and tell us what is going on in this matter and other issues. It is also incorrect to say that the issue of Split's railways has been resolved, that it reacted immediately, remember those workers who called Prime Minister Kosor for days who did not deserve to come to Split and talk to the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1213	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The correction of Mr. Poppie's incorrect quote, which I quote, said, "The government washes the hands of Dioki." The government doesn't wash its hands from Dioki, but the government is crucified in countless cases, misdemeanors, which you left behind by gentlemen and which are exclusively your political heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1215	Thank you very much. Now I'm eventually chairman since yesterday's session, and I'm obliged to say a few sentences. Among other things, when yesterday, Mr Mladen Novak, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, requested a break for the club on this topic that we discussed today at the beginning of the session, asked the prime minister to come to the meeting or as someone from the government said. I will now remind you, and in the end I will say why I remind you of these provisions of the Constitution. Therefore, Article 71 states that the Croatian Parliament is the representative body of citizens and the holder of the legislative authority. Article 81 speaks of the Croatian Parliament overseeing the work of the Government in accordance with the Constitution and the law. This Regulation shall enter The Government shall exercise the executive power in accordance with the Constitution and the law. And Article 115. The government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 86, MPs are asking parliamentary questions, to which they should agree, to get an answer on time. Interpletion, and may raise the question of trust to the Government or to a certain member of the Government of the Minister. Those are the rules. In our parliamentary practice there were exceptions, but as president of the Croatian Parliament, I noticed about a month ago when there were problems on our roads, we know about what, one of the MPs asked for a break for the club and said why he wanted a break for the club and asked for a representative of the government, I quickly secured it and came here Mr Ostojić on behalf of the Government, but he was as Home Affairs Minister. Club session is over, then it's said no, we're looking for a prime minister. I thought it was an abuse, and now I think it is. Finally, as far as this issue is concerned, the government is very concerned with the subject and situation in Dioki, as well as with the resolution of other problems that have accumulated in the real-sector economy over the past years. Mr. Representative Grubisic, I mention you, please not in a bad context. You asked where this executive authority was to operate through legal powers. Well, she's acting through legal authority. A dozen meetings were held only by the labour ministry from January 23rd to yesterday. The finance ministry was also involved in the economy ministry. The media regularly report what happens to the situation in DIOKI and I think the Government should do its job, not interfere with this work and always responds to this Croatian Parliament for its work but let it have the opportunity to do its job. Here is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, just to warn you to refer to the relevant article of the Rules of Procedure. Madam Representative Kosor, Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1216	Well, Mr. President, Article 209, all those who talk about how to conduct the session. I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure when you have actually called the demands of MPs and advocates to discuss this difficult problem by disrupting the work of the Government. Representatives cannot interfere with the work of the Government you said that, Mr. President, because it is the job of a representative and a representative to talk about problems, to say what comes to mind simply because it is so in the system of parliamentary democracy, and you yourself said that the government is responding to the Croatian Parliament. It would be very bad if our work here were understood and interpreted as a obstruction of the government's work. We oversee the government's work regardless of whether in opposition or being representatives of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u1217	You've now used one institute again, and that's the correction of an incorrect assumption that you had no right to do by the Rules of Procedure, and I've given you the right to speak. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure at all. Correction of an incorrect quote can't be applied to me, and I've been a due answer to you since yesterday. Thank you very much. We're going back to work. Therefore, the Report of the National Sports Council from 18 June 2010 to 31 December 2011. The report was submitted by the National Sports Council pursuant to Article 4. Sports law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate is conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Would the proposer's representative like to further explain the proposal, I would like to ask Mrs Danir Bilic, whom I welcome as president of the National Sports Council? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5806	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. On the bench you received a detailed Report from the National Sports Council from 18 June 2010 until the end of 2011. As the National Sports Council was established in mid-2010, we submitted a report for a year and a half to catch the pace and to submit a report for a calendar year as prescribed by law and regulation. I would not convince you of a detailed report but if you allow me to point out a few things that I consider extremely important, and also try to bring the role and purpose of the National Sports Council closer together. The establishment and formation of the National Sports Council is scheduled for the first time in Croatian history by the 2006 Sport Act. The National Sports Council is designed as the highest expert body for the field of sport which has a double role, to set priorities and guidelines for the development of national sport policy and to be a bridge between the government's sector and sports organisations as NGOs. Both areas of action of the National Sports Council are indeed of paramount importance for future development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. The National Sports Council was also set up by example of most Western European countries and more developed countries in the world with similar bodies with similar tasks. The work of the National Sports Council with such defined objectives and tasks is also in line with the recommendations of the European Commission and several other European documents that regulate issues related to sport policy such as the 2007 White Paper on Sports, such as the Nice Declaration of 2000 and the European Council document entitled the European Sport Model. Since there is no tradition of body action such as the National Sports Council in the Republic of Croatia as well as in the former State of the National Sports Council, there are still many obstacles and misunderstandings in its work. On the one hand, the wider sports community sees us as a political body appointed by the Croatian Parliament, which is responsible for its work at the Croatian Assembly, which was appointed to control sports and thus poses some kind of threat to the autonomy of sport. On the other hand, state policy sees us as a threat because it believes that we are entering some segments of their actions. The National Council is neither. We are neither a threat to the autonomy of sports nor we want to do this nor can we act on the autonomy of sports associations, nor are we a body that takes away the ability of the state to act in the field of sport because the role of state policy is to create conditions for the development of sport in terms of legal and sublegal regulation of the possibility of action in this area. As you know, as you have seen the legal provisions governing the activities of the National Sports Council say the National Council gives its opinion, sets priorities, sets out guidelines, encourages debates on important issues for sport, so it is not an operational body that advises, encourages, gives opinions, suggestions and conclusions. Our mission is to fill the void that has existed in Croatian sport for 20 years. From the draft Croatia to the present day, neither the sports community nor the state policy have adopted a strategic document that would fully regulate the question and the problem of sports. The state has always stopped at the adoption of the Sport Act, considering it regulates sport development policy, while the sports community has concentrated on short-term problems of solving short-term problems without the possibility of the need to adopt long-term guidelines in certain parts of sport. In the National Sports Council we are aware of these problems, we are aware and we want to participate in their resolution. And for this very reason, immediately after the establishment of the National Sports Council, we started to analyse the state of Croatian sport. It may be a shame to say from this place but at this point nobody in the Croatian sport system or state policy has full and precise data, for example how many sports facilities in the Republic of Croatia we have, how many open, how many sports buildings, how many playgrounds. And not to mention their condition, their equipment, their usability, their cost-effectiveness, and their management methods. The fact is also that we currently have no common position on standards and norms in planning, construction and equipment of sports facilities. Nobody knows even about the national level how many people are really involved in sports, how many children, how many adults, how many young athletes, how many sports clubs are exactly. For example, if you look at the data of the National Statistics Institute and the data that we have from sports communities, you will see that they differ significantly, significantly, that these differences are indeed huge. And in the end, no one knows how much it costs, how much money is invested in sports annually. What we can monitor is how much money from the central and local government budget is invested in sport, although the second issue would be to control the dedicated spending of budget funds. We also do not know how much funding is made from sponsors, donors and how much funding comes from citizens or households. For some of these questions, there are no estimates, and where there are estimates they are not based on concrete or solid indicators. And these are basically ladies and gentlemen the key problems of sports in the Republic of Croatia. And when the National Sports Council realized about a year and a half ago that it was impossible to reach these indicators because they simply didn't have them we launched perhaps the most important thing for the future of Croatian sport, which is making a number of studies and analysis that should provide answers to key problems in sport, some that I have cited and some that I haven't even cited. How we're going to run a sport, how we're going to determine priority, strategic goals and methods and how they're realized if we really don't know what kind of sport they're in today, or we just think we know. The national budget for 2010 provided for minimum resources for the work of the National Sports Council covering the technical functioning of the Council. So in 2010 until the end, we were preparing for 2011 with our proposals, looking for funding, getting little less than 2 million kuna from the 2011 state budget, and we immediately brought first of all a programme of analytical and strategic studies and documents for the term of office of 4 years, then formed teams and did perhaps, first of all, I would like to highlight two important studies. The first of them is a study titled "The Fundamental Principles and Guidelines for Sport Development in the Republic of Croatia". This document we have brought to our attention the fact that there is no national programme for the development of sport, and simply this study is the basis of the work of the National Sports Council, the basic document from which all of our future activities will come. The document was created by an expert group within 5 months and was unanimously adopted by the National Sports Council, but I would add that more members of the National Sports Council participated in its implementation. This document presents the state of Croatian sport, but based on existing indicators, it compares with the system of sports in EU and world countries, brings forward guidelines for future action, but at the same time reveals many weaknesses in the sport system, as well as the problems that sports face today. First of all, it points to a lack of accurate and complete data that would allow a clear analysis of the state of the sport area in all its segments. Furthermore, in the field of sports legislation, the 2006 Sport Act provides for the adoption of 14 sublaws within a month to a year from the entry into force of the law. To this day, only 7, 7 have not been brought in. So today to talk about whether the current Sport Act is good or not is almost impossible because it is a significant part of the law that is not implemented at all. We have similar mostly unfavourable indicators in other areas of sport such as sports financing, sports facilities, coaches and other professional staff, health care of athletes etc. That study is on a CD which is an integral part of this report that I heard yesterday on the board that unfortunately the representatives didn't all get the CD, but we sent one material with which the CD was assuming, of course, that the material was copied to all MPs that it would also be done with the CD, unfortunately it wasn't done. I hope that until today it is, if it isn't at least all the members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports got it yesterday, I hope you get it. On the basis of the Programme of Analytical and Strategic Studies and Documents for the term of office of 4 years, which I mentioned earlier, on the basis of it and on the basis of the planned funding in the State budget for 2011, the National Sports Council envisaged and proposed four other studies in 2011 and the financing of sports in the Republic of Croatia, the analysis of the situation and the possibility of developing sports infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, the Coaches and professional jobs in Croatian sport and the organisation of sports and sports legislation in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, in order to reduce, significantly reduced funds in June 2011 for nearly 800,000 kuna, only two project studies were then launched, financing sports in the Republic of Croatia and Treneri and professional activities in Croatian sport. In addition, due to the problem of the public competition due to the submitted complaint in 2011, only a study of Coaches and professional jobs in Croatian sport was made, while the study Funding of Sports in the Republic of Croatia is currently starting to be produced and should be completed by the autumn of this year. Study Coaches and professional jobs in Croatian sport were completed and adopted in December 2011. This is the first study of this type in the Republic of Croatia in general and is particularly important because it shows a more concrete reality, shows a number of bad solutions regarding professional work with athletes, shows that in Croatian sport it works a whole series in accordance with the Law on Sport of Unqualified Trainers and Other Professionals, but it also points to the problematic working-legal status of trainers in the Republic of Croatia and also objective problems in the system of education of trainers at national level. The study is indeed an excellent basis for further strategic action in this area for the development and strategic objectives related to the specific area, but also for the development of one of the regulations also provided for by law, has not been adopted, and this is the Regulation on the necessary professional preparation and training of trainers at national level. In addition, in the past period, the National Sports Council has also adopted a document, a proposal for guidelines for the making of rules of categorised athletes, and sent it to all competent authorities to act according to these guidelines, which are the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Couple Olympic Committee and the Croatian Sports Federation of the Deaf. Furthermore, the National Sports Council also discussed the merger of the Croatian Anti-Doping Agency in sport with the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and introduced the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Competent Ministry and the Croatian Parliament with their position on the issue. The project of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports called dual careers, i.e. categorised athletes in the system of education, gave the National Sports Council a positive opinion, one strong support, and not only support, but we have also come to the conclusion that we have proposed a number of concrete proposals to all the relevant authorities in the field of sport, from the area of education in the Republic of Croatia to really encourage the realization of this project, which is aimed at really allowing athletes today to build a double career. So, to follow your educational and sports career parallelly. Furthermore, with regard to changes and additions to the national pedagogical standard of the primary education system, the National Sports Council has established that the provisions of Article 40 of this Article on the obligation of each school to conduct swimming training for all students during primary school education have been deleted. We gave our opinion to the competent authorities where we really don't see reasons for eradicating swimming lessons from the state-pedagogical standard, and that's not even in line with the curriculum and basic school program. The National Sports Council further considered and supported the Croatian Olympic Club's initiative to address the status of top athletes in Croatia in the amendments and additions to the Sport Act in a good way. We also considered and supported another project of the Croatian Olympic Club called the inclusion of athletes in the promotion of the Republic of Croatia and in this sense provided a letter of support to the competent authorities. The National Sports Council was submitted to the opinion and the proposal on amendments to the Sport Act with the final proposal for a law. The National Sports Council did not support that proposal and in this respect sent a letter to the competent ministry, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, we also communicated with the Ombudsman for children, the Croatian Olympic Club, the Education and Education Agency, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a number of other issues, and we also received a number of different letters, questions that were not even in our jurisdiction, but we answered everything on an up-to-date basis. So, according to our powers stemming from the Sport Act. What I would certainly like to emphasise is that the National Sports Council has indeed worked solely in accordance with its obligations under the Sport Act, that we have acted on almost all points except for one that refers to giving an opinion on adult education programmes in the field of sport. But we're not simply because we didn't get a single program to think, that we're all what we did, which is certainly more interesting and important to you, but also what's less interesting and important to you. But we've tried to put everything on this CD as accompanying material to be as transparent as possible and so that you can get the impression that both in principle and individual legal and physical persons experience the National Council and how they address us. In the end, let me point out the conditions under which the National Sports Council works. Namely, the Sport Act as you have seen is designed for the Ministry of Sport to carry out administrative tasks for the National Sports Council but not professional ones. In practice, it seems to you that we have the support of two people of whom I would mention one of whom is currently volunteering. So he's not even an employee of the sports department. And he's aware of the fact that the Department of Sport within the Ministry doesn't have enough professional people for his day-to-day jobs. On two occasions we asked to get at least two or three, two or three people who would be permanent and continued support for the work of the National Sports Council in administrative and professional terms. Unfortunately, we didn't get the answer. So here, in any case, I appeal to all MPs really to be through some future changes and to supplement the Sport Act to be taken care of in that part. However, in these difficult working conditions, the National Sports Council managed in its first and a half days of action to make strong steps in defining and creating a national policy of action and strategic planning for the development of sports in our country. I thank you all for your attention and, of course, I am available for all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5807	Thank you very much. Reporters of the working bodies, do you think anyone might want one? Yeah. Here you go. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5808	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam President of the National Council, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports discussed the National Sports Council's report at its second session and it's like a parent working body. And after the opening part, when the proposer's representative informed about the work, when she pointed out in particular all the problems in sports, otherwise and through the National Council's actions, it specifically highlighted the lack of these exact sports-related data, i.e. the situation, the number of clubs, the number of athletes, the state of infrastructure that should also affect the quality, guidelines and the programme for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. She also showed us, introduced us to the state of study and actually an analysis that will actually give just the whole picture of the situation and the problems in sport. Afterwards, there was a discussion on our committee when a number of issues were actually raised, i.e. a number of problems in the sport that we all agreed existed and that very little has been taken into account in the past period of sport, which is why these problems have also accumulated. Expectations are also very high. The expectations of all board members on the one hand are very high because of the problems that have accumulated, and on the other hand because of the definition of the National Council, i.e. their roles as the highest expert body concerned with the development and quality of sport. We supported, of course, the database that will be made with all the sports components when you will know how many athletes, how many clubs, how many facilities, how much sports infrastructure we have. The question arises about resolving the inconsistencies of all entities and institutions in sport that more structures should actually be introduced, i.e. greater cooperation between all these institutions. There was talk of lost time. The question has been raised why the National Council was not appointed in 2006 when it was prescribed by the Sport Act. Is it because we saw somewhere that it existed or was actually meant to form that council immediately. It must therefore be a waste of time to show once more about the great carelessness of sports. There have also been comments on a financial report that is bad, which is non-transparent. Even so bad that there was a wrong sum of one. According to this, the showing of finances should be one spring, one form as all the other reports to be given. However, we hope that the expert processing of the data that is under way will serve as the basis of the design and priorities and guidelines for the development of sport, as a strategic basis, as well as that it will also help the new Sport Act, i.e. the first time the law will be based on a real database which, on the shame of the previous attitude towards sport in Croatia, did not exist. With all these constructive remarks in the debate we had on the board, we unanimously accepted the report, but still with great expectations. Expectations that, of course, stem from the very definition of the National Sports Council, and on the other hand because of the detected problems that have accumulated each day and accumulated. We expect an even proactive policy towards sports, of course, in order to increase the quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5809	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Dan Spicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5810	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's an opinion on behalf of the SDP Club on this National Sports Council report. In fact, it is often said that the only thing more important than working is the report on the work. At times, though, even the report of work cannot cover up the unhappiness as long and exhaustive as it may be. Reading this report gives the impression that the council mainly dealt with things that did not work for him, and it was mostly not about what his job was. Because how else do you explain a document in which almost half the text in some way explains what all the councils are not responsible for until the rest of the text complains that their opinions are generally not respected. Okay, there's also a part of the report that shows the initial workmanship of the councils where they promise to produce as many as 14 project studies even though they finally ordered only 2 and got 1. Unfortunately, there is no part of the report that speaks of what the Council did, for example, regarding the continuing violation of the Law on Sports. Did the Council make proposals for amendments to the same law that proved to be missing for years? How did the Council react to the absence of a number of regulations and acts whose adoption of the Law on Sports provides for, and no one has passed them for years? Did the Council point to the absence of a national programme of sports, strategy and development of Croatian sport as the basic documents necessary to identify the objectives and tasks of the development of sports in Croatia that should have been passed years before and spent years later? None of that says in this report. But not because the report is incomplete but because the council probably did not do so at all, nor did it consider it necessary for anyone to ask why basic laws, programmes and acts regulating the question of sports, sports activities, building facilities and athletes are generally not being respected, not applied or actually exist? But I think we'll all agree that the report is the least of the problems. It describes more or less precisely what happened during a certain period of time, what was done, or what was simply not done. Not entirely nor can it be all the blame on the council, nor can it be responsible for all the failures and shortcomings in the system of sports. It is true that the Council had a legislative task and a legislative framework, as well as powers and instruments, that as most professionally, I mention the expert body for sport, not politically, concerned about the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia. It is also true that we would hardly deserve a passing grade for our work so far. But it is also true that for the completely unsatisfactory situation in Croatian sport, many others, individuals and institutions, are responsible. And that the problem is really much deeper, and responsibility is much, much wider. But let's start in a clean order to better understand the problem of the current state of sports in Croatia. First, under the Law on Sport, which has been in force since July 2006, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was due to submit within 6 months to the Croatian Assembly a proposal for candidates for this particular National Sports Council. As we know, the council was founded only in June 2010. So 3.5 years after the legal deadline. The Law on Sports defines the National Sport Programme as a document setting out the objectives and tasks of the development of sport, the activities necessary for the implementation of these objectives and tasks, developmentists and measures to control its implementation. Otherwise, it is brought to an 8-year period, and the deadline for submitting the programme's proposal expired in April 2007. The creation of the programme has never even begun, and the council has not even asked the question of responsibility, and it should have. The same applies to the Croatian Sports Development Strategy, which should have served just as a template, the most important template for the development of the programme. It's never started, the council is silent about it. A whole series of regulations, acts whose adoption was foreseen by the Sport Act back in 2006 should have been passed in 2007 never entered into the procedure or at any stage of production. For example, the rules on the registration of sports associations, principles and basic elements, the system of sports competitions, the rules on the network of sports facilities, this is very important to determine the plans for construction, renovation, maintenance and management of sports buildings. None of it exists. The Council is silent about it. There is no law on sports inspection provided for by the law on sports, even though it should have been passed long ago. The absence of this law has neither been subject to inspection of professional nor financial work in sport, the work of sports associations and associations. No ladies and gentlemen are in control of anyone and no one is responding to anyone behind what. Instead of trained trainers, we have hundreds and hundreds of uneducated and unqualified persons who sell under coaches and work with our and your children, without any responsibility without any knowledge of example, sports medicine, anatomy, methodology of work and the like. And nothing to anyone. How about I ask you while we're at it, would you let your kid take a bus ride to school and you know that bus rides a driver who doesn't have a driver's license, not a single hour of driving experience for the same bus? Probably wouldn't. So why didn't the council encourage the adoption of the Law on Sports Inspection, if it wasn't the task of this Council, I think it is. So, while the Sport Act provides for mandatory conversion of sports clubs from citizens' associations to sports shareholders' societies, only the NK Hajduk has done so far. And Mamic and the other dignitaries and similar moral verticals continue to hide behind their associations of citizens, turning millions on transfers, walking around like saying horny spiders while, with the mandatory mention of the family reminds us of all the wealth of Croatian language. It's a shame. And precisely because of such self-proclaimed sports matches and those who have loudly or less supported them all these years in a completely atrophed system with impaired values and without any ideas and visions today, sport is at the lowest level. Our stadiums are empty, our leagues are falling apart, corruption, nepotism, powerlessness, they're not even trying to hide anymore. Sports are becoming increasingly exclusive predetermined for a few privileged ones. In addition to the declaration, there is no concrete support for recreational and amateur sports. Everything is transferred to the back of parents who pay dearly and the most basic recreation of their children. On the one hand, billions of dollars are spent on the elite, and it is tinyd into millions of others. Sports fields and sports recreation centres which should primarily serve for social purposes are given in a concession to private companies and associations with the basic objective of achieving their profits, and precisely to the practice of sport which is the basic right of one of the fundamental human rights, and this right is growing more and more on paper alone. On the other hand, there are no long-term plans or strategies for the construction of sports facilities. If something is built, ad hoc is built and usually megalomaniac. Sports facilities, rather than being built for citizens, are often built with the aim of winning architectural awards, regardless of their functionality or frequent dysfunction. And today, some mega buildings and halls, after having performed their initial function for certain competitions, are now largely going into bankruptcy and yawning empty. For six terrains we spent about 4 billion kunas, for example, for those money we could also build some 200 recreational swimming pools or as many sports centres. But someone decided to be like this, why? Because there's no strategy, no plan, no vision. As our neighbors do, I'll tell you two examples. Hungarians. The Hungarians have come up with a 10-year plan and a program in which they said ok, we will build for citizens of 100 recreational pools that citizens will not pay for, recently finished last, 100. Austrians in all new schools commit to building schools with a pool, so a new school cannot be built unless it provides a swimming pool and also introduces swimming pools into all old schools. If it is not possible to establish a school sports hall in the hall, it is not possible to build a swimming pool of halls and build a new one. Why? I guess because they did some sort of analysis, some kind of study, some kind of strategy that showed that swimming and water sports are very good. The healthiest for school kids. They did not remember one night, nor did they piss on six halls, but they shared their rewards, and then they marveled at the fact that there was no one to finance you and that most of them did not visit. Well, so much for the state of sports so far. There is one, hopefully, new era in which the new government, and the Ministry must indeed solve a whole series of accumulated problems, but this government takes it as a challenge, not only a challenge but also an opportunity. An opportunity to really restore sport to athletes and citizens, professionals, amateurs, to restore honesty and fair play. With one new philosophy, with people who really know about sports, which sport really wants well, I think we all have to do it together and we can succeed. And as for the National Council, there are two options ahead. First, as well as the good part so far, I don't think we need the Council at all. And secondly,... and further become much more proactive, to use their knowledge, their sports experience, let's be honest in the council there are top experts and top athletes, but to use their powers, to make an active contribution to the adoption of the strategy of the programme, the new law on sports, the Law on Sport Control and all those laws, acts, regulations that have not been passed all these years. We want the Council to be a partner, a driver, an initiator, if necessary and a critic, but to really be the highest expert body for sport. Therefore, the SDP Club proposes to the Parliament to accept the Council's report on the work of the Council but also to make those commitments before the Council, to encourage the Council to work more actively and more successfully. And unless the Council finds a chance to carry out its duty, we will help them resolve them and remove that burden from their backs. There are also enough professional and smart people in Croatia who know a lot about sports and who want and can help sports and even pro bono. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5811	Thank you. We have Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic's representative to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5812	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague made an incorrect claim that sports had become the right for privileged and elite, an incorrectly dear colleague. In my midst, sport is right for all our locals who can deal with sports and we have secured the conditions for it. There are numerous examples in other environments. You of course speak from the position of Zagreb, so you had a chance in Zagreb to sort things out, do and do. But God gave you all this you said because I have at least three sports halls in my county that I'm going to tell you very clearly that we're going to run them to come true and that everyone is equal so that they can deal with sports as they do in my midst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5813	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Boris Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5814	Mr. President, Madam President of the National Sports Council, colleagues and colleagues. The National Sports Council's report itself was told by the president, and she reached most of the segments for it thank you. And the written part of this report itself is taxed on what the Council carried out for a year and a half from 18 June 2010 to 31 December 2011. The Council shall be established by a parliamentary decision based on Chapter 3 of Article 3. Sports law. Here for the sake of the public, I would now point out what all the councils are dealing with and what its powers are. The National Sports Council is the most professional body to care for the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia. The National Sports Council discusses relevant issues for sport and proposes and encourages the adoption of measures to improve the video, gives an opinion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a draft proposal for a national sport programme, sets out priority projects, elaborates and studies for their funding in the public needs system in sport, sets out guidelines for the making of rules on the categorisation of athletes, gives an opinion on training programmes for professional work in sport and sets out the conditions that must be met by the institutions for training staff in sport, sets out guidelines for the construction and categorisation of sports buildings at the level of the state, gives opinions and recommendations on the draft rules relating to sport, gives an opinion on the draft of the network building proposal and performs other tasks set out in this law and other regulations. These are the National Sports Council's intel. Article 4 The law on sports regulates the way and arrangements of the Council itself with sport. The report is very concise and speaks specifically about its concrete activities for a year and a half of its activities on 3.5 pages. But there is a much more content problem in sports, which is not implementing what the Croatian Parliament has passed in all the laws and the Law on Sports and Sublaws. And one of the things is the national sport program. The law was passed as a colleague had said before in 2006, and to this day we do not have one of the main acts that regulates sports, which is the national sport program. I'm also going to read it for the public because it's important that it's a national sport program. "The National Programme of Sports is a document that sets out the objectives and tasks of sport development, the activities of the need for the implementation of these objectives and tasks, and determines the developers of the development and control measures for its implementation. The National Sport Programme brings the Croatian Parliament to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for an 8-year period. The national sport programme must contain the conditions for sports in the education system, conditions for achieving the top results of Croatian athletes in international competitions, conditions for recreational sports activities to protect and improve the health of Croatian citizens. The national sport programme sets out the obligations of state bodies and bodies of units of local, regional (regional) self-government of the city of Zagreb, the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Paralympic Committee, the Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf, the National Sports Alliance and the Sports Communities in the implementation of established tasks. On the basis of the national sport programme of the National Sports Council, it shall adopt an annual implementation programme. I will repeat on the basis of the National Sports Council's national sport programme, it brings an annual implementation programme. For each task of the implementation of the national sport programme, holders, preparation and implementation, deadlines and sources of funding and impact assessment shall be established. The funds for the implementation of the national sport programme shall be provided in the state budget in the division of the ministry responsible for sports affairs. The authorities referred to in paragraph 4 shall submit reports to the Ministry, etc. The implementation of part of the national sport programme carried out in units of local, regional (regional) self-government and the city of Zagreb is co-financed from the budget of these units." All this stuff I've said has nothing to do with it, because there's no national program. Both with positions and the whole of this Article 2. The sport law in all paragraphs speaks of the randomity of the development of a national sport programme and it is amazing that within 6 years of the adoption of the Sport Act, no national sport programme has been adopted. This shows that the National Sports Council has been able to complete its tasks since the same national sport programme has not been adopted. The importance of sports for every country is enormous. All documents, all studies, all projects, the Sport Act, all sublegal acts speak and are positive for the development of sports improvements. Sports is a huge area of human action and sport is much, much more than football. From pre-school, primary and secondary school, through university, individual, recreational, club, top-notch, professional huge amount in the rule of young people deals with sports and should try to deal with them as much as possible. We should all play sports or recreation. There's an increasingly developed sports industry, but there's a huge sports industry. Almost all human activities are included in sport, education, science, economy, culture, entertainment, research of the human organism, scientific discoveries in the diet or, say, the elasticity of tennis shoes, the influence of artificial fibers on the speed of swimming. It developed and developed a special feature of more sophisticated production of various sports equipment. Special branches of medicine have been established and established, certain injuries are named after certain sports. There are ways by investing in a sport activity that influences other than economic activity. We in HNS have a proposal to introduce sailing as a mandatory subject in all 6th and 7th classes of primary schools on the Adriatic. Realising such a programme among other things would be a direct investment in nautical tourism. There are clear and numerous experts, trainers of all kinds who practically participate and help athletes achieve their results. Sports is an unusually complex and extensive human activity, but sport is an activity in which a huge amount of people participate with completely different positions. Some compete, while others observe and enjoy competitions and pay for it. Sportsmen include a huge amount of physical energy, effort, work and emotion, fans exhibit a huge amount of emotion. Both do so with a lot of love and passion and an active and passive toy, i.e. cheerleading participation in sports, this indescribable sense of competition spirit is involved. This passion for competition and for achieving the best results, many athletes pass on to even more numerous viewers who with no less pleasure and passion follow and sports results and feel to participants and owners, co-owners of the results achieved, all of which are passed on to young generations who see their sport idols and try to achieve their results. How important sport is and useful for the physical and psychological development of young people and prevention of deviant behavior should not even be spoken at all. The importance of sports in the international affirmation of the state is also not much to talk about. I will take this opportunity to all the top athletes who have given us so many joyous moments on behalf of the CNS, my name, I believe and many citizens thank you. The HNS wishes to point out at this time that as liberals, we consider it to be a completely inappropriate tampering of politics in practically sport. Furthermore, HNS believes that the concentration of all interested and competent sports development must be primarily focused on athletes and sports results. Everything else is accompanied by activities and contents that should continue to be in the service of development of sports and athletes. HNS believes most of the solutions in the Sport Act are good. It's good, chapter 13. The Sport-Control Act, where only two articles make it very explicit, clearly refers to the supervision of the legality of the work of inspection supervision. The law includes almost all segments, I think even all segments of sport organization, association of sports competitions, but the problem is that the law applies. With certain improvements, the law could be even more effective and we expect certain revisions of the Sport Act. I still note that it seems to me that, that is, to us in the HNS that the problem is in the application of the Sport Act. Once again, I note that it is necessary to bring the national sport programme as soon as possible. The HNS considers that the National Sports Council in the future would need to significantly increase the financial resources to make the Council more pro-pulsive and efficient, and in accordance with its law, certain activities and tasks. The Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats club will vote to accept the National Sports Council's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5815	Thank you very much. Mrs Danira Bilic, on behalf of the National Sports Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5816	Thank you very much. Well, here's the quick answer, just maybe so we don't go in the wrong direction of the next debate. Before I say specifically what I mean, let me look back on that technical error in the financial report that Mrs Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić said, and you are right, we are that, the distinguished representative Ana Krmpotić noticed, so we made that technical mistake in that financial part of the report that concerns what we were planning and we will fix it. However, this important content does not ultimately change because what has been done it stands therefore, these data are precisely written. But thank you for that observation. What I would certainly like to repeat after this payphone is that it must be taken care of what is the authority of the National Sports Council. In fact, since we started making certain studies, we have already received some remarks where we were called to do a national sport program that is not in our jurisdiction. So that's the same fact, not in our jurisdiction, but in the intelligence of the ministry and the government. At least that's what the law says if it doesn't change. So the National Council does not produce a national sport programme, it is produced by the Ministry and the Government, and then the National Council gives its opinion and gives operational plans at the annual level. And in other words, the National Sports Council, when it started a year and a half ago with its work, could have played an alibi game and said no national program, no network, no other sublegal acts, so we basically have nothing else to do but wait when someone sends an opinion and we give our opinion. But at least we've taken a proactive role, we've identified the situation, and we've informed the public about it because every time you have a press release on the Ministry's website under the link of the National Sports Council. So we haven't been silent, we've informed the public, but we're aware that we haven't really taken a proactive role, and we're going into designing the concept, and that's why this program of analysis and study, so also these studies that we've started making and that's what we've proposed, and they're just going to be, they're in our jurisdiction, and they're going to be the basis for what we don't have, and that's the national program. We don't have a rule on the necessary professional preparation and training of the coach. We've done a study of Coaches and professional affairs which is now an excellent basis for it. So now there's no reason why you shouldn't pass that sublegal act. However, once again, the National Sports Council is making proposals but they do not have to be respected. And you saw in the report, something accepted, something not accepted. It will also be during this term of office. We've put forward our proposal for a programme plan and it's not as respected as we've given it. We have received 400,000 kuna funds from the National Council, but we are told that from other funds going under the Ministry that will still be doing these project studies that are needed. Well, they're primarily needed by the executive to build a quality national program. I will remind you, it has already tried several times to create a strategy for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia, so in 2000 President Mesic formed a working group and they did. However, precisely because of the lack of the document of quantified and qualitative data, it has never recovered. Are we gonna make the same mistake again? Three times the Sports Act has changed since it was first passed in 14 years. There has never been an analysis of the impact of measures through this law but has always been done in the making of new laws. A network of sports facilities was mentioned. Indeed, the network of sports facilities is gone, it is necessary. It's a material basis for sports. So, that fundamental assumption that we even engage as many children and young as possible, which is a top priority should be at least every strategy of the development of sport. However, most colleagues here, most MPs in the Croatian Parliament do not know, but in the City Assembly they know that we tried, at least in the City Assembly to bring a network at the city level, if it was not made at the state level. So why wouldn't the city of Zagreb be the first? Unfortunately, however, it did not pass. It's something that suggests why a network of sports facilities is extremely important to bring as soon as possible. Because it is a reservation of space in spatial plans, and spatial plans are in the authority of the county and the authority of the city of Zagreb. And when we speak, it was said how everything was violated by the rules in sports, etc. etc. What you need to know and be clear is that the area of sport in the Republic of Croatia is regulated not only by the Law on Sports, but also by a series of other laws. First of all, the Law on Associations, as well as the Budget Act relating to the field of sport as well as other areas, as well as the Law on Local Self-Government and a series of regulations and acts adopted on local self-government. Therefore, when we talk about controlling the purpose of spending financial resources in sport, when we talk about other things, it does not result in all the mistakes of the Sport Act but also because, unfortunately, many regulations, many acts that regulate the field of sport do not apply. And I am personally more than convinced that the first real step in the further functioning of sports at national level would be to start respecting existing legal regulations, frameworks, regulations and criteria that exist anywhere, even if these criteria are flexible but start to be respected. That would be the first stronger step. And second, to analyze the effect of being respected that then we can know which way we're going to go on... a way to improve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so, the National Council, I'm going to repeat it again, it didn't come out of its frame. We have exclusively dealt with what is our legal obligation. And more than that, when we realized what was not done, we acted proactively and created a basis, or we suggest. But of course I'll repeat once again we don't have operational capabilities, we don't have operational powers, and we'll always depend on whether or not we'll accept something that we're directing to, suggest, or not accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5817	Thank you, too. Madam President, we have a request to correct the incorrect allegations on your exhibit. Dear Representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5818	Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President. I'd just like to take what you're exhibiting which I find incorrect, on the matter of making certain legal proposals, on the matter of changing your role and not, the National Sports Council, because you've been appointed by the Parliament to be the link between the Parliament and the executive authority. So what I resent as a representative is that you have to have this much more active role and that you have to report to that body that chose you where there are certain ambiguities, where certain non-dynamics are good. So, proactively, we influence both the Parliament and the National Sports Council to make documents as soon as possible that are the most important. And yet you're here to tell us what the priority is by respecting your expertise, that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5819	Thank you, too. The following has been registered for discussion by the Croatian Retirement Party club, the respected representative Zeljko Šemper. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5820	Dear Vice President, Madam President of the National Council, colleagues and colleagues. The National Sports Council is the most professional body to care for the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia, and according to the law and defined tasks. Among other things, the Council sets out guidelines for making rules on the categorization of athletes, and therefore also on the fees of top athletes. It is certainly necessary to respect the great successes of Croatian athletes in international competitions that in the promotion of the Croatian state, especially in the 1990s, have done more than all of our embassies in the world. There was enough anywhere in the world to ask for Croatia, and the answer was always known by Shuker or Ivanišević. On the basis of the adopted programme, the National Council has proposed, among other things, a very important development of a project to study sports financing in the Republic of Croatia, because it is the most important segment for sport in Croatia to be high-level. The information provided by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is entitled by categorized athletes to sports scholarships paid by the Croatian Olympic Committee, the county and city communities and sports clubs. The Croatian Olympic Committee issues and solutions on the categorization of top athletes and the amount of compensation for those who have become owners of gold, silver and bronze medals. And that's not a question, that's not a problem. Today I would like to point out the big problem of realising these solutions to the Croatian Olympic Committee and paying a certain fee to medal winners. Mostly, this obligation falls under the burden of city sports communities or clubs that lack funds for such payment. And that's not good, because the payment of fees depends on which city a member or member of the team comes from, whether he comes from Zagreb, Split, Rijeka or maybe from small Koprivnica, depending on whether he gets a full, certain fee, half a fee or doesn't get anything. I've had the honor of being a member and spokeswoman of a small club but the great top scores of the country's multiple champions, one year of Europe's champions and the third in the world. In the club there was also the best player in the sport which, with a number of individual and team world medals, became the world champion at the world record. Although the solution of the Croatian Olympic Committee has become a first-class athlete because of the thin city or club register, it has never been able to receive the same fee received by representative colleagues from the rich sports communities of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, whatever. The National Council has delivered its opinion that permanent cash compensation should be achieved by all medal winners at the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games and the Olympic Games of the Deaf, who would resolve the status of top athletes in the Republic of Croatia. The question arises what about world medal winners in sports that are not classified in Olympic sports? Are the world's top scores and medals less valuable than medals in Olympic sports? And in them is also a great effort, shed a lot of sweat although it is small sports such as bowling. Because of all this, we feel that there must be no injustice in sports because it is certainly not a motive for superior results. There must be no difference whether it is a popular or less popular sport and whether the medal is won in an Olympic or non-Olympic discipline. As for the compensation of top athletes, it would be good for such payments to come from a common medal fund at country level, not on the burden of a particular club or city. The most important thing is to equally value the top results depending on the glow of the winning medal. We hope that the envisaged, I think now the fifth amendments and additions to the Sport Act, will solve a major problem from the way of funding to the database that is not available, about the number of clubs, the number of athletes to the number and state of our sports facilities. The Croatian Party of Retired Persons will support this Report of the National Sports Council, which should be addressed so far in the envisaged guidelines and the new Croatian Sport Strategy. We believe that the National Council should play a major role in this, given that it is comprised of professional people, or formerly known athletes, conquerors of world and Olympic medals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5821	Thank you, too. Next for discussion on behalf of the HDSSB club, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5822	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable President Danir, colleagues and fellow MPs. This report, which has been substrated today The report of the National Sports Council, as it is officially called and the debate that was held here, as well as the speech of the Honorable President, actually testifys a little bit and I would say, feels one little bit though this topic is supposed to be somehow easy for the Croatian Parliament today, but one bitterness in terms of the overall state of Croatian sport. Of course, it is absolutely not the fault of the National Sports Council but of many other factors that the National Council President has listed here. So, from both local communities and the ministry and everyone else. Well first of all, only the ministry in its name, here we didn't agree whether sport or sport is, 'cause the National Council is for sport, and the Ministry is called science, education and sports. Well, since we already have a challenge, then it's clear that we have a lot of objections in other places, and also about this report and about the National Sports Council. In this report, I would say a number of advisory bodies, bodies that have, a council that has one advisory role, are often mentioned precisely these forms of action by the National Council. So he says that the said programme in 2010 provides for the production of studies. So, predicted. Next, the National Sports Council considers it necessary to develop a series of project studies. Well then, the Council is also of the opinion that the creation of extended project studies would be the first step towards making full studies called the Sports Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia. The National Sports Council says it can establish a working body. It can start, and it started two, right? Finally, page 6 states that the guidelines of the rules of categorized athletes were adopted at the 10th session of the National Council. So, guidelines, again just guidelines. Clearly, the National Sports Council is not an executive body, there is no legal personality in that sense and that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports should now implement such guidelines. E problems or problems in the plural in Croatian sport are really great. I was the president of the women's basketball club "Boat", as Mrs. Nakic was a basketball player, she knew this women's basketball club "Brod" which at one point reached, was the First B League, and at one point we came into a situation, the club came into a situation to play the last round with the table and clearly on the home court victory was more than certain even though it was always in the sport of the ball round and in basketball, except in football. So, the coach, then coach of the women's basketball club "Boat" told me as president that they must lose the last game. So, they have to lose so they don't move to a higher ranking competition because there's no money for a higher rank competition. So they have to lose to be others on the table to stay in the same level of competition. Look at the situation where I was standing as president, except I was president for a year and it would actually be better to call me not a president than a beggar because I was doing this function, begging various companies to make private, city, which would be better to buy tennis shoes with certain basketball shoes that had been spent, spent, torn up, and it didn't matter, up to uniforms, to pay for the bus to travel to Pula, Varazdin or where they had already gone to allow them to travel with minimal funds or to go to a sport meeting with other teams from the First B League for free. A year later, I realized I wasn't the president, but I gave him my resignation, without any reason, clearly. E, when the situation in our sport will change, when we get the necessary one, to say not only the excellence that we are proud of and who gives us the gift not to list from someone said by Ivanisevic, Blanca Vlasic and all the other athletes who passed the Croatian name on the sports scene and even in Indonesia when I was aware of Suker, is it, they do not say Šuker. So, once again, the number of great athletes who belong to the category of excellent. Croatia will be even more prominent on the world sports scene. The Sports Council also issued a financial report, and in that financial report, which was last page 19, it tells me that a total of 854 thousand kuna was spent for a year and a half around the work of the National Council. Of which, in 2010, then, in that half of the year when the National Sports Council was formed 132 thousand and in 2011. Seven hundred and twenty-two thousand. In what is specifically about these money that is difficult to say that in today's crisis a high amount or not, it is a relatively relative notion that I would not enter into a debate about the amount of these funds, but under number 4 in that table it is written that the study of trainers and professional jobs in Croatian sport was made. So it is the only concrete but what has actually been done and what the National Sports Council has implemented from its plans that are listed here is making studies, trainers and professional jobs in Croatian sport that cost 295 thousand and 200 kuna. Unfortunately, I say, what has not been carried out and there has been a public competition, another study that seems to me not to be more useful, but more important for Croatian sport this study has not yet come to or is in the stage of the competition for making, because there has been a complaint, these complications which are probably related to public procurement, etc. Since we see that the Ministry and the new minister have a lot of ambitions other than science and education and sport, therefore, we hope that these opinions will be speeded up, forecasts of study will be accelerated, the implementation of guidelines drawn up by the National Sports Council in this report will be accelerated. So, given that I do not have any particular objection, and given the known situation in sport that I do not blame exclusively for the National Sports Council, the HDSB Club will still remain on this report. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5823	Thank you, too. The next club is the Croatian Democratic Community Club and a respected representative of the Suncana Glavak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5824	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues. In his Report of the Council, among other things, states that while respecting the great successes of Croatian athletes in international competitions, and the great role of sports in Croatian society, it considers it necessary to draw together objective, precise and complete indicators of the current state of Croatian sport. A number of project studies should certainly be developed to allow for a clearer state of play in the sport system. These studies would be the first step for a full strategy for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia, whose design is planned by 2013. The Council considers that this study and the legislator would serve as a basis for the development of a national sport programme, which would set out the objectives and tasks of the development of sport, the activities necessary for the implementation of those objectives, and for the development and control measures of their implementation. The great importance and impact of sports activities on everyday life makes sport unequivocal to social but economic phenomena, which, apart from physical activity, favours health, maintains values such as team spirit, solidarity and tolerance, and thus strengthens social cohesion and human capital. Some of this, I think, would be taken from me by representatives in the Croatian Parliament, so perhaps in a concrete or better way, we might be able to co-operate. The sport, of course, is based on the principle of volunteering and must be as it is heard here today, equally available to everyone, regardless of age, race, sex, sexual orientation, religion, nationality. The law on sport defines parts of modern sport, sport system, persons in the system of sport, sports activities, so let's not confuse what it does or what the Sport Act is talking about, and we need to distinguish what the National Sports Council is dealing with, or the National Sports Council's competences for sport from other institutions that are being called today, perhaps wrongly in the National Sports Council's competences that must be handled by all observed irregularities that were most frequently mentioned or some other nature. In view of the legal commitment of the National Sports Council, our opinion has begun to fulfil the obligations and tasks and has made a strong step in considering and planning the long-term development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, we believe that the Council, which is largely made up of top athletes, should be more strongly involved at lower or lowest levels where sport is often placed mainly on the margins of budgetary entities for financial reasons, thereby reducing that precious base from which top athletes should be created. I am reminding you that the best or first promoter of Croatia from its independence and by the results that athletes once recognized small countries have won, made us proud or famous around the world. I will only remember Drazen Petrovic, a colleague here mentioned Shuker, I will mention Goran Ivanisevic who, in his years of war, built bridges and fought in their own way for Croatia. Today, when our financial opportunities are of course, if we compare them with those of the 1990s, much greater sport should be given an opportunity to maintain its status as promoter of Croatia. In this respect, the HDZ Club will accept the National Sports Council report, expecting further moves and efforts and introducing order in financial, educational and humane terms, in line with legal opportunities, taking steps to improve sport. Similarly, we feel that we should finally decide what sports are of national importance, so according to results, traditions, world reputations, but we also consider a key problem of categorising athletes, a system of funding mainly based on improvisation, individualisation and private connections, which should be changed as soon as possible and especially improved when we talk about national selections. He has problems, but I believe that the National Sports Council can meet them within the framework of legal obligations, and equally so that we, as advocates, can, by our suggestions and by our actions, improve them. So not only talk about financial problems that most often sting clubs but talk about all those aspects of sport that are important to its functioning. The HDZ Club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5825	Thank you, too. We have one request to correct the incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5826	Thank you. A respected colleague said that today’s financial opportunities for the development of sports were far greater than in the 1990s, 1980s, or 2000s. I say they're far less. It... every unit of local self-government and see that the only cities, municipalities, districts and which follow sport, that you can no longer find with a candle who are ready, honor the exceptions, but it is an exception that confirms this rule that you can very hard find someone who will be a donor in sport. The only way in which this sport in Croatia will go forward to drive organized crime, bookies and anything cloudy about Croatian sport out of the sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5827	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the lists of clubs that wanted to talk about this topic. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of ten-minute MPs. The first person to speak was Honored Representative Sasa Djujic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5828	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Bilic, colleagues and colleagues. The position of sports in Croatia today is in an extremely bad situation. In Croatian sport we find a number of problems, and the biggest ones are mentioned here many times today and these are non-transparent and uncontrolled funding, the position of athletes, the state of sports infrastructure and equipment, the conditions in which athletes work and the like. When collective sports are at stake in Croatia, unfortunately only representations work. Croatian sport has been negligible for years, the problems have mostly been pushed under the carpet and obviously there was no will and no interest in the law on sport being implemented, the problems being solved, to improve the position of athletes, to monitor and control funding, and then it led to opening up a space for corruption, hunting in murky and creating an ugly picture of sports and athletes, and apparently it was a state of someone and it was appropriate. It sounds amazing that in Croatia today in the 21st century we do not have a number of civil servants, a list of state property, a list of inhabitants, a sorted catastrian book, and when it comes to sports, we do not have the number of athletes, the number of clubs per branch, the number of sports facilities, their condition and the most important means go to sports funding. When it comes to the work of the National Sports Council as the largest expert body, I expected in their report to locate and highlight specific problems in sport but also proposals for solutions to these problems and legal initiatives and measures to address these problems. The National Sports Council as the largest expert body to gather the biggest experts in the area should be familiar with all the problems, initiate solutions and work on constant pressure on the ministry and government to solve these things. The National Sports Council may also set up working bodies in which other experts may be involved but instead the Council has directed its work to study and appointed working bodies for the production of studies which they order. These studies cost and the competitions for their production are conducted by the ministry and then the question arises whether we need the council in the first place since studies can be ordered by the ministry without councils. I don't mind giving fees to professional people to pay for their work to reward people working on studies and projects but let them do so within the council as members of the working body because they have this possibility legally. If the council has had some problems in work so far and has not been able to work more actively to highlight the problem and offer solutions, then it was necessary to point out any problems, obstacles to work or lack of better quality support and interest in the ministry. I think you should have pointed that out a little more aggressively in the past. I hope that in its further work, the council will turn to more active and determined proposals and encourage the adoption of measures to improve sports and improve the situation in sport, not just by making studies, by the fact that the new government and resolute minister have announced clearing the situation in sport, changes to the Sport Act, improving the position of athletes, transparency of funding, but also greater concern for sport in full. Croatia has top athletes in almost all sports with top and outstanding results that we are all proud of. That is why it is up to all of us to create conditions and to say that we are proud of the overall Croatian sport and the state of sport as a whole. Our athletes deserve it. I will support this report with a note again that we expect more active council work so far and I have no doubt that you will have support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5829	Thank you, Your Honor. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired at 12.25 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're going forward with the debate. The Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol has 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5830	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs. Nakic. So actually like this, I'll at first actually express my regret that we really as agents got into the hands of it first just a report that in itself really doesn't have too much basis for discussion. What is much more important to me and much more is written in those accompanying documents that are not actually delivered to us by CD, but are published on the Assembly's website. So I would actually look at the problem of women in sports in my presentation, but also using some of the information published in this material of yours that has the title as working material "The fundamental principles and guidelines for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia". I personally experience it as a good basis, a contribution to lighting, only part of the contribution to lighting the situation, to considering the situation, to analyse the situation we have today in sport, whether it's a top sport or an amateur sport. And I expect it to be in some way perhaps a basic starting point for what will tomorrow be called a national programme for the development of Croatian sport. What I welcome in this material is on the one hand a special chapter that talks about women in sports. In fact, the problem of women in sports is a problem that is almost not talked about at all, or is spoken in a slow manner here and there if it comes to a "scandal" or something like that. In particular, the problem of women in sports in our media is hardly said, and if spoken with sensationalist notes, and I especially think about our public television about sports programs for women, and there are almost no specific programs. Why did I say I'd talk about women in sports? On the one hand, the fact is that in Croatia too few people are engaged in sports or men or women. Only about 10% of the total population of men in Croatia is engaged in sports, and when it comes to female populations, that percentage is poor 2.3%. So 2.3% of the total female population in Croatia is engaged in some organised sports activity. When we look at the data that you gave in this material in 2009 from the total number of athletes, or persons who were only 18.8% of that number, it is a female population, and what is still devastating is that compared to the 2006 data, it is a decline of just over 1%. So instead of taking the years to go, following certain recommendations that exist at different levels outside Croatia and in which conferences are attended by representatives of our organisations, this decline is evident from women's participation in sports activities. When we talk about management positions today somewhere below 9% of women are located in various management positions in different alliances local, regional, state, etc. So one miserable number. What I also noticed, I also looked at this study that was done, which talks about coaches and professional jobs in Croatian sport. That's one of the studies you've given to make. Only 6% of the total number of trainers are women, but what is even more devastating is that of those 6% more than 70% of them have insufficient qualifications. And this tells us about the problem of how and how in Croatian society we approach this problem. But I'm going to use this to highlight one convenient piece of information or two hot data from that material. First, I find it inadmissible that in this study where the survey was sought, so surveying lists were asked to deliver data only 44 Croatian national alliances each provided data, and 38 of them were not included at all. And it speaks in some way about the relationship of our national alliances, so I would say in your position, in relation to the National Council, so it goes towards the need for the National Council as such to be more prominent through its action, public statements, etc. Because there are opportunities under the Sport Act, but I guess with some new sport law, we'll define that part further. And that's what I'll mention when we talk about data, the Croatian Football Federation has provided information on coaches, but it has not shown how many female trainers there are, noting that the system of records does not allow them to sort according to sex, and then they estimate that there are only a few promo coaches in football. I think it is absolutely inadmissible, but unfortunately I can make a note there that as far as the Croatian Football Federation is concerned, it seems to be expected. But what also bit me in the eye, when we're talking about that part of the material, and that's in some of the recommendations and goals that these studies are trying to give to themselves or to all of us that we're a little unambitious, in the sense that we're predicting that the number of female trainers is increasing from 6% to 10% in the next 10 years. I don't think that way we're ever going to actually, like, encourage ourselves to get those numbers that would be normal. And I'll end with that, you've made certain recommendations in this part of the material that applies to women and sports, you've set the goals that you want to achieve. However, I have been reviewing these goals, recommendations from that part of the material compared to other parts of the material, saying that when it comes to the need to identify new, different ways or to say certain measures that will contribute to specific funding, the practice of women by sport. In that part of the material that speaks of financing and what should be done, this measure is not incorporated. So, I wouldn't want this material to happen if one part of what you've done in the sport is, let's say, women, that these guidelines don't be incorporated into these other parts. Because if they're not incorporated, it'll be like one chapter. And I think in the basic principles that apply, so at the very beginning when it comes to sports, it's about tradition. But somehow I miss, I miss that in Croatia we should break some traditions not only that in an adequate way the sports that are traditionally related to one or another sex are valorized, but also that it means breaking traditions, that there are women and not in some way their own, in some perception that they too must be engaged in sports. And I miss you especially in this first part where you talk about this tradition of sports is not the goal of just raising the quality of sport at all levels. The goal is that the more mass involvement, here we are somewhere in these beginnings of these fundamental principles, the more mass involvement of all sports activities. I'm thinking about men and women now. Finally, there is a commission called the Sports Women's Care Commission at the Croatian Olympic Committee. We talked to the President of the Commission, Mrs Gruden-Palikovic, on a round table the other day, and we begged her not to call it the Sports Women's Care Commission. Let's call it the Sports Women's Commission, the Sports Women's Commission, because it's a little bit like taking care of the elderly, the powerless, the needy, etc., and I think as long as we look at women in sports, I'm afraid there will be no movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5831	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5832	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Sobol, appreciating what you said about including women in sports, I would like to replicate and tell you that I may be more concerned that the fewer children get involved in sports activities and not my own guilt. So, women to the choice, to the possibility, to what their obligations allow. But it also concerns the fact that the base that should be done, so I'm going back to what started with that base, that's where top athletes are born, so I'm going to refer to what it says in the National Sports Council report. For example, it is unacceptable for aunts in kindergartens who are absolutely not qualified for adequate training of children to carry out such training, engage in sports activities and, in addition, charge especially. Of course, we can't discuss it, or we can, but that's at the level of cities, municipalities or counties and that it's in their jurisdiction and that it needs to be reconsidered and we think it's worrying. So, the more children to engage in sports activities, allow them to do this, not inexperienced personnel dealing with children, to educate the people for which there are assumptions. And I'll say about the money, the most fucked when you're going to fuck the budget or the first thing that goes down is culture and sport. And let's not lie to it, we all know where it's going to end up with sports and culture first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5833	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5834	I agree with you, so one of our larger areas of interest should be both and as many as possible, making as many children involved in sports activities as possible. When I was talking about women in sports, I wasn't just thinking about women who were 18, 20, 25 or 30, I was thinking about all the women's populations. And statistics show that those who are available as they are in fact show that at a younger age a much smaller number of girls than boys are engaged in sports, and they are particularly lost in puberty. And here as a society, we don't do enough. That's clear. As far as financial resources are concerned. It is clear that the financial resources allocated are absolutely not sufficient and that this national-level story will have no results unless it is incorporated and brought down to the minimum local levels. But I think that there is a very important role both for the state and the competent ministry and for the entire government. Because I'll just remind you that over the last few years millions of kunas have crashed on the construction of grand halls, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas, euros, whatever you want in grand halls, and at the same time, maybe that money could be separated and directed towards some smaller sports facilities of playgrounds and so forth. I believe that this greatest role has held exactly the position of the then Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5835	Thank you very much. Next in ten minutes, respected representative Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5836	Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the National Sports Council, the representative of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. During the presentation of the Law on Sports, i.e. putting on the feet of the National Sports Council, then Resolute Minister Dragan Primorac is still in 2006. For years, he presented it as a quote of a body that proposes measures to improve sports, sets priorities and projects but also discusses the biggest issues that are important for Croatian sport on which no other body, no matter how brilliant or good it can be seen as a Council. Unfortunately, Mr. Primorac and I must inform all citizens that the National Sports Council has not done its job well enough. Sports in Croatia are still not accessible systematically enough. When we talk about legislation in sport, about the adoption of sublegal acts, when we talk about the creation of strategies and the National Programme, the establishment of a National Sports Council, the appointment of members of that Council, about their report, I will express myself in sports language not playing well. Why? Some of my colleagues have already mentioned it, but I don't think it's bad to say it again. Because we failed to pass the sublaws of the Law on Sports, we did not bring the National Programme of Sports, let alone the strategy for the development of sports in our country. No serious analysis of existing legal solutions and their effects has been made in practice, and with the establishment, i.e. The appointment of the National Council has been delayed for years. So, when we talk about the work of the National Sports Council, that is, its report submitted to the Croatian Assembly on good faith, I will say once again we cannot be completely satisfied with what we can read in the report. Because the way and dynamics of this expert body are described are not in line with the current problems in sport. Project studies and strategies, which are made 4, 5, 6 years under modern conditions of sport development, are certainly obsolete, and money spent in such strategies is unfortunately wasted in vain. It is therefore necessary to dynamic the work of this expert body and make it more efficient and direct than the current problems in sport. In its document, therefore, the fundamental principles and guidelines for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia, which was developed by the National Sports Council working group, states that a number of studies and analyses of individual Croatian sports systems need to be developed, how strategic objectives of future action in the field of sport should be defined, how it is necessary to develop a clear, concrete and enforceable National Sport Development Programme. But it's all true and everything's fine, you wrote it all well, we all agree, but in those tasks where you had a key factor, actually in the solutions you had a key factor, you weren't proactive, you weren't dynamic enough in my opinion in your work. Because the council adopted, for example, a program of drawing up analytical and strategic documents and studies for a period of four years, you consider it necessary to make 14 of these project studies so that now I don't list them all, but in a year and a half how many approximately two studies exist, which means that if we continue at this rate it takes another 6 years to see all these studies. So, let's do the National Sports Program. So at this rate somewhere for maybe even 7.8 years. By then, of course, the strategies developed last year will be so outdated that their usability will be very, very questionable. It is not acceptable for us to weigh the selective orientation of the National Sports Council on the needs of top sports without a concentration on ensuring better accessibility of sports for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so I wish that the Council members were appointed and the persons who stood out in amateur sports. We hope to do so in the next period, in the next term. Because the essence of working for sport is how to make that sport i.e. The sports system is better, i.e. that the result of our professional athletes is even better, and so that the function for which sport exists is fulfilled, which is that people deal with it and be healthy. Croatian sports at all levels are expected to be a driver for society, to be a driver for healthy lifestyles, and we must help everyone. And especially that pace must be given by you as the most professional body of course. So you have to be proactive again because it's actually your job. And I ask those who write or sign reports like this not to insult the reader of those reports because I believe in unintentional mistakes forcing us to question them. For example, at the beginning of the report, they argue that a particular strategy was developed by the Faculty of Kinesiology in Zagreb, and eventually reports that the same strategy was developed by a 3-member evaluation committee appointed by the minister. For example, in part of the financial report, travel expenses, i.e. the costs of meetings in Split, Rijeka and Osijek, and in short reports with 16 sessions held. Their own records indicate that all sessions are held except for two held in Zagreb. So sport plays a significant educational and educational role in the lives of children and young people. Joining the team, feeling together, solidarity, promoting principles such as fair play and respect for everyone helps build a better society. The influence of the media in sports promotion is also unquestioned. They influence change and perception of attitudes, drive action and encourage change. The media therefore bear great responsibility because selecting content and ways to present athletes and athletes promotes certain sports affects public attitudes. Not entering the editorial policy of some sports newsrooms, however, I will say that it is unacceptable for Croatian athletes' sports successes at European and world levels to be shown only after a third-rate football game report. So we don't do enough to change the situation where children sit in front of television or all day playing computer games, so we don't do much to change the situation in which our nation precedes obesity in Europe, and we know that excessive weight and its consequences can only be prevented by healthy eating habits and sports. Discussing sports, sports problems are not really common, and when they are, they come down to corruption and I'm going to use a mild word of non-sports-outs of individuals. I am therefore pleased, and we at the HNS club, which will soon be launched and a broad structured public debate on the role and development of sports or sports in the Republic of Croatia, and that on our benches we will soon find a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Sports or Sports as you will by whose adoption I am sure to introduce more order into our sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5837	Thank you, too. We have a single replica reported. Honorable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad that you mentioned this very educational dimension of sport because actually the meaning of sport is not the production of athletes, or medals, it's the consequence of sport mostly involving as many young people as possible in sports activities, and that's how we act educationally, and then we'll also have the inclusion of older ones, or one health dimension of sport that you mentioned. I would also say that so far this ministry has been one of the weakest links, i.e. in sport the ministry was the weakest link because when you look at all the athletes who have achieved great successes they have achieved it either by including some sports clubs or at a time when they went to schools. So I'm thinking that exactly the ministry should work on this, on this mass inclusion, and that can actually be through physical activity, through a variety of other dimensions of sport, through let's say that in this way schools are recruiting centres where they're actually going to be and how they're going to involve as many children in sport as possible. Not to mention this second part of the development of sports, it's city sports alliances, but now we're not gonna talk about it. I therefore believe that this particular educational function of sport is very important and that the ministry should work on it through schools as recruiting centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5839	Thank you, too. Next up for a ten-minute debate, Honorable Representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5840	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Council, dear colleagues and colleagues. For many years now, I have been engaged in sports as a karate coach and athlete, so I am particularly interested in the work of the National Sports Council. This Council proposes several studies, which I consider an important task as they would become the basis for the development of a strategy for sport development in the Republic of Croatia. Which is necessary for further improving sports in Croatia and which is already being done. The National Sports Council also states that it supports the Croatian Olympic Committee's objective of promoting Croatian sport as a whole as well as fundamental Olympic principles and values. I would refer to the work of the Croatian Karate Alliance which is not mentioned in this Report. However, he is a member of the mentioned Croatian Olympic Committee and is a national sports alliance and is therefore important for Croatian sport. I will give the following examples: First of all, the big problem is the question of the term of office of the president and members of the Management Board, today the president of the Croatian Karate Alliance has been in the position since 1995, as well as the secretary of the full 17 years. It is interesting that such a constitutional solution to the unlimited number of mandates that the president can handle have been approved by the authorities themselves. It is necessary to limit the number of terms of office of the president to a maximum of 8 years. This kind of non-limitation leads to the privatisation of the Alliance and nepotism. The whole family is employed in karate alliance. So the son of the president of the Union, employed as judge organizer, his daughter as coach, while his wife is the main supplier of sports equipment for karate clubs. The financial reports of the karate alliance, which are adopted without discussion, are also problematic. The budget of the Croatian Karate Alliance is 2.5 million kuna, and in the financial report is item of 350,000 kuna. It was placed in the category of other costs. In other organizations when something is in that category, it requires a detailed explanation especially when it comes to such a large amount. When it comes to non-transparency in the spending of finance, I will also mention the senior championship in Zagreb which was held in 2009 in the organization of the Croatian Karate Alliance. An analysis of the organisation of the championship has never been published, nor has the final account been published and the sponsorship contracts are on the questionnaire. It's been delivered to the State's Attorney's Office but we don't have any feedback as far as I've been told by some clubs. Also members of the Croatian Karate Alliance are forced by the statute of the alliance to a permanent conflict of interest, so no person can be a judge unless he is a member of the Croatian Karate Alliance. And by the statutes, that means he has to be a member of some club. As a rule, all the judges of the Croatian Karate Alliance have their own clubs that compete in the state championships and judge their competitors. In addition, the Council publicly boasts the medals of competitors who were in the European and world competitions. Although they have nothing to do with this success because they only provide them with roads and accommodation. And not always. Sometimes their money is refunded only if they won the medal, that means that the contestant travels to the championship as a private person, and in case he wins the medal then it is the success of the Croatian Karate Alliance. So some of the main problems in the Croatian Karate Alliance are related to non-transparent spending of money and the acquisition of functions. The question is how much does the president of the Croatian Karate Alliance make and how much. How to use official vehicles, supply of sports equipment, etc. It is not only that an individual is benefiting from this condition, but it is also questionable to respect one of the principles of the Olympic Committee, which is good sport management, obviously that there are... ethnic positions that are contained in concepts of spirit and sport and fair play. In the case of dealing with individual interests, their goals are not to develop a particular branch of sport, but to gain personal benefit. The spirit of sport includes in the first place the honesty and respect of the general rules and I wonder where this came from in the case of leadership of the Croatian Karate Alliance. The leadership of the Croatian Karate Alliance is questionable and this situation has been maintained for more than 15 years. It's time for the status quo for the changes. For all of this, it would be good for the National Sports Council to discuss the issue with President Danir Bilic. In addition, I call on the Ministry of Education and Sports as well as the Croatian Olympic Committee to react since the alliance is their member. All of this would also be in line with Minister Jovanovic's plan to introduce order into Croatian sport. I must point out that I had several e-mails that had and had an objection to the Croatian Karate Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5841	Thank you too, colleague. The following has been reported for a debate of 10 minutes by Honorable Representative Igor Češek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5842	Your Honor, Vice President of the National Sports Council. It is absolutely certain that in the Republic of Croatia the sport itself has a long tradition and a great role because we are aware of how many people in Croatia are engaged in sports or professionally or recreationally and most interestingly it would be if they made a comparison of how many citizens watch the champion league on TV and how much transfer of the session of the Croatian Parliament. You yourself said at the beginning of your exposure that for 20 years, unfortunately, no public strategy for sports development has been adopted. Finally, since 14 July 2010, the National Sports Council has been active. The National Sports Council is the most professional body concerned with the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia, which plays a role in making a clear strategy for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. With the very program defined, I read from your report, 14... study, sport in contemporary Croatian society, facilities and equipment, school sport and sports at higher schools, top sports, sports recreation, sports persons with disabilities, sports in the military and police, trainers, professional staff,... sports and sports legislation in the Republic of Croatia, sports financing, interstate and international cooperation in sport, scientific research in sport. Health care of athletes and women in sports. The Council, I continue to read, is a council opinion that the production of individual studies would be a first step towards making full studies called sports development strategies in the Republic of Croatia and whose production is foreseen in 2013. Since these 14 points have been done in your 18-month activity only one study, coaches and professional jobs in Croatian sport. I highly doubt that you will succeed in this strategy by 2013. As I have already mentioned, I am extremely pleased that the National Sports Council is what was founded, but I would warn you that we should speed up a little bit because the problem of sports itself in the Republic is not insignificant. Let's just remember, I just have to mention it because I was terribly shaken by the story of young athlete Franjo Opaček, who is homeless, and for seven years, the state champion in Taekwondo was the winner of the gold medal and the title of world champion in Teakwondo. The cities and municipalities themselves should also pay much more attention to sport, of course, when the state would provide them with certain financial resources. Some cities recognized the importance of sports. So here I come from Slatina I have an example where we or the mayor and the current government created a grand stadium for the NK Slatine that plays in the 3rd League of the North. An 8 million kuna stadium built in the economic field, and I have to say how many of us in Slatina are real athletes when we have 3600 unemployed and 2800 employees and we work stadiums, so here's one proof that the Croats prefer sports to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5843	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5844	Thank you. Indeed, a colleague is right when he said that the lack of a strategy is one of the biggest factors affecting the situation in Croatian sport and the success of all individuals, representations. I'd like it to be in basketball, but with Drazen Petrovic's death, it's obviously starting to stagnate. And it's time for him to come back in those sports to tell those paths of success and glory. I'm not going to mention any individuals now, but I especially want to look back here, and this is exactly the strategy that all countries have in practice in the environment, because first of all, it's better to carry out prevention than to treat certain social anomalies expensively, but this strategy has to solve the issue of sports utility infrastructure. These aren't stadiums in economic zones, sports centres based on all kinds of sports. I'm just going to say one example that's been tied up that I've made several requests to the former ministry since the Athletic Club works in Djakov that the city of Djakovo has organised a total municipal infrastructure for approval for setting up the tartan trail, never been a positive response. And I hope this new ministry has to help this national council make such a strategy as well. The most devastating would be if the ministry were involved I end up, in solving the staff solutions in certain areas of sports, was it the Croatian Football Federation or was the Karate Alliance, because this job of the ministry did not. [[/Intruder: Time, Your Honor.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5845	Thank you very much. Let us give 10 minutes of attention for the debate of the respected representative Sima Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll keep my report as short as possible. I think colleagues and colleagues have said a lot in an individual debate but I would like to draw attention to that we have more based on the situation in Croatian sport than on the National Sports Council report. Well, I'm not criticizing it, but it's understandable, but it's connected to each other. My opinion is that we have to determine what we want, whether we want a healthy nation or we want to invest in athletes and ask them for top sports results. It's already business at the end. I think it's better to have our children play sports first because they say sports culture is part of a single person's culture, one nation's people. And that's why it's important for me to start with kindergarten and elementary school, but with that kind of baby being run by professional people. If the law on elementary and high school says that teachers in primary and high school must be a person of VSS, that and that study must be completed then we must believe in that expertise and believe. My opinion is that we should continue physical and health culture and in primary school mainly in the classroom and in high school with 2 hours to move to 3 hours and strive that each child knows one of the world languages, that it is informative in writing and strive to deal with one of the sports mainly with basic sports, which is athletics, sports gymnastics, swimming. For swimming is a condition for swimming to deal with children in the continental part we will wait a little while because building a pool is expensive, but why not direct children like these two basic sports because it all comes from it. Furthermore, sports school clubs and clubs regardless of which branch of sport is the job of a professor, a teacher of physical health culture to recognize a child to implement the program and ultimately when a child heads to high school that people from high school sports clubs, and mostly from the club from the city and county recognize those children and continue to upgrade where the professors of physical and health culture noticed that they tested the abilities of the child and said in my school there are such and such boys, there are such and such girls, because I have tested them applied and these tests and I think they are advanced and that they can be expected from them in perspective. And of course I always end up on that sportsman's categorization, and I would especially rely on the categorization of young athletes. From this categorization of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the municipality follows that if it lives in a specific municipality, the city, the county and the City of Zagreb have certain financial obligations towards this gifted athlete, not just the Croatian Olympic Committee. And of course I expect from the council, I would say from this I would like to say to the expert sports council, where the distinguished experts we all know are sitting, such as Mrs Bilić, Anzulović, Poljak, Kožulj, the celebrated Ratko Rudić, Prof. Dr. Valentin Barisic from the Faculty of Kinesiology and Prof. Dr. Dragan Milanović of the Faculty of Kinesiology, Zoran Primorac, Zlatko Mateša, president of the HOO, Vrdoljak, Goluža, Kovačić, prominent sports workers such as Slavek Pogorec, we call him Slavek, and that they can respond to the request that Croatia in perspective, and I expect in 2013 have this far-deserved study of sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5847	Thank you too, colleague. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5848	The Honorable colleague has now listed the board members, I think it is not that important, the honor of all those on the board, but the issue of the overall problem of sport will not be solved only by the appointment of the National Council, by the appointment of the board or by not knowing what, but obviously through one overall strategy, but also especially through the law and on sports, but especially about the financing of sports can be solved by the basis which is exactly in schools, precisely local environments, from the smallest environments to Zagreb, from Paucje there near Djakov and to Maksimir or to Pomlje. And the whole sport can not only be financed and solved by municipal infrastructure can not only be transferred to local and regional self-government but it is the country that through its strategy, but also through the law that is necessary to pass, and thus prevent all these types of criminal activities in sport which were also involved here, the problem of sports and the functioning of sports can be solved in order to have more Petrovic and Ivanisevic and Kostelic and football and basketball and taewondo and karate, swimming and all other sports. But you can't break the world record if you don't have a closed pool, and that's what many local self-government units couldn't do because simply by these laws and by reducing income taxes they couldn't and couldn't finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5849	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Bora Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5850	Dear fellow Djurdjevic, I agree with a large part of your presentation, almost everything you've said. But when you said that, I also read here a statement by the president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, which then said and pointed out the lack of exact sports-related data from the number of clubs, the number of athletes, the way of funding, the number and the state of sports facilities and others. So that's a problem that's permanent and that exists, that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5851	Thank you very much. There's no answer, no replica, and there's no need. Finally, National Sports Council President Danir Bilic is respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5852	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. First of all, I thank all the MPs and MPs who participated in the debate on your proposals, suggestions, your criticisms. I listened very carefully, and I will try to respond briefly, to what I think would be important both for you and for the general public. Here's if you'll let me start with the distinguished representative Sanja Konig who said the dynamics of the National Sports Council are not in line with the current problems and you're right, it's not. But the dynamics of the National Sports Council are very much in line with the obligations arising from the Law on Sports, therefore with the obligations and competences of the National Sports Council. So not only you but also a few other MPs wondered why the National Council didn't do some things that aren't even in the National Sports Council's jurisdiction at all, so I'm using this opportunity again now. So the National Council wants and can only function in accordance with its powers prescribed by the Sport Act. And it is you who are here as Parliamentarians in the next amendments and additions to the Sport Act if, for example, you consider that the National Sports Council should develop a national sport development programme, then you can build it into the law. If it's not built into the law, then simply the National Sports Council can't do it. But we are aware of the problems and you have also seen through this study "Basic Principles and Guidelines for Sport Development" precisely pointed to many problems, suggested ways to solve and ultimately give one concept, a vision that should be done. But we are aware that we do not have that authority that we really do, we do not even have a legal personality, so we cannot even exercise and we are aware that how much will be realised from what the National Council proposes depends on the competent ministry, government and ultimately right here from your Croatian Parliament. And let me remind you, therefore, since most of the MPs who debated have expressed great hopes and desires what all of the National Council will do in this year and in the years to come then let me remind you that you are in this mandate, this assembly voted the National Sports Council 400 thousand kuna. So other than the sport funding study, there's really no room for stronger suggestion for other studies. We are to you for information, at our last session that was in January of this year, we sent a letter, a proposal, so when we were making amendments and supplementing our financial plan for this year in line with the budget, we sent a letter to the competent ministry in which we suggested that we go to certain studies that we consider to be priority and that would be a quality basis for the development of the national programme itself, but we also concluded that we encourage the competent ministry to launch the necessary activities as soon as possible to create the national programme itself. In the part where you mentioned that we may be misleading you MPs when you read the report because you see that somewhere it says that the ministry appoints and before that it says that the National Council appoints and proposes. Well, that's exactly, so it reflects the way the National Sports Council works. So, we propose to the ministry, and if the ministry adopts our proposal, then that's what the working bodies are named. So we can't even put ourselves in office if that ministry formally because we don't even have that legal personality in that part, the formal ministry doesn't. And so, it also relates to that part of the debate that was about to be just the key in the hands of the National Sports Council, is the key just to suggest. If you think we should do something more then you really have the opportunity to suggest the same in the amendments to the Sports Act. Allow further, the distinguished representative of Mrs. Gordana Sobol had a very nice discussion and related to women in sports. It's the same area I'm particularly interested in. And exactly what you saw, the data you pulled out is the data that we currently have or at least that we know we can get to them. But you can see how important it is to have certain quantified indicators in order to raise awareness of this problem in society. And that ultimately, when the cause is discovered, we see what are the best and the best quality measures to improve that state. First here you have just detected one of the problems that the National Council has detected, which is, that system of records, so this methodology of data collection, which, of course, also at the National Statistics Institute, needs to be changed. But not only with them but also within the ministry should we really do a little bit more work on this information system which one of the MPs will say very nicely it would be very valuable and well and that is the National Sports Council also said that it was really through school, because schools are the easiest, they reach all our children. So, to do some standardized measurements at certain ages, etc. And to collect one database that would be worth gold for all later and coaches and ultimately for the children themselves so that they would be directed into sports that they really belong to. Furthermore, there's one representative here now I don't remember exactly who, but he mentioned the problem really only one National Sports Union. I think it's a similar problem because it could be found in many other national sports alliances. But now I repeat that story, here about all those laws that regulate the problem, the field of sports related to the autonomy of sport that exists, but also about these democratic procedures of selecting members of the body in sports organisations, but also the law on associations that should be controlled whether the procedure is all expensive. And also whether it is a respectful statute etc. Here we return to the problem of lack of control of the implementation of already existing regulations and laws that would ultimately put into effect, so that control or compliance with existing laws and regulations would already be a huge and strong step forward in this section. Here's what I really think. Let me just have some more of my aunts in kindergarten. The aunts in kindergarten are mentioned. [[President intruding: Good.]] So, kindergarten aunts in that memo that we gave you for an insight, so the party we got also referred to as aunts in kindergarten have no right to work in kindergartens, or have no right to run sports groups. However, it exists in the educational system of the Republic of Croatia, so there is an orderly part of how aunts can be trained and get a certain qualification which is currently valid under Croatian laws. Therefore, aunts can, of course, if they have passed this particular, legally provided training. And finally let me do it one more time, so really thank you for the debate. I thank you for recognising not only the value of top athletes and top sports results in the promotion of the state, which is unequivocal but also for recognising sport as a powerful and stimulating educational and educational tool in society, which you have seen us put into practice a sport, that is, its educational and educational dimension as one of the basic principles, therefore, in our document the fundamental principles and guidelines of sport development. And indeed in this sense you saw that the National Sports Council really encourages that in this sense sport much, much more to be put into function not only at national but also at local levels. Once again, I thank you all for participating in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-16-0.u5853	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The report will also be made known today. And we move to a statement on the National Sports Council Report from 18 June 2010 to 31 December 2011. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report of the National Sports Council is hereby adopted between 18 June 2010 and 31 December 2011. Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, with 100 votes in favour, no one against and seven abstentions.
