ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24146	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Code of Criminal Procedure. Let us recall this amendment as a result of compliance with the new Penal Code, which enters into force on 1 January 2013, but also because of the partial implementation of the Constitutional Court decision of 19 July 2012, which, in the current Criminal Procedure Act, found a whole series of anti-constitutional provisions which resulted in the suspension of certain provisions in the same article. Such a decision of the Constitutional Court as well as the fact that this Law has already been amended twice suggests that the applicable 2008 Criminal Procedure Act has not fully complied with the principle of protecting the position of the defendant and the protection of his right, i.e. such a decision of the Constitutional Court is clear that the legislator did not take into account the constitutionality of the law and respect for the Constitution of guaranteed rights of citizens, so in many places the rights of defence, the prohibition of the use of illegal evidence, etc. The Constitutional Court's decision has led the Proposer and the Croatian Parliament to the uncomfortable position to intervene in the Criminal Procedure Act as soon as possible, and has brought before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Procedure Act, which, apart from the resolution of part of the non-constitutional provisions of the existing law, is in line with the reform of the Penal Code which enters into force on 1 January 2013. While, on the basis of the application of the law, some of its provisions are in practice, they are in progress. Although we are not happy that the law will have to be changed once again because it is necessary to remove the 26 further provisions that the Constitutional Court has established against the constitutionals, we are aware that such things are not a good thing to get in a hurry, because then we are in danger of having a situation where we are wrong again, where the Constitutional Court must intervene in the law. In short. This Law removes part of the violation of the Constitution to which the Constitutional Court pointed. For example, with regard to obtaining evidence by breach of human dignity, as regards the right to secrecy of talks and others. Furthermore, the law is linguistically and normably in line with the provisions of the Penal Code. As we can see from the final draft of the law, there are also small shortcomings observed between the first and second readings, and finally some of the provisions of the law that the practice has shown are inconclusive, as is the case with domestic detention or in the interest of some correction, as is the case with a shortened procedure. What we consider particularly important in the SDP are provisions concerning the protection of persons with mental disorders, which we particularly welcome. In short. First of all, we regret that the past government has not implemented the procedure of passing the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. We believe that such actions could be better prepared for the application of these laws by all professional and interested public. We are now in a position to pass this law in December, and it will have to be applied together with the Penal Code of 1 January next year. However, what is particularly problematic is the decision of the Constitutional Court, whose effects are partly removed by this draft law. It is clear that when we entered into the reform of criminal procedural legislation a few years ago in that reform, we did not fully observe that the provisions that are being incorporated into the law were constitutional. When he explained his report, the state lawyer said that the new Criminal Procedure Act had given him the instrument in his hands that would allow for considerable efficiency, that is, that is, the law on criminal proceedings that gave him the opportunity to prosecute criminals both in the area of corruption and elsewhere. However, we must be aware that we cannot fully undermine human rights by such a law. Human rights, defence rights must be the basis on which every law rests, especially the one dealing with criminal proceedings. We therefore support this law in the SDP, but we also ask that as soon as possible before the proposal is prepared to remove the remaining 26 anti-constitutions which were not covered by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24147	Thank you, Your Honor. It is now the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24148	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. There's always some danger in the judiciary, if they're not judges, then it's certainly the law. Many laws give the legitimacy of injustice and superficiality and legalize the right to greater justice. This Code of Criminal Procedure should establish a greater equality of parties in the procedure. In addition to this law, it has been said several times from this pay phone and at the round tables of legal experts, the State's Attorney's Office in 2008 received good tools. They were repaired in 2009 and 2011. This third revision was mainly initiated by the Constitutional Court decisions to partially or entirely abolish 43 provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act because they were, and some of them were, in fact, unconstitutional. One of the biggest objections of the Constitutional Court was that the new Criminal Procedure Act did not protect citizens' dignity. What's he not protecting himself with? Using illegal evidence or illegally collected evidence. The state's attorney's office at the start was a disabling advantage, an excuse made possible. The state's attorney's office at the beginning has been given the advantage. The right and justice imposes the equality of parties in the process, not as in the old CAP, bringing indictees into a subordinate position in relation to the state's attorney. Has the defendant been allowed access to the file since the start of the procedure for the State's Attorney's Office lost its edge? It is not, because it must not be looked at in advantage, but at the evidence collected in such a way as not to violate the relationship between the lawyer and his defender, or defendant. The state's attorney's office could be a recording of the defendant's and attorney's conversations. This provision deprives the Constitution of guaranteed rights of citizens who often conflict with the state-run repressive apparatus, meaning citizens, feel like David toward Goliath. These amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act strengthen the rights of citizens and strengthen the legislative authority, but also at the earlier stage of the indictment allow the President of the Judicial Council to investigate the justification of prosecution so that Goliath does not needlessly strangle David. The police won't be able to train strictness, they won't be able to bring in the defendant without a warrant. These amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedures, as I said, strengthen citizens' rights and strengthen the legislative authority. But also in the earlier phase of the indictment, it allows the President of the Judicial Council to be questioned. The police won't be able to train as strict as I said they will. The law states that a state attorney must provide the court with a list of all the evidence he has at his disposal. They must no longer be a secret or a surprise as they no longer may, without strong justification during the proceedings, refuse proof of defence. What Croatian laborers are constantly insisting on, and that is to take away illegally acquired assets, assets acquired by drug dealing, assets acquired by carrying out heavy seduction, heavy thefts, robbery of companies is prescribed by this law. So when we talked about taxation, we didn't advocate that tax collectors block or confiscate property, but to do so at their moment in criminal proceedings. Of course, don't take the moment literally. No one can keep property acquired by crime, and that property, of course, includes not only real estate, but whatever Mr. Smiley Sokol says, money, art paintings, gold, jewels, yachts and other high-priced pursuits. Unlawfully acquired assets under this Criminal Procedure Act shall be withdrawn whether or not the confiscation of the Prosecutor has been proposed. Legal assets must be deducted under the official duty laid down in Article 557. However, this amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure also requires a change in the law on the confiscation of property benefit by criminal act and violation. So, I hope the thieves who are convicted of stealing, fraud or illegal acquisition of company property won't enjoy the benefits of their misdemeanor after 2, 3 or 5 years in prison. And that was what we heard here from State Attorney Mladen Bajic at the time he filed a report in the Parliament of all previous years. Only in 17 cases, the property was seized. The question is, why is it that only 17 cases and more than 200 convicts today or tomorrow when released from prison will enjoy other people's money and other people's torture? Often and in the torment of workers who work for months and do not receive wages. These thieves often enjoy the torment and sweat of workers who are driven to the streets or to the labour market because of the deliberate destruction of companies. In view of the alarming situation in Croatian prisons that are overcrowded, and if we become a truly regulated rule of law, they will be even more crowded. It is also welcome to this law that provides for the Institute of Investigation in the House or how we know to call it more popularly home arrest. The application of this measure concerns a limited group of defendants, pregnant women, persons with physical disabilities, or persons with difficulty in movement, as well as persons aged 70 and over. For them, says the legislator, house arrest is justified. Why is the use of house arrest limited to these three mentioned groups of defendants? Because, for now, effective surveillance has been disabled, although he, along with many in the world, would be the cheapest technical aid. Many countries in Europe but also in the rest of the world have been using the Institute of Home Detention or Home Prison for years especially when it comes to defendants or criminals with easier criminal acts or misdemeanors. The Code of Criminal Procedure also provides for where the defendant will not be brought from custody to court. The court, with the consent of the defendant, can also draw up the hearing with the help of audio video links and thus can of course save which kuna. He pays particular attention to the defendants with mental impediments to the new Code of Criminal Procedure. A mandatory defense is prescribed for the defendants with mental disorders and whenever there is a reasonable doubt that a criminal or illegal act has been committed in an innumerable state. These amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act only treat 17 of the 43 articles declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional because the legislator did not deeply affect the legal text structure by these amendments. The remaining 26 articles of the law with a decision of the Constitutional Court will be brought into line by 15 December 2013 as more thorough coordination of criminal proceedings and order is necessary. I hope that the coordination will take place before the deadline and that in 2013, the Ministry of Justice will meet all the preconditions for reforming the judiciary that is necessary to make this rule of law a state-of-the-art state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24149	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative, Nikola Vuljanić, has been reported at your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24150	Thank you, Mr. President. You spoke to your colleague about situations where the criminal law, or the Criminal Procedure Act, confiscates the property illegally acquired. It is something that we have been talking about for quite some time, and it comes out in public with views, but it is a small part of the illegal property that is emerging in this country. According to the provisions of the Penal Code or the Code of Criminal Procedure, in order to obtain illegally acquired property, you must first establish a court ruling that a criminal offence occurred and state in that judgment which property is taken away because it was acquired by that criminal act. What we talked about when we talked about tax laws is property for which there is no origin. And for which the person who has it cannot prove by the IRS that there is a discrepancy between the property and the tax paid, then that person must prove from where that property came from. The burden of proof is on her, not on the law. Under this law and for persons concerned by this law, the burden of proof is, of course, in court or at the State's Attorney's Office. Tax law should function differently, establish a discrepancy and transfer the burden of proof to the one who has the strangely acquired assets. So it's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24151	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vukisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24152	Yeah. Dear colleague Vuljanic, I agree with you. The burden of proof now in court should be on whoever illegally acquired the property. So it's completely wrong that the court has to determine where the property came from to that man who can't prove it, say, there are people who don't have a day of work that don't work anywhere, who didn't inherit anything, didn't get it, didn't send an aunt from America, and we know very well how much property they have, they have fairies, they drive expensive cars, they drive on their yachts and the state grumbles at it. It is the state that must prove that it has illegally acquired that property. Property that has no origin, that property should be blocked at the same time and if it is not proven by the man who acquired the property in a suspicious way that property should be taken away.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24153	Thank you very much. We're going further into the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is now the HDZ's Club of Representatives and the respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24154	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. We have before us an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is one of the most important laws in every legal system of each country, and I am therefore glad that the proposing representative has come to the assembly and that we now have in fact who to communicate with in relation to our views on this law. Too bad we didn't hear the opening argument. You can tell us that we're written enough to read it from written materials, but it's common and I don't remember it happening mainly in such important laws that we started a debate without the proposer's opening explanation. It also speaks of the respect of this House of High, and of that, Mr. President, that we might have waited for the Proposer to enter the assembly of those few minutes. But how important the law is, the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act also says that after 130 years of application of certain legal rules and certain methods and concepts of criminal proceedings, Croatia adopted one whole other concept and another principle. Therefore, after the existence of a mixed type of criminal proceedings in 2008, we are introducing a principle that strictly separates the investigation from the criminal proceedings and the investigation is positioned in the previous proceedings and transferred to a state attorney in full that unites persecution and investigation, of course with judicial oversight in those issues in which he touches fundamental human rights. How complex it is to remind that, back in 2002, a working group with the task and aim was to adopt principles and guidelines for amending the Criminal Procedure Act and these principles were adopted in 2007 and on the basis of them, so this was the basis and basis on which a brand new Criminal Procedure Act was drawn up. These principles set out what is considered most important in criminal proceedings, which is to strike a balance. On the one hand, to protect the human right of every citizen, including one who is accused or accused, but to ensure on the other hand a reliable determination of truth in a quick, simple, economic process that will protect society from criminal offences, criminal offences, perpetrators of criminal acts, and that this law must ensure the equality of arms in the process because both principles, therefore, and the protection of human rights of every citizen, and the protection of society against criminal conduct are equally important. So in this sense, it went into root reform, the law was passed, the law is extensive and has 574 articles. Today we have a third amendment and we do not need to be surprised, these amendments will also be announced because of the Constitutional Court's decision, but also because the application is under way, and to remind us that this law is in part in application from 1 July 2009 and in full application from 1 September 2011 and will certainly show what should be done during the application of this law that brings forth a series of newspapers. There were a lot of speeches on the Constitutional Court's decision, there were many questions whether it would affect the proceedings pending or already passed judgments in which proceedings this law was applied, so the Constitutional Court also made its decision and told it. The non-compliance established with the Constitution is not such as to remove these provisions immediately but has been left to the legislator by December 2013 in which it has to comply with the provisions of this law with the Constitutional Court's decision. And I must say that we do not have to say that this law is so fundamentally and thoroughly unconstitutional, namely, since 574 articles, the constitutionality seems to me to be compared to 150 articles, and a proposal for an examination of 40 articles has been accepted. So these changes that are before us today except that they bring the Criminal Procedure Act into line with the Penal Code at the end of 2011, so the catalogue of criminal offences is aligned. They also accept some, the Constitutional Court's decision regarding some articles of the now applicable Criminal Procedure Act. Of course there is a certain objection and a colleague named Grbin objected to the previous government. However, this change will be on time. But maybe a year was enough time, so the Penal Code came into force at the end of 2011. During this year perhaps we could have had before in a parliamentary debate and amendments and additions to this Law that conforms to this Penal Code. What is good, so other than these technical changes, it is good that these amendments and additions of the Law are determined by an actual jurisdiction, to determine in which cases will be handled by a judge of the individual of the Municipal Court not to engage in any minor criminal offences which are not particularly dangerous because of the obstacles to the ceiling of the sentence, to engage the Judicial Council. Therefore, it is now specified when an individual judge will act and specifically stated in relation to which, therefore, a special catalogue of criminal offences when it comes to more complicated species, particularly in the sphere of economic crime or certain fund fraud or in relation to criminal offences in relation to children, etc., when this must be done and given the prevented punishment solved by the Judicial Council. It is good that the scope of the previous investigation has been extended by the judge of the investigation, as this results in economic performance. And it is certainly good that the law introduces a provision under which the confiscation of property benefits is no longer dependent on the State's Attorney's proposal but decides the court of ex sopho, so it always takes a position and must make a decision on the confiscation of property benefit, which fully implements the principle that no one can retain illegally acquired property by criminal activity. What we repeat and we will speak and we will repeat until it enters into the text of a law, which is that there are other benefits other than property benefits that can be obtained by a criminal act, which are not answered anywhere. And in practice daily we can see completed procedures with powerful verdicts, with served penalties, and that the benefit that is not property, which can be any equal, status, testimony falsified, etc. remains because there is no telling who, when and in what procedure should be initiated, the annulment of those rights which have been obtained by criminal acts and should certainly be taken into account and I suggest that, systematically, the Ministry of Justice think about it. Why is it good? It has already been said here that we see from the State's Attorney's Office's report, especially in relation to legal persons' responsibilities, that the disproportionately large number of judgments and confiscation of property benefit are. Therefore, in the light of the draft law and this Final Bill proposal, it is good that, in the framework of the provisions on agreement, amendments to this law are also laid down that in the previous procedure, in a shortened procedure to allow for agreement. What is good is that this Final Proposal has made it clear that there is no agreement with regard to security measures. Therefore, security measures are always linked in a way to the danger of the perpetrator and cannot be agreed on by security measures. It's a good thing that's clearly said. I also wouldn't say that it's a newspaper, so as far as what we call home arrest is concerned, it's actually called an investigative prison at home. The provisions existed before and after the old CAP, however, were not implemented. They weren't being implemented for the reason they weren't, they weren't bringing in sublegal acts. Thus, although the law provided for it, it was only in 2007 that a sublegal act could be adopted to enable it. However, given the need for certain technical tools and the need for resources and organisations, supervision, here it did not revive. It's good that in these changes it's more sophisticated, so it's determined and limited in some way I'd say instructive cases when you can determine house arrest when it's determined. But why instructive? Because there is also a provision that in other cases when the court considers that it is meaningful and necessary. So the rest of the house arrest certainly fulfills the purpose, which is to ensure the presence or disabling of the escape, and on the other hand, it may cost the state less in the end than to have the person in custody, i.e. the prison investigation. But it will ensure the protection of some human rights, for example, when it comes to severely ill people, people with disabilities, or about, the law mentions pregnant women. In our first reading discussion, we pointed out that it might be good to include both mothers or single fathers and single mothers with children for up to six months of life or up to a year depending on the possibilities to ensure that they can be, so as to ensure their presence and prevent the escape, and that they can again be with their child. The Proposer did not accept this by stating that it falls under that general provision that the court may, even outside the cases referred to in the law, determine this when it considers it to be meaningful or necessary. Here we accept this argument, as we also accept the proposal that this circle of persons cannot be extended for the reason why it requires certain financial resources, i.e. the engagement of the Ministry of the Interior, as provided for by this law and by the law on probation. We saw a disagreement in the government the other day, so the Minister of the Interior who refused to vote for the law because he felt that the budget in his position was not enough for him to implement the law. I hope that the promoter has sources of funding for law enforcement because it would not be good if we again passed the law in 2012 today, in particular these provisions on house arrest, which we will not be able to implement again over the years because there will not be enough funds and administrative capacity to monitor the implementation of this law. For these reasons, the HDZ club will support these changes and additions, believing that this is a further step towards a better and more effective criminal procedure and the protection of fundamental human rights. And of course we expect further changes that this law would fully comply with the Constitutional Court Decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24155	Thank you, too, Your Honor. And the explanation, the beginning of the debate on the final draft law, is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the provision of Article 108(3). Secondly, the democratic standard in the Croatian Parliament for 10 and more years has been that both sets of laws and sets of laws have been decided and decided without a proposing representative present. Third, I informed the Parliament that a representative of the government would be in the assembly during the debate, and that happened. Fourthly, in the bill of law, the reasoning of the law itself is written, and therefore I think that the procedure is fully democratic and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. It is now up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24156	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, it hasn't been that long. We discussed this two to three weeks ago, the bill was then proposed, and the government's representative was then, the deputy minister's representative, and it is clear by reason that much has changed besides those petty remarks in the debate. So we can discuss this final bill now on the criminal procedure ahead of us. The final proposal of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as we can see, can be divided into one of three groups of proposals and solutions which, unlike the previous ones, were here in the previous debate, but also in the debate before us today. Therefore, first and foremost, the harmonisation of the Criminal Procedure Act with a new Penal Code which will enter into force on 1 January 2013 in order to make this and the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure effective, first and foremost, for the sake of quality, justice and law-based procedure of the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the balance of parties should be done and both the investigative actions and the defendant, as well as the State's Attorney's Office, so that there is no violation of the rights of parties in the proceedings. I am sure that the legislator in the previous solution, i.e. those articles that the Constitutional Court has abolished that are considered not in accordance with the Constitution and with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, I am sure that the intention was a expert group, and also the legislator, that these instruments which are in the hands of the State's attorney and the hands of the judges of the investigation, instruments that will best and most effectively solve the problem, i.e. to resolve the procedure in a way to reach a solution and to punish those perpetrators who have indeed committed and punish all those who have violated the laws in the Republic of Croatia in this sense to be punished in the way that it is appropriate to the law. And in good faith, there is always what I say is a violation of human rights, so that the balance of parties and that human rights in every procedure should be at the highest level, as well as in this criminal procedure. So that these decisions of the Constitutional Court, as well as the intentions of the legislator in the previous procedure, should not be taken wrongly but should be understood to correct those mistakes so that no one in the proceedings in which the court is brought into an unequal position. We at the HDSSB Club so consider these decisions of the Constitutional Court and so consider these changes. Changes that will primarily make the procedure more effective, which will balance the parties in the process. Infringement of human rights, fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution must certainly be protected and these decisions of the Constitutional Court, this partial harmonisation of the law with the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be implemented as soon as possible. It is good, therefore, to address this issue of fundamental human rights, the issue of giving guarantees, the question of giving evidence that the state's attorney should at the very beginning of the proceedings give all the evidence at his disposal that the parties to the procedure would be equal and that this procedure would be on both sides, both for the prosecutor and for the defendants at the highest legislative level. Also this final bill of law, which is before us, brings some newspaper, less newspaper, but they are good above all because of the modern and way of life in which we live, but they are all essentially... and any more qualified criminal offences that can sometimes not be predicted by the Penal Code itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is good for county courts to relieve these proceedings, for example, of abuse in the use of intoxicating drugs to place these crimes in the jurisdiction of municipal courts. We see by reason of the law that more than 50% of the cases have been in the jurisdiction of the county courts so far. County courts are now receiving new qualified forms of criminal offences in their jurisdiction, such as the offence of abuse in economic business, of subsidisation. These are the consequences that have resulted in themselves because both the County Court and the State's Attorney's Office in these cases are complex crimes, they should be more prepared and concentrated on these more severe forms of criminal offences, and that these easier forms of criminal offences may be left to municipal courts. Have we seen and alone been a member of the State Judiciary Council that some courts are really minimally burdened, some over-the-counter cases in courts while county courts suffer unnecessary criminal acts that delay time and create a large number of unsolved cases in these courts. These solutions concerning the harmonisation of certain concepts in the catalogue of criminal offences under the 1997 and 2011 Penal Code are necessary to create two catalogues of criminal offences, since the proceedings pending will be subject to that Penal Code which, for the conviction of the perpetrator, is milder, although it is always worth applying a minor sentence for the perpetrator when the offence is committed at the time of the criminal offence, regardless of when the criminal proceedings or proceedings are closed. It makes sense that there are two criminal catalogues. These termological alignments to define differently the concept of a child, to define differently the concept of a criminal organization or criminal association. So far, those changes that occurred between '97 and 2011 or 2012 are those minor technical changes that are necessary for the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings. With regard to the detention of the Institute of Criminal Prison in the home, it may be necessary to consider whether what is provided for by the Penal Code for persons to whom it applies is sufficient or perhaps necessary to extend it in order for a greater number of accused persons to be found under the scope of this institute. It is well defined by law but perhaps the group to which it applies is narrowed, so it would not be bad to think about extending the persons who would come under the provisions of this provision of the law. It is also good to introduce a mandatory investigation into persons with mental disorders at all stages of the procedure. These are specific cases, cases that really need to be looked after for human rights violations, and it is good that this is the solution in this final proposal of the Criminal Procedure Act. The execution of an investigatory prison in the home will show how much this measure has been taken since it has been present in a certain form so far. It is now the police's jurisdiction to see the correctness of the measures. We'll see how effective that is. There should really be considered whether, as I said, this solution needs to be extended a little bit. The Parties shall also agree in the procedure, the signing of a party’s declaration in the procedure that it is in agreement with the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. We find that logical. We find it logical that the court decides not to make such a decision on the prosecution's proposal. Then it turns out that if the prosecutor hadn't made a proposal to confiscate the property benefit obtained by a criminal act, such an asset benefit would not have been taken away. These are all those solutions which are therefore technical nature that came during our discussions here in the Croatian Parliament. We are sure that given that it is a specific procedure, it will be a whole series of instruments that are related to both the Criminal Law and the procedure and the conduct of the state's attorney and the conduct of the parties in the proceedings. And given that it is a large number and a large law of 574 articles, I am sure that even a year may not immediately apply the new Penal Code since 1 January 2013, but during 2013 it is certain that, due to the obligation to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, and I am sure that, by applying the law itself, there will be even better solutions to ensure that this criminal procedure is indeed effective, so that all parties in the process find themselves equal, and the aim is for the legislator and ourselves to pass laws that will be functional and laws that will primarily protect the interests of the Republic and all citizens in the process. For no man can be found guilty until he is proved guilty by a judgment of law. The HDSB Club supports this final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act and we will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24157	Thank you, too. Now we're moving on to a ten-minute debate of an individual representative. The first is Honored Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't even use my 10 minutes because I'm not a lawyer, and then about this matter that really requires a good knowledge of the law, I can't go into the measure of what's been passed. But given some provisions in this final bill, I can comment as well as my fellow journalist Vuksic. In fact, here I see almost some articles in which it is mentioned in the previous law of minors that it is now termologically correcting and writing a child. So instead of underage children, then by the age of 18. It is similar with us in health care in medicine where children's suits are those departments that deal with children until the age of 18. I'd almost say some sort of adjustment of medicine and rights. But what someone here has already mentioned, and I mean Mrs. Lovrin, which is sanctions prescribed for those who have committed criminal acts in the sense of counterfeiting a document, which has caused some damage not only property but some other. We have examples in the Republic of Croatia where arrested and convicted persons who issued false testimony. I'm also talking about some medical testimonies that have been granted the right to disabled driver's licenses, hunting licenses, etc. to some others. Although these persons are today on the subject of punishment, I wonder if there has been any consequences for those who have obtained such testimony and there are many, it is almost said that there is one massive phenomenon, whether there has been legal consequences or criminal justice against those who have now served the prison sentence because of counterfeiting or false writing of such testimony have achieved material benefit. I remember what counterpart Vuksic said in the investigation procedure and how the investigation was conducted and now the late Dr Simic of Rijeka, later from Sarajevo who served the sentence in BiH, who was immediately informed by the indications that the handcuffed bribes had been placed and the TV teams who apparently came to us as the girls of the information were informed, as well as those professors from the Faculty of Economics and Legal in the early hours of the ambush were arrested and handcuffed to them. Did colleagues of Simic, an excellent cardiologist, need such a measure when they are arrested to put handcuffs on immediately, and it is known to whom handcuffs are placed, those suspected of being able to escape, so that they can apply force against police, etc. They were really ugly pictures, and I was sorry, honestly, as Simic's colleagues, for going through it like that. I don't justify that someone wouldn't misread me, I don't justify his actions or his misdemeanors, but it really was such a drastic, drastic picture on all the electronic media in the Republic of Croatia. We watch these days of demonstration in the Republic of Slovenia, primarily in Maribor, Maribor and then Ljubljana and other cities of the Republic of Slovenia. On one side of the poster, we watched those posters, statements made by protesters, says crime and corruption of the engine of capitalism. Exactly. The camera flew very fast over that written not document. But here when talking about the Penal Code then it is clear that the Republic of Croatia to say alike could be compared with Slovenia and then there is a lot of crime and corruption as criminal acts. For this reason, it is good to refer here in Article 3 of page 2 to the abuse of trust in economic activity as a criminal offence or as a subsidy fraud, abuse of position and authority. And clearly, I hope that due to these crimes, the future result of the confiscation of property due to such crimes will not be defeated as the statistics issued by the state's attorney Bajic here say, that in only 17 cases the property that was illegally acquired has been seized, and in 200 cases which have already been ruled by the executive has not been taken away from the property. It's a truly devastating piece of information for our judiciary. Clearly, the HDSSB Club will accept this proposal of the Penal Code both in the hope and in the faith that these things that I was talking about in the future will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24159	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got two lines reported. The first is the replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grubisic rightly points out something that may not have been particularly pointed out in this debate so far, which is a change in terminology, and I think it's important for minors, so a person up to 18 and turns into a child. I just want to remind you once again that it is absolutely in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child whose signature is the Republic of Croatia. So it is clearly indicated in this Convention that every person by the age of 18 is a child and I appeal that in all our laws this terminology is in accordance with the Convention and replace it. And this is the beginning, I think it's very important and it's very good and it's just not some technical change, it's a structural change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24161	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24162	Thank you, Mrs. Kosor, for supporting my debate. Clearly, we could have arranged it in the previous proposals of this law, so that the termology used so far by an older minor, a younger minor, 14 years, 16 years of age, more or less, may have been a mess, I am clearly not saying that with legal professionals, but with citizenship, it was really a mess. Now it's arranged like this and it's a good thing it's arranged so thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24163	Next replica and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24164	Thank you very much. Well, here are two things, and speaking of terminology, of course, it's good and desirable to always align the terminology mainly with the international conventions that we have signed. Why not earlier, so it may have been in some part earlier but it had to be harmonised with that terminology, other provisions, such as the Penal Code, should be regulated in view of the provisions on child's irresponsibility as it was once smuggled for a criminal offence, when the child was defined by a person up to 14 years of age. So now they've won, I'd say the terms of the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are in line with that terminology. But what I wanted to rephrase to you, so to confirm, that is, to express another concern because we don't really have an orderly way of taking away the benefit obtained by a crime when it's not exclusively property benefit. Namely, you mentioned an action at the Faculty of Economics. It was a famous and famous action called Index. Powerful convicted persons, acquired property benefits were probably obtained by those who were getting something. However, on the basis of the offences entered in the Index at least, it was said that the university or colleges did not have in their rules the legal basis for repealing, which means that something acquired by criminal acts had happened. I had a case that the ministry had a person who was accidentally found out that she was convicted of falsifying the testimony, and that person contributed to a work book in which she was neatly enrolled, that she had a ready-made number on the basis of that testimony and the one that was falsified. So, we need to find a sequence of whether it's a lawyer's office, a state's attorney's office, or who's the one who's going to be in other administrative proceedings or who's going to initiate procedures to undo it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24165	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24166	My colleague Lovrin, so I wasn't just talking about, say, Operation Index, so I'm also talking about the exams that were paid to pass. I also talked about the testimony of the doctors that some people had achieved from some disability to civil, peacetime and to war. We now know and you know that either it is in the process or some of them have already been convicted of it can also be taken away from them the property benefits they have acquired. But what about those who, therefore, did or used the services of those doctors or others in the chain that existed, who exposed the DORH and who were convicted. Do they continue to use what they have done in society through these testimonies as you yourself have said or in this country. And you see, in article 399, which may not be entirely adequate to what we're talking about. If there are reasonable doubts that the witness or expert has given a false statement in the hearing, the court may and may not, therefore, order that the witness’s statement, or the witch’s statement, be drawn up a special record to be delivered to the State’s attorney. So it's not the same as the end of this, but we would really have to do our best here in the House to discuss this subject that you and I are on here today in the replica to finally clear it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24167	Thank you, too. And now the closing word of honor is Sandra Artuković Kunst, deputy minister of justice. Here's your esteemed deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is the final thanks for the debate that supported this proposal. We are free to conclude that this two-minute delay did not, therefore, cause major problems especially because of the written reasoning, but even more because of the distinguished representative, Peja Grbin, who, in his opening part, made precise and clear the most important conclusions that led us to draw up this legislative proposal. What we can conclude is that criminal procedural legislation is a major challenge precisely because of the need to establish this most difficult balance between the protection of fundamental human rights and the need for effective criminal-legislative processing and this balance is, how difficult it is to establish this balance we have seen from the results of the recent constitutional and legal practice that has touched this law in the part in which we have made the harmonisations that we could make and are not simple. The remaining provisions will be aligned with the constitutional decision as soon as possible. We've also formed a task force that works on further harmonisation. This is not just about a certain number of remaining provisions to be harmonised. They reflect on the institutions themselves procedurally-legal in the criminal section and through other provisions, so that this harmonisation requires a certain time, and we would not want to make further mistakes because of the haste. So, we will certainly respect that deadline that was left to us by December 15, 2013. We'll try and be faster. But I'm saying, between the desire for speed, I think legal certainty is something that should guide us a lot more. Here we have touched the question of confiscation of illegally acquired property benefits. I think we consider this provision by which the confiscation is decided by ex-sofo, not on the prosecution's proposal, significant because that's what society is actually trying to do, so that retaining the unlawfully acquired property benefits cannot be considered permitted in any way. The question of a prison in a home has been clarified. Those doubts or perhaps misunderstandings that were highlighted during the adoption of this law and in the area of government were made clear. The question whether and with regard to which persons such an institute will be applied is a question which, as well as other procedural legal institutes, we are actually leaving to the Court of Justice because there is a court and a case in which, under the circumstances of a particular case, a decision which is appropriate. The persons who are for an investigative prison in a home apostrophe in the legal provision that is here are the persons we wanted to put an accent on to take care of, but of course it is the court who will also assess beyond that strict framework whether it is necessary. Defining the child's concept is the result of conventional compliance as we have said. The moment for such harmonisation has now come with the need to also bear in mind that a child in the area of criminal proceedings is not only a victim but also a perpetrator of a criminal offence. Here, this was briefly about the last thing we had in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24169	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion under this final bill of law. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 178. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that it is unanimous with 116 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24172	Thank you very much. Here's the final proposal of the Probation Act before you. We try to regulate the probation system, and probation represents an extra-institutional framework, i.e. the treatment of the perpetrator of criminal offences, which is estimated not to need to separate them from the social environment. By setting certain conditions and by providing assistance through treatment, the purpose of criminal and legal sanctions is realised and through non-institutional treatment. The law on probation, the first one we had, was passed in 2009 and on that basis we began to develop a probation service. In 2011, we opened trial offices, and the new law was made for the problems and needs of practice on the one hand and additional tasks and challenges put before the probation service in view of the '08 Criminal Procedure Act. and the new 2011 Penal Code, which enters into force on 1 January 2013. The legal framework for the work of probationary systems is adapted, existing tools and instruments have been strengthened to respond to increased modified requirements especially in relation to protective supervision, in relation to specific obligations in relation to work for the general good conditional release of the prison sentence. And the law was made up so that in the first part of the law contained those general provisions, provisions on purpose, content, manner and bodies responsible for the execution of probationary tasks. It contains fundamental principles and rights and obligations of persons involved in the trial. In the second part of the law, we have prescribed, above all, what documents on persons involved in the probationary system should be made and conducted by the probationary offices, and individual institutions of the exercise of protected supervision, work for the general good and special obligations have been processed in separate heads. The Prosecution Service shall carry out the tasks of conditional convictions with protective supervision and work for the general good at large. This law increases jobs by ensuring that the safeguards provided for by the Penal Code are not only carried out with a conditional sentence but with work for the common good and with a conditional discharge from the maintenance of the sentence or after the full maintenance of the prison sentence. Due to that particular head, it is arranged to conduct a probationary service in the conduct of that supervision, i.e. to refer and carry out protective surveillance and the obligations of the probationary office during its execution are particularly arranged. Work for the general good as a field of work is also extended by criminal law. Therefore, there is an extended opportunity to express work for the general good by making it mandatory for the prison to be replaced for up to 6 months by work for the general good, and the court has been left to decide whether the sentence of imprisonment from 6 months to a year will be replaced by work for the general good depending on the circumstances of the case. By law of the Court of Justice, the decision on parole is in the jurisdiction of the court. This also reflects the exercise of supervision of paroled persons in part of the preparation of parole and with regard to the decision on parole of prisoners. The criminal law extends the list of specific obligations which the court may impose on the perpetrator of a criminal offence as well as the possibility of their application. The special obligations of the court may be imposed with a conditional sentence with the work for the general good and with a conditional discharge for the maintenance of the sentence of the prison, irrespective of whether or not protective supervision has been imposed. The list of trial jobs left out of participation in the organisation of assistance and support for victims and damages, but not because victims, injured persons or families of victims or families of the perpetrators would no longer be helped but because these jobs are essentially jobs that are not part of the probationary service and are entrusted to the special offices that are set up for this. What we can highlight here as the difference between the first reading and the second reading is the fact that we added to the law the obligation to report to the Croatian Assembly on the work of probation services. Compared to the professional training of probation officials, we have changed so much that probation officials can be persons who are also educated in the field of legal science. The current Prosecution Act reserves a provision on the official identification of probationary officers so that they can prove their status under which the powers to carry out probationary tasks arise. The voluntary provision has been reformed in such a way that, to date, it meets most of the provisions of Article 16 of the relevant law on probation by supplementing it in certain cases, for example in the case of parole, with the maintenance of a prison sentence for the conduct of protective supervision or once a special obligation to consent convicts is no longer a condition for the implementation of probation measures. The provision relating to the change of residence or residence included in the sampling has been amended in such a way as not to require the consent of the testing office for such a change in order to operationalise the procedure. And an amended provision relating to the making of a report to the court in the event of a decision to postpone the execution of the sentence. In particular, a report shall be submitted to the executing judge only in respect of the decision to suspend the detention of the prison and the probation, and not more so in the decision-making process on the postponement of the prison sentence. Since the probation service does not have data that are important for the decision to postpone the prison sentence. Such data shall be available to social care centres, and the same shall be required under the provisions of the criminal proceedings law to provide data at the request of the court. Through the entire text of the law, we have carried out harmonisation between the two readings in relation to the concept or the expression of the central authority of the state administration and maternity leave, and we have determined that the law fully enters into force on 1 January 2013 in order to bring this law into line with what we are talking about, therefore, the set of these laws that we are talking about with the Penal Code which enters into force on 1 January 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24173	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament committee want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the SDP of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Draženko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24174	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected deputies with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As already mentioned in the proposal for a Law on the Prosecution of the adoption of this Act, it is necessary to comply with the new Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act. This problem is essentially related to the matter that regulates the Law on the legal consequences of condemning criminal records and rehabilitation as much as the idea of resociation and rehabilitation as an idea which should be the primary objective of the criminal and penalty system is being implemented in this law. The historical development of the testing institute is followed mainly through the Anglo-Saxon legal practice that has shown some positive effects since the very beginning. It was therefore followed by its further adoption through a special law in 1878. Due to the positive experience of testing and on the continent, the classical French-Belgian type of parole is becoming increasingly accepted during the adoption of a mixed system that includes both surveillance and assistance and protection of convicted persons. The purpose of the punishment must be clearly to resociate and return the perpetrator to society. It is clear that this objective can be achieved much more effectively if, with a conditional conviction with work for the general good, conditional discharge and as provided for by the law after the re-execution of the sentence, active control measures are carried out and assistance to the convict. I would especially point out that element of help. The idea of resociation is essentially feasible with the perpetrators of criminal offences that meet, I would say, three conditions. The first was that the delinquents had circumstances that he... so the perpetrator of the crime due to the acquisition of life circumstances, his weaknesses or mischoices. Another is that the perpetrators understand the error of their conduct and that they are essentially guilty of regretting this crime. And the third is that they have essentially perhaps the most important, that they have a genuine desire to participate actively in this process of resociation. The role of society is to help them as much as possible in this process. How each such man is every such perpetrator tells himself there is an individual approach of utmost importance. Some research that followed the work of the probation service claimed that the success of preventing relapses was significantly greater when probation services consistently carried out measures provided for by probationary supervision. It should be reiterated that the success of the trial system is guaranteed only by systematic and deep surveillance of the probationary officers. If this is not the case, if this surveillance is only superficial virtual results largely lagging behind. In the application of sampling, it is of paramount importance that delinquents be fully aware that they are under constant supervision and that the breach of the obligations imposed on them may result in a suspension of reduced measures and a reference to the maintenance of the prison sentence. However, however, international experience in the application of the sampling system contributes to the increasing application of alternative penalty measures. Prosecution of prison sentences has often proved to be an inefficient measure when we talk about the impact on the rate of relapse and the reintegration of delinquents into society. Also, some relevant studies show that as many as 87% of convicted persons successfully completed the trial period, and some 15% of the trials were reported in some cases. In contrast, convicts who have spent the entire prison sentence show a significantly higher rate of relapse than as much as 72% of certain studies show that the U.S. probation system between 1993 and 1996 significantly contributed to a reduction in the rate of violent crimes during that period of as much as 26%. These data, which I have stated, are in favour of replacing as many prison sentences as possible with alternative criminal measures, primarily by carrying out the work for the common good, by means of measures that include the correction of the damage done by criminal offence, by measures that would lead to a delinquent understanding of the social harmfulness and inadmissibility of its behaviour, or by measures that would prevent it from ever being able to commit a crime again. For example. that it does not come back to sports sites or measures that would prevent it from consummating drugs and alcohol if, therefore, it has contributed to committing a crime. It often closes especially when they are overcrowded, when they cannot fulfill their function in normal conditions, they function as a kind of gladiatorial academy in which delinquents who have the potential for resociation do not realize that potential but a ton deeper and very soon after getting out of prison make new crimes. Unfortunately, the fact is that prisons in Croatia are overworked and that the number of prisoners in prison exceeds their current capacity. In the whole story, of course, it is not negligible, nor is the price that the company must pay to maintain a prison system which, according to data, is not as efficient as the application of some other measures. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to find any economic analyses that would compare economic profitability when we're only talking about this segment, a probationary system compared to classical prison but common sense logic, I believe it speaks in favour of making it far more cost-effective in a system that is out of those classical penitentiary systems. For this reason, we believe that the means to implement this law are, in the first place, justified and necessary for the establishment of the service and education of the employees as stated in the opening part of the proposal for this law. All of this is in favour of the fact that prison sentences should be based on an individual assessment, I stress the importance of individual evaluation, increasingly replace with alternative methods of punishment that must be directed at the front row towards resociation. However, prison sentences should only be applied to those perpetrators who do not show this potential for resociation, of which society can be effectively protected only by their remote and effective threat to a new prison sentence if they commit a criminal offence again. And in these cases, it is again important to set up an effective surveillance system that is supposed to be aware that they are under constant attention and that their involvement in the launch of a new delinquent will not go away without a new sentence. Since the first reading of the text of the law is not except for the correction of certain non-essential errors, and for that there was no need. We welcome the changes that have been accepted, in particular the involvement of legal professionals in this system in the words, and we of the SDP Club also consider that this law, as proposed, creates better conditions for the purpose of the law to be fulfilled than was the previous legal solution. We find that the solutions provided for in this law to organise work for the general good, as well as to organise and monitor the resolution of specific commitments from the KP and commitments from the CAP will now be implemented better and more effectively. We particularly welcome the fact that it provides for the possibility of concluding cooperation agreements with citizens' associations and other legal persons registered to carry out humanitarian and other similar jobs, which has not been the case so far. I think that including external factors in the sampling system is a positive step which in... international practice gives positive results and we consider it a step in the right direction, even more encouraging further steps. In line with the above, the SDP club supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24175	Thank you very much. First one notice. The Honorable Gordana Sobol, president of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, called the 15th session of the commission for today on December 5th, Wednesday, 2012 at 13 am in Stjepan Radic's Hall number 133. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is now the turn of the HNS club and the esteemed representative Marijan Skvaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24176	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the respected Deputy Minister, the honourable MPs and the MPs of the Parliament. The HNS Club... Democrats support the Final Proposal Act, which we can point out that after first reading all the good proposals that are defined with the desire to be enforceable, be fair, be human, that it is incorporated into the Final Proposal Law. So when we define the assessment of the state of the law, first of all, the enforcement of criminal sanctions in the Republic of Croatia is prescribed by the Law on the execution of the sentence of the Penal Code. The two laws were the basis for the start of a trial service whose basics lie in the 1997 KZ. After that, and before the start of the systematic construction of the probationary service, the sanctions imposed by the courts in exchange for a prison sentence, such as a conditional conviction with protective supervision, including a series of obligations imposed on the convicted person and the work for the general good at freedom under the control of the commissioners. Later, the Prosecution Act replaces the Commissioners with probationary officials who are defined and placed in the field testing offices, and they are incorporated into the system in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. In all this context, it is necessary to adapt the legal framework for the work of the probationary system and to define and adapt this legal framework in a clear way. First of all, it is a newspaper in three laws, a new KZ, a new CAP and also a Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters on the contained pages of the European Union, and it is important that this law enters into force on the day of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in Chapter VIII. containing an instrument of judicial cooperation between the Member States of the Union on the recognition and enforcement of judgments and decisions imposed in the EU Member States on trial measures and affirmative sanctions. So basically when we define this final proposal for a law on probation, we can also say what the definition of probation is. This is an extra-institutional treatment of the perpetrator of a criminal offence for which the court has assessed that it is not necessary to separate him from the wider and narrow social environment, but by setting certain conditions for the freedom of the perpetrator, and by helping to overcome certain life difficulties, i.e. the risk may result in the purpose of criminal sanctions. When we define that part, I would like to particularly highlight the four basics of this law on probation that are well done and that will make a very important contribution to that basic thing that we have said to the purpose of criminal justice sanctions. First of all, these are trial jobs that are in front of criminal proceedings and during criminal proceedings. They would basically mention that in that part of the probationary service, by providing verified information on accommodation, employment, socio-family status, health status, drug or alcohol abuse, and by other assessment of the risk of perpetrators will significantly assist both the court and the state attorney when deciding on the selection of measures to be applied to the particular perpetrator, or whether it will be sufficient instead of investigating prisons as an alternative to giving some of the less repetitive measures but with the same effects. Of course, we should also stress the principle of volunteering that the perpetrator of a criminal offence if he enters the process and, of course, that system depends on his will and will, nothing can be imposed on him. Second, what they would like to point out specifically in the context of probationary activities in the exercise of protective supervision, as well as specific obligations imposed with a conditional conviction and replacement of penalties for general good. Namely, the new Penal Code prescribes a wide scope for the institution of protective supervision. In addition, mandatory replacement of prison sentences of up to 6 months of work for the common good is also prescribed. and the court is left to decide whether or not the sentence of a prison is up to one year, as well as the fine will be replaced by work for the greater good. Therefore, in relation to the previous Criminal Code, the scope of the work for the general good has been extended, and it is also specified that the Court can also impose safeguards and special obligations as early as possible. In addition, the length of work for the general public has been well increased by a new Penal Code, and on the basis of its provisions, instead of 60 working days, work can last for a maximum of 720 hours. Otherwise, the equivalent of one day of prison or one day's income is equivalent to two hours of work for the common good. Such solutions under the new Penal Code will contribute to a significant increase in the scope of probationary services, which will also require its spotting, human and professional reinforcement to meet the requirements ahead. The third thing that we would like to stress under this Act is that probational affairs related to a decision to postpone, suspend the maintenance of the sentence, and a conditional discharge with the use of convenience during the execution of the sentence, and supervision of a paroled convict. It is most important to stress that the interdisciplinary action of the various competent resistors with the probationary service as a driver will seek to assist the prisoner even after his release. This is very important, because for the purpose of ensuring accommodation, nutrition, treatment, with advice for the selection of residences and residences, establishing family relations, finding employment or completing professional training, as well as providing financial support for the settlement of the most necessary needs and other forms of assistance. This is what really helps the socialisation system after criminal justice measures have been taken, that indeed in that part of the people, people are helped not only by the basis of individual approach, but also by collective approach. The fourth point they would particularly point out is that the probative transactions in the exercise of judicial cooperation instruments in criminal matters between domestic competent judicial authorities and the competent judicial authorities of other EU Member States are judgments and decisions imposed on trial measures and alternative sanctions. Of course, with the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the probation service will also be responsible for implementing foreign probation decisions, and it is necessary to further strengthen and train that service as we have already said at the outset. The result of its action will be determined whether and to what extent the Republic of Croatia respects and fulfils the obligations arising from the EU acquis. Of course, all these activities will also require resources for the implementation of this law, so that additional resources are needed in the State budget for staff expenditure, so that for example in 2013 it will take 730000 kuna, in the 14th already 4.3 million kuna and in 2015 7.2 million kuna. For material expenditure it will be necessary in 2013 66100 kn, i.e. 2014... 600 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The development of a screening system in the Republic of Croatia was part of an action plan to improve the prison system in the Republic of Croatia from 2009 to 2014 adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Although 80 employees were scheduled to be employed each year, 240 of them will be employed for a total of 90 new employees over the next three years, given the current financial situation. But, of course, all of that in that area when it comes to people, when it comes to criminal provisions, we must not look at individuality with resources. Because what's invested multiple times and how it's going to be returned to us. This can indeed be said as the mayor of the town of Lepoglava in that area where parts of the probation system and the determinations are taking place, and we can indeed say in this context it is very important to highlight this humanistic and corrective approach to punishment, that not only concerns punished persons, but also officials within the framework of the penitentiary, within the framework of the work itself, and of course concerns all citizens. That's why we once again support this final proposal for a law on probation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24177	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. When they are and the bad ones are written laws in Croatia are less of a problem than law enforcement. Practice often suggests in Croatia that perhaps in certain areas we have no law. This can be divided into theory and practice. It is certain that this new proposal, the Final Proposition of the Prosecution Act, is good because it prescribes some basics, prescribes some practice that has come to life in Europe and in part of the world, but often it all comes down to a dead letter on paper. Our probation services are only at the beginning, they are developing and certainly the state gives them too little importance as it gives too little meaning to many other segments when it comes to law and justice. It is said in light of the bill's proposal that the concept of probation has a broad meaning and that it is used in different disciplines. It is said that first of all, we define the treatment of the perpetrator of the crime in the community in which he lives. It is therefore an extra-institutional treatment of the perpetrator of a criminal offence for which the court has assessed that it does not need to be singled out from a wider and narrow social environment, but by setting certain conditions for the freedom of the perpetrator and by helping to overcome certain life difficulties, i.e. risks, it can achieve the purpose of criminal justice sanctions. What it says in the law of probation is very difficult to implement in practice. The trial is sophisticated and service and system and process. We know very well that the trial is focused on social care centers, and there's been an attempt on psychiatry, and when we find that out, we're facing major problems. The trial isn't informationally connected to all these systems. Practice also shows a large number of problems faced by both probationary officers and persons who are on parole, i.e. on parole. Any person who is released on probation should have confirmation that he or she may access either voluntary work or work in one of the communal services should have a health certificate. That health certificate isn't free, it costs, like, 280, 300 kuna. By law, convicts should not bear the costs of carrying out sanctions. So these costs should be borne by the state. For example, when persons who are released on probation are to travel from Buje to Pula or from a smaller Slavonian place to a larger Slavonian place, the state should pay travel expenses. By talking to probation officials, they told me that persons released on parole must not be read, it is forbidden to read the articles of the law because they do not know who has the rights. For what? Because the budgets are too small, because there's no money. We've prescribed something we can't execute. One of the big, burning problems of the probation service is insurance. Surely those who meet and who know how probation services work know that probation officials often have to go to residences of people who are released for parole because of various and unfathomable circumstances, and these people are very violent. Probation officers in these cases should certainly be followed by judicial officers. The most common probation officials, especially probation officials, go to talk to persons of violent behavior themselves, and they are in constant death. This is a problem that the legislator should think very carefully about. That's the problem the Justice Department has to think about before it adopts this law. And they'll start to think only then and seriously pollemize here and discuss when a tragedy occurs. We are known to react when something black, before that to the very warnings, to the possibility of a tragedy we do not react. There are more and more problems in where people who have been released will work. There are less and less legal persons, whether they are local self-government or some state services that want to accept persons on probation. 2/3 of the time probation officers spend in filling out the questionnaires by writing reports, or 2/3 of the time on administrative matters, and at least working on the rehabilitation of prisoners. A country known for its great bureaucracy, a country that has allowed or allowed the authorities that have allowed briocration to impose both the style of governance and decision, and in this case, when it comes to probation services, everything seems to be done as little as possible. At first, I said that the information connection between the service is very important. Probation services are mostly located in the Justice Department buildings. They are a few rooms away from the service that have all the information about convicts who have been released on parole. To start working with convicts released on parole, they need all that information. You know how long you wait for that information? Three weeks to two months. During that time, people who are released to parole are left to themselves. So long as we don't start keeping track of all these practical problems, this law will remain in most cases a dead letter on paper. Because what exactly is resociation? Is it a tighting of cases to get better statistics and statistics towards Europe and not for ourselves, or is it a trial of resociation? These questions will not be answered by this law. Therefore, the legislator should first and foremost enable probationary services to carry out work under normal conditions. Now it's certainly not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24178	Thank you, too. Your Honor, we have two replicas on your display. First and most respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Vuksic, you spoke about the security of probationary officers and here I agree with you that this is one question and one area that is very dangerous for these employees. But it should also be borne in mind that individuals who have been given the opportunity to be paroled at home to resociate in the community that it is not only that, and should not only be the task of the probationary service and the officials to resocialize that person into society, but it should also be the task of the family of that person, the environment in which that person is working. If she was unemployed, she needs to get a job. It will not be able to do the probation service but it will be able to do, for example, the local community in which that person lives if there is a possibility and a good intention. What I was about to say, and it is ultimately dangerous but puts before the perpetrators the possibility or they will be on parole "on the loose" to enter into life and the community again, or this violation will return to prison cells. And it should be borne in mind that the perpetrators of easier crimes should be concerned here, and that is one circle of people who should all be well-intentioned to meet their obligations in order to really resociate. If a person alone is not prepared and aware of the opportunity he has received, then we have a problem but with the probationary service we should also invite the local community and family and the person, friends, surrounded, it is the most important task for this person to truly understand what she has done and that it is as such better if it is resolutely needed by society. As a perpetrator of a crime, no one is needed but can only return to prison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24180	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24181	Dear fellow Salapic, I agree with you. A person who is released to parole should be cared for by all and the family but should be cared for by the state. When I was talking about the security of probation officials, I kept in mind that it's often a matter of mentally unstable persons. Talk to probation officials and ask them what kind of people they work with, what kind of conversations they are, how many times they're really killed, and it's not always the people who did some minor crimes, but those are the people who, I know, are one case where a man threw his own child into the wall, he held one part of the punishment, he was released on parole and the probation officer has to talk to him without insurance. Do you think the most important thing about this convict is that he's going to be working with his family, let's say that this particular man doesn't have a family. It's such a big problem that this law isn't even foreseen, it's not listed, it's not enough about insurance. So this is one law that's good to start with but it's a form without concrete content.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24182	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Vuksic, I agree with you that this law should be supported. It is a law that will improve the procedure to facilitate the prison system by acting on the fact that some of the convicted will get away with a different treatment. But it seems to me that the two aspects here are important, which will have a negative impact on the implementation of this law. It's the first non-compliance of court practice. For the same crime, for example in traffic in one court you will receive 6 months of community service, in another court at 100km away you will get two years in prison. It is clear to me that all human rights of a convict should be safeguarded, but the laws should first and foremost serve to safeguard the rights of the victims. Victims are key persons in this kind of law. The second aspect is working for the general good. Of course, a well-designed idea that works around the world doesn't know whether the Department of Justice or the Prosecution Office, who has already concluded those contracts, has concluded a sufficient number of contracts with companies to do so. I don't know what it looks like at country level. If that's not enough then the whole system falls into the water, people will be waiting in line to come to community service because there's no contract so it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24184	Thank you, Your Honor. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24185	Dear colleague Vuljanić, I'm glad you agree with my presentation. Yes, you were talking about non-compliance with the case law, it's no wonder for a country like Croatia, that for the same offence, for the same crime you can get the diametric opposite sentences, somewhere you can get for a car accident 6 months in prison, at the second court on the other end of Dubrovnik or in Osijek you can get 2 years. And what you said, work for the greater good. Companies are becoming less and less willing to receive parole from persons, especially on some complex jobs, and they are generally receiving municipal services from such a person. Because it is also not prescribed that there are often intentional injuries at work, and yet the law is not prescribed, yet it is not known in which way they are compensated, for example, by sort of intentional acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24186	Thank you very much. It is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24187	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Prosecution Act. So first of all, we supported this law in our first reading with certain remarks. Here I am, at first, showing great satisfaction because I see that the promoter has paid attention to them and that they are mostly all incorporated in the final text of the law. In fact, we agreed that the existing law on probation needed certain changes and additions, first of all, for the reasons that it must be brought into line with, in the meantime, the adopted KZ and the CAP, which in some way expanded this area of probation and the tasks of the probation office, but they introduced something, so one binding measure in that sense, so that we now have according to the law other than that principle of volunteering, which is the fundamental principle of probation, so we have extremely binding provisions. In fact, there has been a lot of talk about being introduced as a measure that will drive out prisons and penitentiarys. This is what will happen eventually, but this has not been fought by these sampling measures, so he fought first of all to do everything to bring the perpetrators of the crime, especially those who are said to be random perpetrators or perpetrators of minor crimes as soon as possible, back to normal life as regular and useful members of the community, to help them and to avoid further criminal infection. It's not some big newspaper law, it wasn't really from the beginning, nor was it the law on probation that was passed in 2009, so that's when the whole area was united in one law, as well as the pronunciation of measures, so the possibility of working for the general good on the loose or the execution of parole for protective supervision. So this already exists in the 1997 KZ, there is also a special law on the enforcement of a conditional conviction with protective supervision and work for the general good at freedom from the '99s. What didn't happen through all those years, which is the application of these provisions, first of all, because courts have rarely spoken them for the reason that in practice there wasn't what we're talking about and now, and that means economic operators who would be willing to hire these people in the course of their activities. And I know that the Ministry of Justice has signed contracts before, and I hope that this is the case now, and that it will be so as to ensure that there are enough places for these measures to be implemented mainly because the new amendments to these fundamental laws from the criminal justice sphere are now laid down to make it mandatory for prison sentences for up to 6 months, so it must impose a measure of work for the common good. Of course, if a convict consents to this, and such a sentence can be imposed within one year, by the judgment of course of the court, such a penalty or measure may be imposed. And so far, before the Prosecution Act was introduced, it was done by civil servants, so from 2009, and so far we've had commissioners who've been doing these probation work. Now, of course, this continues to be more quality and better and through clearly defined legislative frameworks, but also through clear institutional forms, where rehearsal offices are now located in the Ministry of Justice and of course in offices in the territory of Croatia. Here is the first reading of this Law, which actually brought together the text of the existing law with amendments and the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law, of course with some improvements, while transferring the provisions on officials and that administrative structure from the law to a regulation which is set up by the Ministry of Justice. I, of course, express the special satisfaction that has been accepted and incorporated into the legal text that remark we made in the debate in the first reading, which is that the proposed new law has been omitted from the provision of the existing law of 2009 which is that the Ministry of Justice is obliged to submit to the Croatian Assembly a yearly report on the work of probation offices, i.e. the implementation of the Law on Prosecution. At that time, we showed that we felt it was necessary, because it was a whole system that we wanted it to live for, so that we could monitor that it would not again remain a dead letter in the law, so it is good for Parliament to examine the situation each year in the implementation of this Law. It is also now in paragraph 2 of the second article and it is added that this reporting obligation is to be restored. We are equally pleased that a provision has been included in which this text is specified in a way that probationary officials, i.e. offices work on the basis of requests and courts and the State's Attorney's Office with the same strength, because we have objected that in the past text it was somehow more stringent in relation to the State's Attorney's Office, and softer in relation to the court. And we are therefore pleased that, even in the final provisions, the whole law is set to enter into force in 1.1.2013, that there is no delay in the entry into force of one article, and that this article only spoke about the obligation of the Testing Office to deliver reports to the court, which, for incomprehensible reasons, was proposed for the court to come to that right only for a year and a half. We didn't understand why, because if he's got all the data, he's got a reason why he can't deliver it to the court. So now it's fixed. We're glad to see that. I also see that our application has been accepted that probation officers have a card to legitimize or prove to be authorised officials, because under the law they have powers, they can collect certain data from the state authorities that are due to them. Hence, they must in some way prove to be the authority of what they may seek. And here's the thing about this thing where it's the fundamental essence of probation as a measure that needs to be taken by the person they're referring to. So, that the principle of volunteering should be expressed as a fundamental principle, and then it should be said that there are legal exceptions when it will be exceptional, not voluntary, but mandatory under the CAP or the KZ. So, it's also a pleasure for us to have that scholarship changed in that sense. What I might point out as a problem, which is the difference between the proposal and the final draft of the law. The applicant says that he has made an amendment to the second Article 9 in such a way that the change in the place of residence, the residence of the person involved in the trial is obliged to notify the competent probationary office without delay and that its consent should no longer be sought and that this respects the constitutional right of the citizens referred to in Article 32. The constitution which states that anyone who is legally in the Republic of Croatia has the right to settle freely and choose their place of residence. This article, however, states the Constitution, that it can be extremely limited by law if it is necessary to protect the legal order or health or freedom of others. I'd like to think about this provision for a while. So here something is limited by law. So, that the person involved in the trial project asks, asks for the consent of the probationary office. Why? Because when someone's involved in a trial under certain conditions, that's not the case. That person is likely to be convicted already of a criminal offence, so he is under some measure. It has engaged certain capacities of the Office for Testing in one area. Therefore, it takes some time for them to adjust if they move to another area to regulate their relationships, or to transfer it to another office. Now if the person who is in the sampling program simply says one day I inform you that from today I am no longer living in Zagreb but living in Dubrovnik then it is a certain problem and the question is what will arise at that time when she comes to Dubrovnik tomorrow, and there is nothing prepared in the probation office, and we stress the trial is primarily something that is being carried out for the purpose of resociation and for the purpose of helping the perpetrator of the crime. If there is no program with the convict in the trial process, there will be no incentive environment, then the results will be no. These programmes employ certain material and personnel resources. So when they are engaged in one office, the question is that it will be spotless when they change their residence and I think that the text and what was set out in the bill was actually better and more meaningful, and I don't see that it would offend this constitutional provision because it allows legal restrictions, of course, in some special cases. Also, here I am glad that the final text adopted and I think it was the Legislative Committee that says that it can be delayed or allowed to terminate the work for the general good, so there is now accepted besides the risk of pregnancy and the proposal to be parenting for up to 6 months of child's life. Here and now I'm pulling a parallel with this law that we talked about earlier, which is a home arrest or an investigative prison in a home where this same proposal is not accepted, so working for the general good on freedom in my life is less burdensome of parenting than it would have been, than it is staying in an investigative prison. So now it turns out that a mother will be allowed not to carry out a general good measure, but she will not necessarily be provided to be in a house with a child under house arrest but that she has to go to an investigative prison, or left it on trial. All we said in relation to that law was primarily for the sake of the child’s well - being and for the protection of the child’s rights. Here, for all of these reasons that we believe that the testing institute needs to be strengthened, we need to secure enough resources we saw in the bill that certain funds were envisaged, but more significant only in 2014. I ask the question, by now there were some 11 million kunas in that item somewhere, and I'm not sure of the exact amount, but it was about what was being paid so far for the work of the commissioners, so when the probation offices were set up, it was equivalent for 70 officers of the probation offices. As a number are now predicted, and given the entry into force of these two criminal laws, I am not sure what these 730 thousand kunas will be able to do in 2013. So, somehow from these means of insurance, it turns out that in 2013 in fact this law would not apply more seriously, but it would only start in 2014 when the amount of 4 million and 350 thousand kuna is foreseen. I don't think it's a good thing when we're passing the new law that we've improved, then we should also secure the means so that it can be applied immediately and fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24188	Thank you very much. We have a replica of your exposure, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24189	Dear colleagues, Lovrin, you said in your statement that state services must provide the necessary information to the probation service. I agree completely with you. It's prescribed by law. That's logical, and they have to give it information on time. And what about when they don't do it in time? And mostly do not work on time, practice shows that the information is waiting for a very long time, even when all the services are, and probation services and those services they have and they have information in the same building. Most of the time, they've been traveling that information long when they're in the same building. You said that the probation officer had a card and that he could show that I.D. and ask for information himself. It's a very painful job, and in the meantime, people who are released to parole, people who are released to parole, are left to themselves. How to solve this when information is not received in time, and this information is very important for the creation of a program based on which a probationary officer will work with a person who is released on parole. It should be dealt with safely by sanctions, but not by symbolic sanctions, but by sanctions that are appropriate to the offence that is being committed. Because there's life-threatening red tape here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24190	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24191	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I absolutely agree with you, this has to be resolved by a systematic reform of the state administration, and it's not exactly what happens that every official is providing his communication I would say by asking for a thousand and one confirmation, and even when it's not confirmed by law that he's looking for photocopies of any kind, that he's looking for a wallet and you have a ID card, and there's no theory that you've got a ID card if you don't have a housekeeper, etc. It's a deeper fundamental problem. Here I am glad, yesterday we discussed the Law on Criminal Records, so let's say there was a problem that if the court needed that information to write to the Ministry, it would travel the letter, and then it would come back, so the court that solved the case had to wait two months before it had to get confirmation from the criminal record. Now, this law has been improved, and it is said that the court will also have the State's Attorney's office the possibility of direct insight under certain conditions. So a little bit of the law we're dealing with. It's not enough laws, of course, by changing the mentality of every civil servant that he's here for a citizen, not a citizen to ask him something so that he gets paid and... tends to be responsible for that question. So it's a long-term process, of course, and sanctions are welcome in that sense. But also that we have and that is what I often say we need to coordinate the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. It happens that with one law you will be prescribed just to make the situation in this law complicated to the end. And that is why it is good that there is one central body that will promote the application of a certain law to all others existing in the legal system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24192	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDSS, Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24193	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Ministry's representatives. The trial theory suggests that testing is a model of the society's professional reaction to the criminal or misdemeanor behavior of individuals. To these persons, the court imposes a prison sentence but they do not support it but stay in their natural environment but not as lonely as a parole but under expert supervision and with professional assistance. That's what people are given. second chance and they continue to stay in their natural environment, family, school, workplace and, as already said, not alone but according to some professional supervision and with professional help. It's actually a racio legion that we're discussing when we're talking about probation when we're talking about this legal model. The proposed text of the Prosecution Act was in the first version had the title on the Law on Probation Affairs and I think that the title was well changed because basic jobs include a narrow provision or at that time it could be regulated by some sublaws rather than by a fundamental law. The law is on probation, as colleagues have said, not for the first time already seen this model. He was offered to us in 2009 but since one-third of the provisions were changed then it was necessary to approach this business that we are now doing. And otherwise, the probation institute was somehow shyly introduced in '99, and it was then called work for general good and protective surveillance with some kind of general conviction, so it's nothing new. This is just a thing we're trying to kind of update so I don't say by some of my models and modernise. We in the SDSS support this law. We think that this proposed text will make this matter more complex and that it is not an ideal model and colleagues are a lot of good and said by us that in any case it is a good basis for starting talks to say so on this serious subject. And of course, the Republic of Croatia has been forming this legal text in a circle of those countries that have been dealing with this institute for some 150 years. I'm going to say a few things about the law itself, and I won't be too long. So, the basis of the laws of the self-examination system other than that of the social component in any case formally legal component and it rests on the contract. In a contract which a convicted person must and must not do, which is, of course, the basis of some correlation in this relationship, and all of course is in the interest of that condemned person and the prevention of its re-admissible behaviour. There is a professional who needs to help a person resist a number of harmful temptations and to cope successfully with all life’s difficulties that occur at that stage of resociation. Without this kind of help, we think that parole is mostly about passive police surveillance and that's how I say waiting for potential relapsers. Infringer of parole. This kind of cynicism that was happening in practice in a way that was waiting behind the curve actually resulted in an institute called the rehearsal we're talking about today, and of course he found his first place in the U.S. early in the first half of the 19th century. In our law, it is good that, in any case, even 1/3 of prison convicts would be sentenced to easier crimes. So they support easier punishments. They would certainly be for their good behavior released on parole, and during that time some kind of probational model would be offered. It is also good that judges are what would make it easier for judges to pass probational judgment with a trial treatment than has been a practice so far. In our view, however, the perspective of this institute is good, but it would be even better if it were to happen at some happier time, so that it would not be brought in at a time of this economic crisis, because then probably the Ministry would form a probationary administration. Now we have a sectoral level, and we think that the model of the testing administration could somehow be more autonomous and perhaps better quality to monitor the complete development of the testing institute. And finally, we have a proposal one, we're thinking that in the law we should find a solution to conduct the trial except that it's carried out by employees in the sector and in the system to do so and external co-workers so we said who they are, but also that they do so. Commissioners, of course, with a certain fee. Of course, these commissioners should be prominent members of the community where the trial is carried out, they should be specially educated or educated for a job that they accept. This would give the trial an additional social dimension which is not of course a negligible thing and the humane would disburse the system because these jobs that people in the system are now doing in any case would be done by people so-called. Commissioners out of the system, of course, I say again a certain fixed fee. Finally, I think this law is welcome in the context of Chapter 23. Justice and human rights because it's a higher standard than we'd expect. We think that it will somehow lead to the economics of the system because we have in previous discussions, we see that our prison system is overloaded by the number of people who are in the prison system to support the fines we're far from allowed standards and, of course, by testing that prison system is being relieved. Statistics usually say that probation reduces relapse by almost three times, which is a very important social category. Of course, it remains that this idea, that is, this concept of probation, is in this way, as it is stipulated here in the law, to be implemented in practice, and here we now have, we are beginning a little bit of skepticism towards the whole idea because we don't know what society's going to do to people who are covered by trial, and we need to resociate in their environment in such a way. And it is clear that there are limited budgetary resources, therefore the willingness of the system to bring the matter quality to the end expressed in some budgetary positions in this budget, i.e. in the 2014 budget. It is important to note that probation is not only a legal category but also a social category, and this should be well in mind when discussing the concept of testing. And in the end, I'll just say as information that yesterday the Senate of the University of Split adopted a university specialist postgraduate study titled "Probation Treatment". So this encourages because it's obvious that the academic community has also begun to deal with this problem. Otherwise, this seminar lasts three semesters. Thank you very much. So on behalf of the SDSS Club, we'll pass this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24194	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister. Here is another "legal" law before us, a law that should primarily contribute to the security of the legal system, but also to the security of the society in which we live. The trial has been on its own for years in our legislation. These steps cannot be said that at the outset, it is now in its swing because by entering Croatia into the European Union we are also taking on our obligations under Chapter 23 and this is one of the areas which is also the area... in progress so that we will have to prove ourselves in this respect by taking over European commitments, and by taking over those penalties that are imposed in this way in the countries of the European Union that the execution of these penalties will be possible in the Republic of Croatia. What is important in order to do so, we need to be fully prepared for it so that, above all, the staffing of the probation service, the investment in the probation service. This is good that Mr Horvat said a postgraduate specialist study on the subject, it is certainly one step forward that this service in the right sense would liven up its words in Croatian criminal law. Therefore, the purpose of this law is not to punish the perpetrators of criminal offences but rather to the contrary, the perpetrators of all the easier crimes, the persons who were on the other side of the law get a new option first of all from the state, and then from society to resocialize, to understand what kind of temptation they were, what a crime they committed, to try to put these people through various forms of help, which we would say again on healthy feet in a healthy life, and those people above all need to accept the community in which they live and the community where this criminal sanctions would be carried out. The first part of this law is the alignment with the new KZ, which will take effect on 1 January 2013, but what is more important is the whole new task, the brand new frameworks in which the probation service will be found when the new KZ enters into force. First of all, here is the particularly defined treatment of the perpetrator, adding quite new criminal measures which have been known so far in previous laws in a smaller form, new solutions, combined decisions, combined therefore by criminal law institutes that will be applied to the perpetrators primarily depending on the criminal offence they have committed. So the parole of the perpetrator that he can go home under surveillance and follow-up is not only a new opportunity for the perpetrator but also a awareness of how the work was done, that if it is repeated and not followed by the measures that the court or judge of execution that strengthens the role of this Act, that such a person will be found again, so behind bars and again in prison. What Mr. Vukusic said on behalf of the Labour Club about the security of the probationary officers when they have an obligation to visit and monitor the measures that the court has taken for the perpetrators should consider a way to really strengthen the security of the probationary officers when they come to visit those perpetrators who may be more dangerous to the environment, and this all depends on the individual case, the verdict and therefore the degree of danger to the tasters. I am sure that the court would not allow only probation officials to put themselves under attack by persons who have committed serious crimes, and such persons will likely not come under probation unless they have endured the penalty. It provides that even two years after the length of the penalty, measures that are therefore measures to monitor such perpetrators may be imposed, in order not to commit the same offence again. So that's the problem, but the problem depends primarily on financial opportunities. But I believe that in the frameworks, so first of all, the Justice Department of the Interior and the Police can find one common solution in order for this Probation Law to really come to life in the fullest sense of that word. They're different probation jobs. So they depend on the stages of the procedure. We see here that, before criminal proceedings, it is also possible for the State's attorney to decide, in accordance with the principles of the opportunist, whether or not it is necessary to carry out or decide on some kind of probationary measure. So far, the courts had only in habits and customs to detain such a person, put in a prison for investigation, and the question was whether this probationary measure was better to monitor and monitor that person and some additional conditions that could be given under the law, or whether it was a good thing to put such a person in prison. By herself, she feels that she is responsible for the work she has done. It's a more difficult form. This trial measure is definitely good. In addition, the provision of work for the general good, for crimes which are scheduled for up to 6 months in prison, therefore unconditionally deciding to work for the general benefit or even up to a year in prison when the court may decide that such a person may be subject to probation. The change in the law is that it's now 720 hours of work for the common good. It is also a good measure which will, therefore, give the perpetrator a chance to rehabilitate in society and return to the community again. All these measures provided for in this Law are, above all, measures to serve the welfare of persons who have committed a crime, witnesses in the process, and in a different way, victims are being dealt with. That's now, so these changes to the law and the set of criminal law laws that we've passed differently treat. First of all, this is a new challenge for the Croatian judiciary. The Prosecution Act will have no purpose if it is not implemented together with other laws, criminal law, the Criminal Procedure Act and all those measures that we have adopted in this set of judicial laws. This is the good intention of the legislator. First of all, the entire society from the perpetrator to the community in which he lives, I said in my replica, is a challenge for the person who committed the crime, and in order to help the person, there is not only a need to rely on the probationary service because we see that there is not enough financial resources in the state budget for the judiciary. Somewhere by 600 million kunas are reduced funds. We live in a time of economic crisis, but certainly if we want to relieve Croatian courts and Croatian prisons, if we do not want persons who have committed these minor crimes to suffer for no reason in prison then we need to put additional efforts into the probation service, find resources in the state budget to finance the work of the probation service. And this education of people, education, staffing is our European obligation and the signing of conventions and Croatia's entry into the EU and our final negotiations, the contracts in Chapter 23. And we, as a state, have committed ourselves to this, and we are confident that first of all we will help the perpetrators of these easier crimes to return to society before they become from what they say when they were in harm's way to become useful to their community, to their local community where they live, to give them a new opportunity to live. I am sure that the quality of the probation service will give such persons a new swing in life, and that is our obligation to serve the citizens of the Republic of Croatia first and foremost. The HDSSB Club supports this Final Proposal Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24196	Thank you. Are you the last deputy minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24197	Thank you very much. Well, here we are, apostrophe of costs, so let's get to the bottom of it. That's what we missed in the previous line of sight. So, setting up a probationary system is part of the project. Through the 2008 IPA project, the development of the testing service in the Republic of Croatia has resulted in around 2m euros in funding, with the EU subsidising 95%. 5% was on our burden, so we will form a service through these funds, and this is the question that has been asked about budget items in our budget. The data presented here, i.e. the claims that the structure and functioning of the testing offices are not working, are absolutely not accurate. We have spent this year on intensive training of probationary officials, on their education, on establishing all the foundations that are needed to work out, and here we have recognized the most important item, and we have specifically devoted ourselves to informing the digestive system, the exchange of data, at all keeping records, and all of what you have said is, of course, the basis for making appropriate decisions in carrying out experimental activities. We were talking about the paperwork. It is also part of the law dedicated to the necessary documentation for proper implementation of the probation service. If we are talking about the threat of probationary officials, we must in principle say that there are a whole series of professions that are in peril by themselves, including social workers and doctors, etc. I don't think it can be brought to that level especially because we have heard in the debate that it is, and so is the concept of probation and imagined, of persons who are either convicted of minor crimes or persons who, during the course of the proceedings, deserve to be paroled to say so. It is not only that it is the court's decision whether a certain person will allow her to carry out her punishment through the probation system but also that the person concerned should not be interested in jeopardising the fact that she is in the digestive system because of the fact that she is carrying out probation tasks is a report. And someone who's in rehearsal tomorrow doesn't have to be if by his behavior he's led to it. So it's not the point in that. We were talking about a change of residence, and I agree that this is a question that, as stated in the first proposal, was arranged differently, we have now changed it. It's not a simple decision, but what we've been handling is that perhaps or practice will show that the criminal behavior of a particular person may, in most cases, be caused by the sources that arise and in its previous residence, so simply say it. And a person may need to change his residence in order to achieve his resociation in a better way and in another environment. This is to inform the probation office about the change of residence we have introduced as some expression of trust to that person that he is taking responsibility for his life and that by changing his residence he wants to make some improvements. Of course there are possibilities of abuse. We are practically aware that if someone wants to abuse this provision can change their residence every week, but what is his obligation, it is an obligation to fulfil the obligations given to him in the trial program. If he cannot perform the obligations and this is caused by constantly changing his residence, then this will also be the consequence of his trial program, or whether he will be in the trial program at all. We organized the rehearsal within the ministry as management and that's right, this one as a sector. The desire is and the goal is to form a decentralised independent sovereign office that will best implement what we have imagined so that I think only the question of the structure is not so important. We also discussed the issue of external cooperation, and I will only conclude that in Article 34. The central authority of the State Administration in charge of the affairs of the judiciary may conclude a contract with associations and citizens and with other legal persons registered to carry out humanitarian and other similar activities on cooperation on the execution of probationary tasks. This provision is the restoration of exactly what we are working intensively on and where we see a great possibility of cooperation with NGOs. So we think that the help that the NGO will give us here will be very important and we will work very intensively because it seems to us that, within all of this we have just been saying, what is the task and governmental, but also the non-governmental sector, and in fact, each of us as individuals is able to enable the persons who were in the sampling system to be properly included, or resociated in our society. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24198	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Anna Lovrin, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24199	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy Minister, I absolutely agree with you that very often the change in the environment in which the perpetrator lived until then may seem stimulating. So it can get him out of a bad crime scene, bad society, etc. But I've only had a little doubt about this provision that's been amended. Therefore, the previous manipulation to seek consent would certainly give consent in these cases, although it would likely encourage a person to such a measure, and I was a little afraid of this very abuse, or not even so much of abuse, because in that case they could abolish trial measures and bring him back to prison, but more of how the digestive system that is so inefficient is materially and humanely adapted to such changes of residence and in that sense that they should still be familiar with it in advance. Here, just in that sense. Otherwise, of course the decision is questionable, that there are arguments pro and counter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24200	Thank you. And the next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24201	I don't know who the deputy minister was referring to, but I felt the same way called, it's not about, no one was talking about the incompetence of the probation officer and I wasn't talking about it, but I was talking about that the digestive system isn't working the way it's supposed to work. I was talking about one theory, and the other is practice. You said the aprior protection of the probation officer was out of the question. Earlier, my colleague Vuljanic told me that you had seen American films and did you see probation officials come to people who were paroled and released from prison earlier because they committed some serious crime or a minor crime, and could be violent? This easy answer is out of the question, I don't think it's good, it's not even good for probation services, not even for the whole trial system. Then at least two people should go to the interview, so two probationary officers with a person on parole. You know you said it was mostly persons who committed some minor crime, a minor crime. We've just spoken to our strangest at least in my opinion the disastrous judicial justice system disproves you. First of all, different practices, different courts, prisons. You're talking like we're some sort of Western European Scandinavian country. With us, above all, the bad situation in it I was talking about risks and about reducing those risks. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24202	Thank you. We don't have a reply to the replica. Thank you. This concludes the debate on the text of the law. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24203	Final proposal of the law on probation, second reading, P.Z. No. 179. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 110 votes for, 3 votes against and 3 votes are abstentions to the law on trial in the text as proposed by the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24204	And we move on to - Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes, Second Reading, PZ No. 94 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24205	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. This Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes. What led us was the desire and desire to bring the legislative framework into line, or the main amendment that we propose, is that administrative disputes before administrative courts in the first instance of the decision are made by judges to individuals. It is now imagined, and that is, in force, the law according to which they judge in the councils. We compared that arrangement to the other first-degree procedures. In the litigation procedure, the courts shall, on the basis of the Law on litigation and, as a rule, decide the judges of the individual, regardless of the value of the case of the dispute and of the complexity of the matter to be decided. And in criminal proceedings for criminal offences for which it is prescribed as the main penalty fine or sentence of prison generally up to 8 years, it can practically be up to 12 years by judges of individuals. In this context, there is an unfounded provision under which administrative courts who, in the first instance, judge under the Law on Administrative Disputes should decide in the councils. In other words, given the need for the legislative system to be uniform, it is concluded that administrative disputes before the administrative courts of the first degree of decision should be made by judges to individuals regardless of who it is and whether the complexity or not the complexity of the case of the dispute is more so than the decision of the administrative court in the second instance in the High Administrative Court. This change will also lead to increased efficiency of administrative courts, which is exactly what we are seeking, or what we have specifically devoted ourselves to, in view of the results. And in the preparation of the final proposals, we have obtained some data that I will be able to provide if you allow me to present now. So during the first 9 months of 2012 a total of 8200 administrative disputes were launched before the Administrative Court in Osijek 1062, before the Administrative Court in Rijeka 1356, before the Administrative Court in Split 2019 and before the Administrative Court in Zagreb 3763. Compared to the cases received, the decision was decided or taken in 2472 cases, so in 30%. With the Administrative Court in Osijek resolved 411 cases or 38.7%, the Administrative Court in Rijeka 301 or 22.3%, the Administrative Court in Split 225 or 11.14% and the Administrative Court in Zagreb 1535 or 40.79%. I note that of the total of 2472 cases being resolved, the total of these cases in complaints are only 176 cases or 3,07%. Of the 2472 cases, 1192 or 48.20% were resolved, and 1980 cases or 51% solved. This number of items please be considered in relation to the number of persons in these cases deciding. Namely, the number of judges and court advisers in a particular court is not great, but it is small. The Administrative Court of Osijek employs 4 judges and 1 court adviser at the Administrative Court in Rijeka 3 judges and 1 court adviser at the Administrative Court in Split 3 judges and 1 court adviser and at the Administrative Court in Zagreb 13 judges and 2 judicial advisers. These figures about employed judges absolutely point us to the need to increase the number of judges, but in order to go to such a solution, we, on the other hand, need to establish a certain balance or bring efficiency to that level to justify and increase employees, and we think that the way to such an effect is that this normative change is therefore not tried in councils, but that it is judged by judges of individuals. So the analysis of this data that we have presented points to the conclusion that the proposal is justified to give administrative disputes before administrative courts jurisdiction to judge individuals. We also revised the cost decision. We have concluded that, with the basis of the data that we have obtained this year, there is a need for a different regulation of the decision on costs in administrative disputes, in a way that each party bears its own cost. We have also improved the expression of certain provisions of the law in order to bring it into line and make it accurate. And that is briefly what we had between the two readings and what we were obliged to illustrate, or what we said we would present today at the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24206	Thank you, too. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister. So before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes, and as the argument also puts it, it is about the main intensity, and that is to change the unification of the legislative system which we support in any case. In addition to unifying the legislative system as a fact for ourselves, of course, what we are most interested in in these amendments and amendments to the law, which is to find a way to really increase the efficiency of the judicial system, that is, as the judicial officials have said to resolve the backlogs. The scope of the citizens' judicial protection from the public administration's actions is particularly reflected in the legal arrangement of the administrative dispute cases. We know that a long period of time has passed until the moment of paying attention to this important segment. The Law on Administrative Disputes was adopted in 2010 and this is to comply with European standards because, following the declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia and its establishment, a new Law on Administrative Disputes was not adopted but the Law on Takingover was adopted by the 1977 Law on Administrative Disputes, which was twice amended in 1992. Of course, in the meantime, Croatian legislation passed a series of legislations that regulate specific administrative areas, but not administrative disputes. This is how official law, local and regional and regional self-government, empowerment and a number of other issues have been passed. At the same time, the Law on Administrative Disputes has not met in many ways the latest standards of judicial protection in the law of the Member States of the European Union, but neither the contemporary concepts of both Croatian legal sciences nor profession. Administrative disputes took years at the same time, and thus, in the context of the adjustment of Croatian legislation to the acquis of the European Union, joined both the drafting and adoption of a new law that regulated judicial oversight of the work of the administration. According to the Law on Administrative Disputes, which is in force, the rule is to decide in administrative disputes in a council of three judges, and the judge is only an exceptional one. Although it has been a long time to settle this problem, the way the Law on Administrative Disputes dealt with it is evident that the backlogs in administrative disputes have risen again, and this will, of course, result in an even longer period of time of judicial protection. Since the primary objective of the Law on Administrative Disputes is to ensure judicial protection against the work of the administration, judicial supervision of the legality of the work of the administration and the institute of the administrative dispute is one of the most important issues of the administrative law of each State. The guaranteed degree of judicial protection, as well as its effectiveness, are key elements in the assessment of each modern legal system. The principle of judicial protection protects the individual whose rights have been violated and prevents the excess of the powers of the executive and administrative authority to the detriment of the citizens. Today, in a litigation procedure, judges are generally judged by individuals, both in the most complex and high-value cases of the dispute. We therefore believe that there are no valid arguments that in administrative disputes a council of three judges should be tried and that effectively and legally cannot resolve cases in administrative disputes an individual judge. With the harmonisation of the legislative system, the argument of reducing the backlogs and the speedy settlement of disputes is certainly a contribution to support these amendments in this direction, and we believe that there is certainly a need to pursue equality, and it is justified that even in administrative disputes before the courts of the first degree, the judges are individuals, regardless of the complexity or value of the cases of the dispute, and in particular not only because of the uniformity in the trial of the Republic of Croatia but also because of the fact that the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia is established as a secondary court. We believe that solving cases by judges could significantly contribute to the timely resolution of cases and therefore we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24208	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law is technical, an administrative trial is organised, administrative disputes in a more rational way and is being cheaped. Everything has to be cheap and this trial, and it's really illogical that we have this gap between criminal proceedings in a municipal court that is tried by one judge and a administrative dispute in court of the same level that is tried by a council of three judges, regardless of the size of the dispute. That's perfectly unnecessary. We're short on judges, especially in a situation where administrative disputes are burdened in the way ours are. It won't be any less because the whole situation doesn't improve economically first. So people will probably be judged more in this part than they've ever been before. Some of the provisions are interesting and I think we should say something about them. Article 3 refers to a situation where there is an unnecessary debate, that is to say, when, on the basis of the facts established, the right is applied without discussion in which participants would participate. It's just fine if the participants agree with it themselves. So if the participants estimate that there's really no point in wasting time and energy, that all the evidence is as it is and lets the court simply play the role of arbiter in such a situation. However, when the court considers that this is so and without the consent of interested parties, I am not sure that it is good for both the court and the parties. Of course, abuses are possible, but let's not talk about it. Our judges don't do abuses, but they may be misjudged. I don't think that, without the consent of interested parties, it should be done. In fact, Article 16 explains the nomenclature’s name on the inside, so the decision is amended in the wording of the judgment, etc. Someone obviously in the previous text of the law confused the elemental things. A court ruling and a court ruling are not necessarily the same. Of course judgment is the kind of decision. But they're definitely not synonyms. I don't know who that was before. Someone did. Now it's rectified and good to make the law clearer. Article 17 is, in my opinion, quite questionable. As formulated by the proponent in administrative disputes, each party settles its costs. Croatian Labourists think that in this way the citizens, the citizens of the individual, are placed in a certain position, that in the good part, they are prevented from having access to even trial and access to justice in these cases will find it difficult for a citizen who is absolutely right and who knows that he is both management and confirmed by lawyers and experts that he is right to decide to enter a procedure for which he will have to bear his own costs and he is right. I don't see the justifications of such a provision. And in Article 18, I would like to be explained if possible. Paragraph 1 states that administrative disputes will be initiated until the date of entry into force of this Act will be completed in accordance with the provisions of this Act, unless otherwise specified by this Act. Unless this opens up the possibility of objecting to the retroactive action of laws and complications, possible lawsuits and the costs of the state in such a procedure. Because if the procedure is initiated not only by court, but also by any other procedure that the government and the state are dealing with, if it has been initiated by one procedure, then in the meantime, the second procedure is generally followed by the regulation under which the procedure was initiated. I think that's how it should stand here for the simple reason to avoid possible complications that could come about. Croatian Labourists will support this Law because they consider it an improvement in the existing system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24210	Thank you, too. We have one replica of your exposure, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Vuljanić, so it's not good things to simulate quite. That's what we talked about in the first reading debate. In fact, we can discuss changing the law in a way that in the first degree, in administrative disputes determines the judge individual. But the simplest thing to do is to even it out with the Law on a litigation procedure, i.e. with a criminal procedure in which the judge also decides the individual in administrative disputes is a slightly different situation. In the administrative dispute before the judge comes a legal problem which has already been solved twice and where the citizen was in front of a professional person, therefore in a administrative procedure. In the Law on Prosecution, the first time a citizen comes with a request, with a claim to exercise his right to another citizen, and this is about the attitude of a citizen to a state body. He was once. An expert was working in an appeal procedure, an expert was doing it. Therefore, it is obviously a more complex legal problem in which the law has decreed that a citizen has the right to access the court and that he is now asking the judge as qualified to determine. It may have been a war why in the Law on Administrative Disputes this existing text ordered it to be a judicial council. Let us not forget that a whole group of domestic and foreign experts have worked for many years to prepare this text of the law and that there was probably some reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24212	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24213	Oh, I agree, my colleague. What comes to the Administrative Court is actually a third-degree decision. It was already in two degrees the first and the complaint was in front of some authorities, no matter what. However, I still think it's perfect enough that in the first degree of this decision, a third one competent judge can decide not to need three. Finally, if the appeal is made in the next proceedings, there will be three at the High Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24214	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24215	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. I must commend Mrs. Deputy is extremely valuable and is often with us in the House so that some of the remarks that were at the beginning may not stand. Since we are absolutely related to the amendments proposed here in the first reading, and it is crucial that this amendment, which refers to administrative disputes in the first degree, is decided by the individual judge, and where more or less everyone in the debates agreed that this is a good proposal, that it will increase the efficiency of the judiciary, and that today we are more or less all in that this final proposal will be good and be so we will vote and the HNS of course, however, the Vice-President is, in its opening statement, in fact a principle that opens up the issue of the functioning of not only possible judiciary, but in this particular case of the judiciary. So, unfortunately, our citizens have learned what is said as asses on beatings, that is to say, the old saying says justice is slow but it's reaching. I mean, that's exactly where the HNS wouldn't agree that this is the best situation where justice is slow but accessible. And it's about what you said that we're actually extremely impoverished, that we don't have enough financial resources to hire a larger number of judges. You talked about the number of judges in individual administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia, and certainly when we put it in relation to the number of procedures we have, and also those numbers you spoke of, it's quite clear at first sight that this is not enough and that we can pass excellent law and in this law determine excellent procedures but that the question is whether the efficiency of the entire system will achieve the goal we want, which is that justice is to be achieved within a shorter period of time. This is what I think will open us not only in this subject but also in all other topics when we talk about public administration in general and in the judiciary as well. We will, of course, support this, given that this is one significant possibility of some kind of progress in the whole story. But until the moment we decide to really tackle these systems to reduce that number of cases because it's thousands of cases I think it's simply a certain number of people at a certain time to a certain number of procedures that won't be able to overcome the satisfaction of our citizens. And that's kind of our ultimate goal. Here means in the context of this second debate in the second reading we will, of course, support as well as in the first reading that we have said this proposal by thinking that we will need to consider in a purely operational sense how to solve this enormous amount of subject which, of course, produces and the great dissatisfaction of our citizens with this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24216	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24217	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HDSB Club will support amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes, but will also try to point to certain problems that may arise precisely in these amendments, not arguing that this will indeed be the case. But given all this that has been happening so far in administrative courts in the length of proceedings, in the problem of resolving the claims in administrative disputes by making a solution, it is evident that this part of the judiciary did not function properly, but rather the longevity of these proceedings pointed to and certain I would not say the difficulties but rather to certain ineffectiveness of administrative disputes. I remind you that since 1 January 2012, they should have started to operate first-degree administrative courts, but although they did not begin to appoint enough judges before the entire law was really brought to life, the Proposer goes into these new changes by wanting to, and hopefully, wanting first of all to increase the efficiency of the courts. And the main change is that instead of a council of three judges to decide the judge individual. We point out that it is possible, above all, to distinguish between the Law on litigation, because in litigation proceedings, private disputes are decided, and administrative courts cannot be reduced exclusively to the level of litigation, but these administrative courts should also be one of the control of the legality of the conduct of the state administration. First of all, the judicial protection of citizens from the state itself, illegal police procedures, taxpayers, customs officers, various inspections, construction services, certain inspectorates etc., etc. The law and the Ministry of Justice propose this law exclusively for the purpose of saving and rationalising, and I also hope for the efficiency of the administrative disputes themselves. This may be the place and time to restart the problem which has also been created for the same reasons of efficiency, when and I hope we will discuss it in more detail in the Law on the Network of Courts where it is precisely the reason for rationalisation have abolished certain and courts, municipal courts where certain cases have been transferred to much smaller environments where just the former ministry to one I would say, first of all, by a political decision to abolish that kind of court. The most famous example is certainly an example of the transfer of criminal cases from the Municipal Court to Đakovo to the Municipal Court to Nashice. The original proposal was also to abolish the Municipal Court in Nasice which would not be good, but given the Court's equipment in Djakov's number of judges, the number of cases and the equipment of the Nasice Court, a completely insane decision has been made, not to mention that between the far greater city of Djakova and the far smaller town of Nasica there is not even any kind of traffic connection. No railroad, no bus. In the same way it happened with the state's attorney's office where the entire state's attorney's office was transferred, so the state's attorney's office from Djakova was transferred to Nasice State's Attorney's Office. So, again on behalf of the club, we appeal to the ministry and a parliamentary question has been raised without still answering the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also to the Ministry itself, that one decision for which the former deputy minister was removed while taking office but rewarded with the place of deputy state attorney in the city of Zagreb without real indicators and all elements that could justify such a decision. And it is not only the problem of abolishing these courts but also other courts throughout Slavonia and Baranja where practically all cases from municipal courts that existed under the cover of rationalization were all transferred to the Municipal Court in Osijek. Here we should certainly say that there is no question of saving because we are in a difficult economic moment, but the question of where and what to save on. So rather than following the draft four first-degree administrative courts as unnecessary suspension of the Office of Appeals of the Ministry of Finance and similar services in other ministries, I support this decision that in this first-degree section, instead of the Council of Judges, it is decided by a court, regardless of the possibility of far easier exerting political pressure on it. But we are also asking that these services be abolished which are indeed in this efficient settlement of administrative disputes, and it is really not a place to mention the number of employees in all these complaint services. Here I hope that this efficiency will help resolve a administrative dispute that was launched in early 2009 at the 1st month. It is also a private lawsuit, but it is also the case of the city of Djakova, which is related to the administrative court as well as to the high administrative court. I hope we don't wait for three more elections to get rid of that administrative court. Namely, I will remind you that the lawsuit was based on the Law on Local Elections, the establishment of a councillor where practically within the force and the Ministry of Justice itself, which brought a certain opinion of the deputy councilman, was no longer able to change the party and bearer of the list of political parties rather than just the Ministry of Justice's opinion that the original mandate of the man who was 19th was on the list of original mandates, not the mandate of the one elected on the list. I recall that the party by law and the holder of the list was the one who could change the deputy councilors, so here I am asking that we do not welcome, although the elections were held in the city of Djakov's local elections in the entire Republic of Croatia, here is the administrative dispute that sought efficiency, which sought the speed of resolution still squatting somewhere in the drawers of the administrative court and the High Administrative Court which still has no answer primarily for the sake of truth, justice, but also the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia still does not have its own right. So here's since the elections are coming, the local elections in 2013, here's what I'm asking the Justice Department for, but also for the High Court to finally resolve this dispute so that we don't have this happening in front of us and the second reading of the Law on Local Elections and the local self-government so that no more trading happens to council members, mandates, and I don't know what it is. Many parties are familiar with such a way and practice in political life where certain mandates were worth 500 thousand kuna from the state budget, and where even independent lists crossed with the promise that they might be built by primary schools, secondary schools, etc. Well, on behalf of the club, we're asking to get rid of it as soon as possible. So we will support this law, bearing in mind this caution that is related to the possibility of political pressure on an individual judge, and the administrative court should, above all, be in the protection of citizens from the state itself and from state decisions and even from national violence against citizens' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24218	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister. The HDZ Club, in its first reading, supported the adoption of this law regardless of the doubts raised about the simplification of the procedure's comparison. However, here is the explanation that the proposer submitted to us with the final draft law, it said that, in relation to the text of the draft law which was first read in the Croatian Parliament, there were no objections or proposals from individual parliamentary committees, clubs or individual parliamentary representatives. So I don't know if the promoter saw and read phonograms, so there were certain objections and we expected that they would be shown by the Proposer and say whether he accepted them or for some reason he didn't accept them, but that's why we have amendments to the motion itself in relation to the first draft laws that aren't insignificant. What we can say, which is that in the debate on the draft law in the first reading, we have therefore expressed one need to present to the representatives the situation and some of the results of the application of the new Law on Administrative Disputes. Namely, as we know in 2010, the Law on Administrative Disputes was passed. This was one of the criteria set out in Chapter 23, and it was required that, in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and in the administrative trial, so-called. a dispute of full jurisdiction and that the administrative court is bound to conduct a hearing unless the law provides that it is not necessary. As I said, some European Union projects were also working on the draft of this law on a very wide range of European Union experts, foreign experts. He also worked a whole series of our administrative trial experts and administrative law and the 2010 text is the result. After that, we had one year of adjustment throughout 2011 and since 1.1. that law has come into force. We asked to be presented with some information on the application, here and this is the Deputy Minister's office today, and in the light of the law, these data were also presented. Of course, as I said, the administrative procedure, or this procedure in front of the administrative court, is somewhat different because citizens are mostly complaining about the conduct of state bodies and decisions of state bodies, so on the other hand, it is someone to say so more conditionally powerful. Similarly, according to the currently established system, it turns out that the administrative procedure, i.e. an administrative object, is more protected than other criminal or civil law cases, because actually when we calculate, we have five degrees. First of all, two degrees in the administrative procedure, two steps in the administrative trial, and finally we have the possibility of an extraordinary review of the legality of the final judgment before the Supreme Court. And I don't know if it's very good with the efficiency and financial opportunities of the state. So it certainly has to weigh. Of course, one of the principles of administrative trial is established by the law and the principle of economic and efficiency. And therefore this proposal by the Government is made logical before the Administrative Court in the first degree. Of course, from this report on application in the 9 months of the Law on Administrative Disputes, we saw that it was actually happening. As it happened in practice, and the law prescribed it differently, I don't quite understand it, but I think that in practice it would have been legal, because until now and in the former system of administrative trial, mostly cases were solved by a judge reporter who then came before the council and informed the council and mainly his decision was confirmed. But here's the thing, if there were no objections, there were objections. In particular, we have warned of this provision that it is generally determined to judge an individual judge. We warned of a newspaper in the Law on Administrative Disputes, which is so-called. look at the dispute as one particularum and something that has been introduced new. And to consider whether or not you would hold the council in deciding on the dispute. It is, therefore, that if there are several first-degree administrative disputes, if the case is the same legal or factual basis that the court may decide that the case will be settled in the review dispute and then pro futuro means that these further cases will be, that no debate will necessarily be held in each other's proceedings, but will be resolved by the basis of the established factual, factual situation in this examination dispute. Since this is about solving a larger number and something that will continue to be applied to other cases, there may be places and we noticed and remarked, but we did not get a response from the promoter. A place to stay, however, to deal with the council in these cases. Also something that we find difficult to agree with and what happened between the first reading and the second reading, and the proposer says that practice has shown. In fact, the practice has shown likely that out of these 8,000 and how many cases, of which 1,000 and how many have been resolved by the verdict that the party may have succeeded in the administrative dispute. So according to the Law on Administrative Disputes, the issue of costs is settled, and when we talk about the unification of the law, then it should probably lead to a level playing field between the Law on Prosecution and this Law. So, in the Law of Prosecution when a citizen sues another citizen for the exercise of one of his rights, mostly another citizen, then depending on the success of the dispute costs. So, the one who lost the slow-to-bear and the cost of the other party because he unfoundedly exposed it to those costs. But what happens now. Here is an article 79 that changes from first to second reading, as the promoter says that it has shown this practice. It is likely that the state must pay a lot of costs to the citizen who started the administrative dispute, so so far it has been laid down by law to settle the costs of the party who lost the dispute, and now the article changes and says in administrative disputes each party settles its costs. What's the reason? Except the state doesn't pay the cost if it loses. However, the citizen will pay if he has sued unfoundedly, but I think that this is the way in which the court is actually denied and that we are actually playing the principle that we have changed this Law in the first place, which is to ensure human respect for human rights under the European Convention. So most of the administrative dispute is driven by the citizen. Which one? One who is dissatisfied with the decision of the administrative body in two degrees. Suppose there's a reason, that he won't engage in an unfounded administrative dispute, and then when he gets it, he should bear all these costs himself. For example, he complains about the tax administration's decision that had come to his mind, nor did he go out on the ground to assess his real estate. He complained, no one read the complaint, and he had no other choice but to go to the administrative dispute. In the meantime, he'll have to pay for it, of course, because his interest will flow, because the solution will become executive. Then he'll be in charge of the administrative dispute, and on condition he gets it, his money will be paid back, and all the expenses he's spent on representation, let's just say he's ignorant, so he has to be represented by a lawyer, he'll be on his own. And I don't think that's right, and I don't see why that would be. The very saying that the practice has shown that it is not good I do not believe, perhaps it is precisely for the benefit of the citizens. Maybe the citizens lost a lot of administrative disputes, and then there's no need to pay the costs to the state, because the proposer suggested this. I really don't know because from the sentence practice has shown he can't see the burden of who they are, who was burdened with these costs, so now he's getting rid of it in this way in a way that everyone pays their own expenses. As far as the law itself is concerned, we may have said that in practice it is how it is seen from the data that 95% of cases and so far solved by an individual judge might be good to put it in the law and act legally. Given the number of judges we see we have, it's obviously impossible to form a council. These problems are not only the Administrative Court, they often have criminal problems, smaller criminal courts, so we have changed these laws several times because of the inability to implement them, so we have introduced both a provision and a criminal law that if the parties agree and if the council is required to act according to the law that an individual judge can act. It all makes sense because we're not out of the world and the time we live in. Therefore, we must adapt to the possibilities. Therefore, this provision that a court and judge individual could have the arguments for and may be accepted only as I say I do not know what the arguments were then after that long preparation for the adoption of this new Law on Administrative Disputes. This cost decision I would really ask the Proposer to explain to us what he said, which he said, and otherwise, about the administrative procedure we talked about in the debate on the previous law we also adopted a new Law on administrative procedure, we expected everyone very much from him. Nothing has happened for the simple reason why it is in practice not applied. Therefore, the provision that state authorities or public authorities are obliged to collect all available data from public records, rather than send the party to do so alone, as said in the room across the street, is still happening. Therefore, without systematic reform, but not the Law in administrative proceedings, but the practice of implementing this law, unfortunately, we will not have quick administrative procedures, and by doing so in administrative disputes, or they will generate unnecessary new administrative disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24220	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24221	Well, here's a distinguished colleague of mine, you mentioned smaller municipal courts, or courts in smaller places, and here's since I received a reply from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on December 4, 2012 in which nothing really writes about the network of courts, but is found when it is done, not why it was made, and that, in accordance with the results of some of the analyses carried out, appropriate changes will be proposed in the network of judicial bodies according to this and the necessary changes. Well, here's because today we have these amendments and additions to the Law on Court Courts, I don't see these changes, and I will remind you that your government and your ministry have done a rationalization in the Croatian way where this criminal part of the Municipal Court in Djakov has abolished and these criminal cases have been transferred to Nasice. It also abolished the State's Attorney's Office in Djakov and transferred the State's Attorney's Office to Nasice. Not to mention again that there is no such traffic connection unfortunately two cities, and this government did not accept that amendment for the reconstruction of that extremely bad road I will just tell you that for many years from Djakova and Osijek, certain criminal cases have been transferred so that there are five judges there to have something to do, so that a narrow part of the town of 7 956 inhabitants have a municipal court in Nasice, while at the same time around a potentially 18 thousand cases in the process were handled in the Municipal Court in Djakov. So where was this so much intelligence and rationalization when one crazy decision was made? Is that based on the question of who is a member of any political parties in Djakov or Nasice? Or should I ask Mr. Shakespeare?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24222	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. We have a reply to the replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24223	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague in Djakov, I happen to know who the mayor is, I have no idea who's in Nasice, and especially who was in Nasice when the Law was passed on the rationalization of the network of courts. I don't know, I didn't care. So what the government didn't answer to you today in December 2012, and she said what she could have said to you, and it will certainly happen that further rationalization of the network of courts will happen for reasons that allow for a better trial. Therefore, a court which cannot provide a council to work in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, a court that cannot provide for the specialisation and education of judges for certain parts, i.e. civil, criminal law and even a rope of specialisation cannot and will not judge quality, and it is most important for citizens to get a swift and high-quality verdict. And therefore, the frequent objections that went to our government at the time and towards the ministry that only paper rationalization happened, that the buildings remained in fact, I and then claimed that only physical merger was not a rationalisation of the network, so physically it could remain a building, could remain an office day so that the court would be able to allow citizens to access the court, but what is important to be joined in one court and court cases so that, according to specialization, they could be awarded cases and quality of these procedures, quality, rational and fast-tracked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24224	Thank you. And the next replica, Drazenko Pandek. You didn't get a word from your colleague Vinkovic. It's a lovely Pandey replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24225	Thank you. Here's a esteemed colleague of yours, in your debate that you mentioned... you encouraged me to look a little bit at the depth of that problem. In fact, it seems to me that in the first place the basic problem is that often the costs of the proceedings are not only in the administrative trial but also in the litigation particularly highly determined. They are often determined according to the value of the subject matter. I think that here also the committee's representative at the debate pointed out that one condition here was the fact that the very high value of the cases of the dispute was often determined and that this led to very high costs of the procedure being incurred. I think that I would take this opportunity to encourage and debate about it and thinking that maybe another... determining the value of the issue of the dispute because obviously this is a problem for the state here on administrative courts, and apparently such a problem should be seen as being with both citizens and the state in the same way and also considering also determining the costs of litigation and view and legal fees but also the compensation to witches and other costs that may not correspond to how it should be to be done outside of a particular court procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24226	Thank you. We have Anna Lovrin's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24227	Thank you very much. I would like to agree with you in the section that it is necessary to pay attention to the costs of the dispute, that judges should not be tied to the party's qualification of the value of this dispute but to their judgment as far as it is worth, hence, by setting the costs. For costs to be reduced equally so that they should pay attention to the necessary and unnecessary skills to be determined. But all this is not the reason that it is irrelevant for this law and for this provision on who carries the costs in this law, we can generally consider it, and also in the Law on a litigation procedure and in general the Law on Taxes, etc. But here it is important that between the first and second readings it happened that from the provision at which the costs of the proceedings were borne by the party who lost in the procedure it is now said that everyone is carrying their own costs and is said to have shown this practice, the practice of these nine months. Now it would be interesting to hear in those nine months who were more cost-effective. Whether the state was making up for more compensation to citizens or whether it was the other way around, or whether citizens were paying more money to slow down more citizens or more states, and who was more burdened and to whom this provision would be reflected well. And I believe it will be adopted in view of the parliamentary majority and since this is the final text of the law. But it would be good to hear who will ultimately pay more for the state or citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24228	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the Proposer, Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24229	Thank you very much. So here's final and short. So if I can recapitalise the decision, it is about the need and justification of amending the law on the composition of courts or on the trial of individuals in administrative disputes as positive and we are grateful. This amendment is the result of the need to align the regulatory framework in which courts act in the first degree, and that is the first and primary objective. Of course he will then reflect in some part of this financial and government budget, given the employment of judges but what we think, we think there is still room that inside this Corps that we have that we can otherwise and properly deploy and fill out those places that are insufficient. We've been speaking to a visual dispute as a possible exception to the remaining judges of the board of directors. We feel that such a solution is not necessary and not justified. Namely, the view dispute is the one in which the establishment of an appropriate jure-subordination will later act in the same way and we think that the judge of an individual can decide without the need to decide the council because the quality of the visional dispute is the quality in the second degree. The question of costs has been asked, we have determined that administrative courts are acting under the territorial jurisdiction of the prosecutor's residence, therefore the party not satisfied with the decision of the unit of local self-government or the decision in the previous administrative procedure. It is this previous procedure that is characterized by the fact of our own, or gives an argument for our decision on costs. In order for the party to come to a administrative dispute, it should be dissatisfied with the decision made by the local authority in the administrative procedure. and, in that previous procedure, certain evidence has been carried out. And in that previous procedure, the costs for that party have already been decided. Of course, each party has the right to dissatisfaction but what practice has shown is the question of how the late administrative dispute is being conducted or whether certain evidence is being carried out without the need for a realistic basis for them to be carried out. Therefore, it does not matter who was burdened with costs during this period but whether these costs were necessary or not. We believe that the provision on the enforcement of costs to be borne by each party ultimately leads to the rationalisation of this administrative procedure, or that the evidence carried out should not be re-proved, that they can be used properly in favour of the claimant, and which, of course, will be decided by the administrative judge himself. And what will be where will reflect the provision that every... The party bears its own cost is actually for all of us because budget items will reduce the cost of administrative trial. [[The speaker speaks too fast, he doesn't understand.]] This is what the goal is, therefore, not to repeat the evidence without any need. This is where we talked about the fact of the lack of judges, of course we're aware of her, that's what we first said. The issue of streamlining the network of courts is a matter that is extremely intensively addressed by the Ministry of Justice. This is a topic that has been addressed by the Croatian state in general for a long time. Of course certain decisions will also cause some dissatisfaction, but the rationalisation of the network of courts is not only an issue of economics but a question of equating judicial practice, and this question has been raised today again. The case-law needs to be evened out, and there will be a smaller number of higher courts that in a better way of specialising and what is already said here will lead to a more uniform treatment in similar cases. Of course, there is a possibility that, within the implementation of rationalisation, a certain deficit, for example, in administrative courts, could be filled with surpluses elsewhere. We will establish and set up the network properly, but this is not a process that is simple, which can be mathematically solved, but depends on what costs we have in relation to buildings, as regards officials, as regards travel costs, etc., that I am not longer now but we are certainly dealing with it. So we are also dealing with the part that we will now make certain amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Courts, which are also part of this entire programme to rationalise and operationalise the system and set up courts in Croatia. Here's the short one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24230	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24231	Right here, we said we'd support it, but I can't agree that balancing court proceedings will allow two or three large courts. So on the one hand, we have one kind of rationalization, on the other hand, we're making extremely large costs also within the entire justice system. For example. not wanting to abolish the Municipal Court in Nasice most officials and judges in the Municipality Court of Nasice travel to Nasice while all judges from the Municipal Court in Djakova and also employees of the State Attorney's Office who were far more than those in Nasice are from Djakov. If it is a citizen, then he must, because he has one bus line, he must rise at 4.20 hours so that he can reach the bus station and return from Nasic at 22.30, or leave Nasic to Djakov, 35 km away at 22.30. There's nothing in between. All citizens involved in criminal proceedings so they have a car, could have been taken away from them if they had stolen a little more. On the other hand, they have the right to travel expenses paid out of the state budget. Where's the rationalization? And in the end I get the answer that the former government did it then and then, that date and that a certain analysis would be made. So here's an analysis so suggest as soon as possible these changes because what was done a year ago is total absurdity and total idiotism and whoever brought it really idiotism. You bet...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24232	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24233	You put yourself in that citizen who has to get up at 3:00 in the morning to be back at 12 o'clock in the evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24234	Thank you. You're done. Thank you. And the next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24235	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy Minister, I'm sorry I have to replicate this to you, and it seems to me that you are at least guilty of this, but you've said it all. After all, what we have determined will be borne by citizens, will provide more money in the state budget. Of course, when Minister Linic cut everything for you for the judiciary, when it was obvious that you would not be able to implement what was set out in the laws and then resort to other measures. So he's resorting to it, you're talking about unwarranted evidence, etc., execution. I guess that's what the judge will decide whether they're justified or unwarranted. Another thing, a citizen comes to the administrative court when he is unhappy with the resolution of the state body. So if I sue a neighbor who contests my right and I get a lawsuit with a neighbor, my neighbor will have to pay me a fee. Why, because he illegally challenged my right. When the state does the same thing to me, so it doesn't give me my first degree right in the administrative procedure, in the second degree I sue her and I get a verdict, and then that state won't pay me back because it doesn't concern her because there's no money in the budget and let everyone bear their own expenses. That's the point, and that's what we're saying, and that's what happened between the first and second reading of the law. Is that normal? Is that the equation of the system? We were just saying that we're introducing an individual's judge into this law to even him out with the Law of Prosecution and Penalty. And now, as far as costs are concerned, in a litigation, the cost will be borne by the one who loses the dispute, and in the administration where the state is being sued and where the state is threatened to lose its disputes there, each will bear its own expenses. What we didn't get the answer, at least I didn't get the answer because theoretically there's a possibility that it might be favourable for the citizens, to read from this analysis how many cases the citizens have succeeded with their lawsuits before the administrative court. And I warn you that there's a lot going on in administrative proceedings and that it's really a Kafkian situation and people need to be given access to the administrative court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24236	Thank you, colleague. Time's up. This is what we've ended the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24237	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative disputes, second reading, P.Z. No. 94. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24238	We continue with - Final draft law supplementing the Law on Property and other real rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 215 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Is it on behalf of the proposer? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24239	Thank you very much. Well, here's what we're proposing is an amendment to just one article, but now I have to talk about it further. In fact, the Law on Property and other real rights has set a certain deadline that expires on 29.12., so for a day and for that very reason not to expire, and we are not responding properly in the urgent procedure of amending that provision. But we've had some difficulties, so I'm going to try to put it out for a little while. It all comes down to the fact that everything goes from the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law. In fact, the citizens were able to buy their apartments. And in order not to be held in that right, in case their building wasn't properly registered, we established so-called. The book of contracted contracts, so the apartments entered the book of contracted contracts. And now we have proof of ownership in the book of the contract, and we have land books. They both have the same legal power. However, for a regulated rule of law, it would be good for those two data sources to be leveled and united. In this respect, the Law on ownership and other real rights was amended in 2009. In accordance with Article 379 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 379 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 10 thereof, So, that the party that bought the apartment from the household law should be registered not only as the owner of that apartment, but as part of the building and that the book of contracted contracts should be merged with the main book. At the same time, the law lays down a deadline of three years from the date of entry into force of that law, given the publication in the National Journal. It's now running out, so 29th of December 2012. What was the problem with us nomotechnically is that this transitional and final provision was made in particular in Article 3. So we, in fact, set a deadline in this particular article and did not agree on a three-year deadline, or when we had a discussion on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, concluded that maybe we should consider a different normation. So there's no need to calculate. It is also indicated that the addition of the law is not an appropriate term and in this sense we have received the amendment, and then it will be discussed later. Here, the point of this amendment, or the goal we want to achieve, is to extend this deadline by an emergency procedure for harmonising the book of contracted contracts and the main book for a further period of three years. And I must point out here that this alignment depends not only on the conduct of the courts, because we have received, or the courts have received about 500 such requests. I'm sorry, 3,000 requests have been filed, about 500's been resolved. Another 15,000 such proposals are being prepared, i.e. requests for the alignment of the book of contracted contracts and the main book. The difference between those who need to be submitted and those who have been submitted shall be obtained in the need to provide adequate documentation to the construction bodies and the cadastrian authorities in order not to regulate the ownership and legal status of these apartments in this regard. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24240	Thank you, too. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Unless I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club Ivan Drmic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24241	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Ministry representatives, colleagues and colleagues. This Law did not first come as a proposal to this House with some minor changes. He was first voted in '97. A year. This was meant six years ago and we can recapture here today what made the use of this law to solve the problems that the fact exists in ownership relations, ownership rights, land books in the Republic of Croatia. I don't think there's much that's been solved. Even in this explanation, we see that, of all the procedures so far, in these six years, a five hundred of them have been solved, that about 3,000 are in the process, that 15000 is in preparation, and yet a series of cases have not even come to the stage of preparation. Is something going to be resolved by this additional amendment, too, I doubt it. I believe most of you know what reading is. That's what he introduced to these places of ours today popular through that Suleiman great show. It's a property document, a property paper that was used hundreds of years ago to prove property rights. So when you're giving someone something or selling something, you're betraying them so-called. Readbu. It was kept at home and at any moment there was evidence of ownership. Today, there is a modern Croatian state and apparently someone under the pressure of the EU remembered that this could no longer be done with reading, so he introduced this one book of contracted contracts and this is one place where these readings from the times of Sulajman the Great. I think it was time after 500, 600 years to take at least one step further. There are certain land books published on the Internet that are unfortunately not complete because you can see who is listed as the owner on the Internet. There are also people who haven't lived since the '40s, people who've had nationalization, whose property has been taken away. There are people who are also registered after the war, but what you saw on the Internet is no guarantee that these people are the owners of certain properties because it is necessary to go and review the book of contracted contracts. So when you do all this, then you can be pretty sure you know who owns the property. So it is often seen in newspapers today that some people sell real estate more than other people, and it is found that even the one who sold it is not the real owner of real estate. And if he's the new owner, he becomes the first one to run to the catastra or garland and hand over his contract that he bought a certain property. And these others can seek their justice before Croatian courts and very often, they can even say in most cases that justice is never welcomed. What does this law solve? Nothing compared to the '97 law. except we'll extend the deadline for solving these problems to the next three years. I see that in one point the extended deadline, in the second point is as it says here are the increased powers of the building manager. That's the kind of authority the building manager has. If residents agree to talk to the building manager, hand over most of the residents' signatures in the building and then move into the process. With that signature and tenants, they guarantee that they will pay certain costs of whether the renovation is a facade, a stairway arrangement, or a building or a registration of a building in a land book. If they do not give these signatures, then most tenants disagree with the building manager simply do not have the authority to launch such a business because the question is who will pay the costs resulting from a certain procedure. What's provided for by this law certainly isn't cheap. It's necessary to pay for a geodetic in most of the buildings the state sold in '91, '92. In the land books, there are still some large particles on which there are even certain parts, perhaps even entire settlements of certain cities. So we need to isolate the particle on which the building is located, we need to get a building permit, a used permit, and put that building in the land books. It requires a very large amount of resources. The tenants and so far pay some money in the reserve monthly, but the money collected in this way is not nearly enough to fund one of these activities. So the question is, who's gonna pay for it? The state is very intelligent to say that in '91. and '92. And even after that, she sold apartments that were property-free. That's when this book of contracts was invented. Although it would make sense that the state first arranged those ownership books, that it enrolled certain buildings, and only then went to sell to the same people who had tenancy rights means to sell one regulated real estate with all the necessary documents. It was then done on the neck, on the nose, I don't know what reason it was in a hurry, obviously someone needed money or someone wanted to buy the apartment on favourable terms, and then very elegantly, all the costs and problems were transferred to new customers. That was 20 years ago, and we see that in the last 20 years this problem hasn't been solved at all. I personally don't believe he'll get rid of himself in the next three years. So in three years who lives, who lives, who dies, but I believe that one of these laws will probably come back with two or three points that change again to this House and we'll be looking for a re-translation for the next three years. Or maybe it'll be more real so it'll put at 6 years or 7 to extra and not so often burden the Parliament with this point on the agenda. My club will support this law, regardless of what I've put this kind of grudge on this bill, not because we think that law will solve the problems that are big and piled up, but because we're aware that something has to come from something to solve the problem. I still think that all of my objections, remarks, will be covered by the adoption of a regulation that is a sublegal act and that will follow after the adoption of this law in this House. Although I think the subject is such that everything that is unclear and what should be done to help solve this problem should be put into this law so that we can discuss it together and that the Croatian public hears what the state is intending to do to solve this problem. This is how a certain rule will be passed after the public, and I sincerely doubt that it will be sufficiently well solved to help solve this problem. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24242	Thank you, too. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first one was Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24243	Thank you very much. You have well noticed the problem arising from the application of this Property Act and other real rights. This problem will also be very current when those who wish to enroll their property over sold apartments that, with household law from the early 1990s, note that there are differences between contracts that were then made. According to the first house sales law, an apartment with belonging land was sold. After only two months of the period of validity of this law, the law was changed, and then an apartment could be purchased but without the land. Those who bought an apartment under the first law either for cash or for credit, as I did, have trouble enrolling in the book of contracted contracts because the law later changed. Although no one insisted that the money that was received because the loan war was higher, the loan war was higher by 1/3 due to the land belonging to that first law, so the loan war is bigger than those who bought only an apartment without the property. And they couldn't even buy land under that other law. So, what happens and there's plenty of them? There will be a confusion or a misunderstanding where some will be able to enter the book of contracted contracts, and some will not be able to enter the book. That's one problem I'd like to hear a solution to and how the ministry thinks about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24244	Thank you. We have a colleague Ivan Drmic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24245	My colleague Grubishic, I will only confirm that you have been on the trail of my debate. The fact is, and I said in my statement that the main cover of all problems was a decision in '91. and '92. years to sell apartments that were then in social after that on state property, without getting rid of those minimal things before that. These buildings weren't registered in land books, and the state didn't do anything to clean these land books out of trouble, and that one finished product would sell one apartment with a property list to people, but it sold them to say so cat in a bag and today these people are in big trouble. In the meantime, a rule was passed that credit could be raised, a mortgage on that apartment to sign on to off-book property, and it was done at the time because most people couldn't even buy that apartment if they couldn't raise a loan, and simply land books couldn't register a mortgage. So we have been partially solving problems all this time and today after 20 years we can understand that any activity that the state has led towards solving the problem has further complicated the situation and demoted people simply to solve this problem of land books.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24246	Thank you. Next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24247	Well, fellow Drmic, you know, a lot of people in this country wish they could buy that cat in a bag. If you were looking at statistical data then you will see according to the then data that only 10% of the population of the then Socialist Federal Republic of Croatia had a tenant right and whether they were able to buy out that rent right and get an apartment. And we should be eternally grateful to that country for giving them an apartment of about 10% of the value of the apartment market, not to say that apartments were purchased in villas by tens of thousands of German marks at that time. And you're saying she put it all on the back of those poor customers. You want me to tell you. Unfortunately, I'm in that part that didn't have a chance, although for a long time, I've been investing in the Housing Fund and me and my husband, etc. And with our own money, we bought an apartment. And she didn't want to take that state away from me in that contract, because she told me where we'd go to deal with it. So when a law was passed on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household law, then she said here we now order that books of contracts be opened even though in the legal rules of the former either. Then we who bought our apartment with our money paid a fee in court 300 kn and those who bought 10% market value of the apartment and they had a discount so they paid a discount and they paid 30 kn tax. And I was told when you had money, so I guess you have a fee to pay. So let's not, no matter what justice, there's absolutely no justice, and there's a line. There is no justice in buying out state housing because someone in a confiscated game of the case was someone in a nationalised someone could buy someone could not buy out someone got their hands on the property by the villa because in the local unit there was such an attitude someone would not come up with it. So there's absolutely no justice, but please don't say it's all on the back of those poor people because it's on my back, too. Although I bought my own apartment with my own money. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24248	Thank you. And we have a reply to the replica. Here's your colleague, Drmić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24249	My colleagues Lovrin and I were not involved in the purchase of the apartment either. My father made the house a long time ago, and he paid the same contribution to the apartment or what he called himself at that time as you did. I agree with you. I said it was obvious that this haste was because individuals wanted to buy out the fairies. They couldn't buy it, so give it to these little apartments of 50, 60 square meters that were built in the '50s and '60s so that he can get his object through it. As in the 1980s, when banks shared loans at the time of large inflation, the payment ended up being paid off by a large loan worth a few gums. Then the bank directors... in that system raised 500 grand, a million dinars at the time, or it was a few million, but they were giving workers 50 and 100 grand simply to make the state aware that these people couldn't repay those loans and not count for more interest. It was the same now, and apparently someone was in a hurry to buy his villa, so he couldn't wait for the state to take care of the land books. All over the world, it is normal for land books to lead the state to take care of it, and it is obliged to solve all problems or to bring these land books into order. If you put that on the back of citizens like I said, that solution will never happen. None of what I said is true, and I'm stressing again, and this law if it stays as it will not move things from a dead end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24250	Thank you. And the last replica of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24251	Drmic, a colleague, recorded the situation extremely well, and related to these certain social apartments, most of them shriveled in this House when certain villas were bought at that favourable price and raised their hands for the laws. So no matter what it was, I also don't have a social apartment or anyone in my family has, but the property of those apartments came from that joint work, many companies were working apartments... etc. And I absolutely don't mind selling these and then privileged apartments. Unfortunately, today many tenants living in these apartments, who want to settle property relations, who want to start these buildings, were brought there in '91, '92. the years when the law on the purchase of these social dwellings went, they were brought to the conclusion that they no longer have the privilege of war because they have neither the salaries nor the children can study, and in the end they can't pay for that internship. I have a case in the City of Đakov which supports the staging of these buildings and almost no more, there may be one 5% of those buildings where there is still a solution to the establishment of ownership, property relations, and this is a good example of how citizens did not have to pay through home councils and certain procedures that were tied up. The biggest problem is that neither the cadastre nor the grantovnica has yet to be harmonised, although the state has received the World Bank's loan for geodetic measurement. That money was spent 10 years ago, the geodetic dimension wasn't made and...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24252	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24253	The closing sentence, dear God, so six seconds doesn't mean anything in life, Mr. Vice President. And that's the problem with Ivantz because you haven't solved either the cadastre or the garland. And it's still that... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24254	Very well solved, thank you, colleague. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24255	From the time of Mary Teresa and there is a problem, so perhaps there is no investment of those announced, large...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24256	Finish your colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24257	Where we heard yesterday that the biggest problem is property law relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24258	Thank you. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24259	Here, from the presentation of my colleague Vinkovic, I have received confirmation, so to speak, that there are major problems in the field with this topic. I forgot to say two more important things in my presentation, now I'm going to tell my colleague Vinkovic. The question of the collection of the announced and prolonged real estate tax is also raised. How are we going to spend one of those taxes in Croatia when we don't have solved land books. Who will pay the tax, the one who was introduced as the owner of land books, who is in the books of accounts or the one who still holds some kind of contract or reading at home as at the time of Solomon. How, in which way, Minister Linic will determine who that man is to pay the real estate tax. And the other thing is probably the biggest problem with foreign investment. Imagine a stranger from Germany, England, America, Austria, from Qatar mentioned, to come here, to take a plot or buy an existing firm, and then we sell it to him, invite him to invest, and then explain to him that we're not in land books, but there's us in some book of accounts. Or we're not even in the account book, but here we have somewhere in the office contract where we bought it 20, 30 or 40 years ago. It is difficult for any stranger who comes here and wants to invest 10, 20, 30 or I don't know how many million euros, to convince him that it is enough to give him our reading so that he can invest his money with us in the Republic of Croatia. This is the same perhaps biggest problem in the future, which in foreign investment foreign investors want clean paper, property 1/1 and do not want to leave any change of chance of having any problem happening to them tomorrow after investing large amounts of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24260	Thank you. I'm now establishing a break. We'll continue at 3:00. Thank you. Next on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club Jozo Radoš. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This morning, I lost my shoe sole, not completely, and now I have a few options at my disposal. My shoes are in relatively good shape, they're 12 years old, they've grown to my heart. I can go to the carpenter and ask him if it makes sense to fix shoes or if I can reject those shoes with my own decision. It's my property. The point of this extraordinary introduction of mine is that I can freely dispose of my property, I have opportunities for that, and part of the owners of apartments where there was a household right do not fully have that possibility, and that is why this Law is important. In the light of the law, the legal circumstances, the legal consequences of the book of contracted contracts and the main books are the same. However, in a regulated system it is not good to keep two books for the same area. The book of contracts has been one improvisation, a substitute, and the refund has been going on for twenty years and the question is how long will it last. But it's actually not exactly the same legal position. For example, if you buy an apartment and if this apartment is older, then there is no entry in the land book you have to provide proof of the age of the apartment. That's what the bank wants if you want to borrow. So maybe the state and really arranged for them to be the same legal conditions, but it's obviously not the same here. You must ask for another confirmation. Therefore, this Law is an important law, and for that reason it is already for the sake of clarity of ownership, but of course also the possibility of dealing with this property because this situation absolutely complicates these relations, although there are probably the same legal opportunities somewhere, but you come to them the hard way. Therefore, it makes it difficult for you to have your possessions, and the apartment is as you know very important. I'll give you a few examples. I used to own an apartment on the beach some years ago. I bought an apartment with the ideal parts of the land around the apartment where there should be a parking lot. One of the owners, however, made a parking lot much bigger in front of my window than its ideal part of that space. And when I asked him, or I didn't ask him, I was just thinking, and others asked him, some even cut chains in that parking lot he said he bought that land from the owner, from the apartment sellers, but it didn't bother him to still sell the ideal part of the land that wasn't reduced to this part that he allegedly sold. It's a serious thing. There was a conflict amongst the tenants, hence the cutting of these chains, and all this would not have happened or would have been much more difficult if this institute had existed, so that this apartment with its special parts including land parcels was listed in the land books. The repercussions of this law are actually much bigger. It's not just a question of gardens that people are working on, so they're conflicting around them, terraces where they're at, and they're conflicting, chairs they put there, benches where they're sitting. It's a much more serious question of internships that would then allow for the easier and legalization that we're talking about these days. But let's say two very serious procedures in Croatia that go very slowly, and one reason, one of the difficulties of administrative nature is this situation that we are talking about. These are the introduction of individual waterometers for individual apartments and the introduction of a heat meter. It's two very big things, because our buildings don't have individual waterways. There's too much water consumption, because no one's responsible. Why should I be saving, if the other 20 thinks they won't do anything with their savings, then nobody's saving, so the girls are taping, and the girls are watering. So one resource is being spent that could be preserved, and the situation with heat metering is even harder. In our cities that heat up on these common heat and energy plants in the middle of the winter, open windows are open because they pay some kind of flat-rate price, they don't answer for consumption, they don't pay for consumption, and that's how a lot of energy is actually thrown into the air, and of course there are other consequences. It's not just a matter of savings, of budgets. It's a question of course and the environment, pollution and all that. These are all conjectures, very large conjectures that stand in the background of a non-resolvement of this issue. In the light of the law, it says that out of 18000 such cases, only about 5 hundred have been solved so far, and of course only so much has been solved because this is a bad regulation. So there's no sanctions, there's no stimulation for one who's bound to do something. If in some legal provision you have this situation that you have no sanctions and no stimulation, then you cannot expect this problem to be solved even if it is not true that the law says that there is no interest of the owner of the apartment because in such circumstances with the book of contracts they have all the same legal and real rights. That's not true that there's no interest. People would like to work it out, but first they have to get along with each other. I'm not sure how many tenants it takes to make sure it's prescribed. It happens in buildings that only one tenant for some reason contests entry into the procedure, and the procedure cannot be initiated. That should at least be regulated more precisely, so it doesn't make much sense. And this provision of the law we're about to pass is on that same trail. It also obliges building managers to do so, but there is no stimulation either, there is no sanctions, there is no precise data, precise implementation mechanisms as it is done and normally we will not achieve much of this law, and yet something more serious should be done compared to this. It is here that there is a previous procedure that is being initiated in front of the authorities of the administration, that is to say, various construction offices and cadastre offices, followed by a judicial procedure. Both procedures require great energy, a lot of documentation, vague implementing regulations and a lot of money. And under these circumstances, it's hard to expect such a thing to happen. Therefore, it should, of course, not be possible to resolve this in the short term, but it is possible to resolve some things in the short term, of course, that the authorities of the state and the judicial authorities who need to resolve these requirements do so in a better and faster way, but the price of legalisation and registration first of all, and then the enrollment is also large, high and it would be good for the state to make it easier for citizens to do so through contracts similar to those concluded with the EBRD. Perhaps this project, which is not a small project because it is actually part of a major project to take care of land and catastrian books, can possibly be included in some EU funds, so that citizens are not punished for being in such a situation, especially if only one of them in some cases, because it does not seem to me to be prescribed, dispute or deny their consent, this process cannot begin despite the fact that 29 or 35 actually want to enter into this process, including this long-term process, finding paper and paying the price of the whole process. It would be good, of course, to provide for some stimulation in the law for those who do, and then someone can be expected to go after that stimulation and do what the legislator clearly wants. And of course, it would be good if there were some sanctions, possibly so that the issue could also be resolved. We've been working on land books for 12 years, and as far as I can tell by the various inscriptions, we haven't gotten very far, especially, I can't say we're at the beginning, but these are, therefore, I don't think this is the only loan we've received from the EBRD to inform the grantonics, to sort out books it's a huge issue not only with legal certainty and the availability of citizens with its assets but of course and with some kind of economic activity. At the very least, the housing market will be simplified. It's probably going to go down a little bit with the situation in this area. So, it's serious stuff. We don't have a big choice now, of course, again. We should, of course, accept this law and extend this obligation, namely the debt of the building manager but without these mechanisms, first of all, the long-term acceleration of procedures and simplification of procedures before administrative and judicial authorities, and then the legal stimulation, i.e. sanctioning, that means a more precise, better arrangement of this business cannot be expected. I therefore call on the ministry to consider at least these short-term measures that are within its jurisdiction. So, to be more precise, a little more elaborated by this institute so that, over the expected period of 3 years, this issue could be largely resolved. With a solution like this that we're about to extend, I guess dynamics won't be God-knows-what. If there are 3 thousand in the process, and 15 thousand in preparation, perhaps after the next 3 years we will come to a few thousand, which is still far below what should be done because the ultimate goal is of course to sort out the situation in everything in this area in all such cases, and not only in half of them, which we are unlikely to achieve with such a weak solution by the end of the next 3-year period. So from all this, I can say that the HNS Representatives' Club will support this law, but we expect the ministry to consider alternative more precise norms to address this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24263	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24264	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. In the meantime, I'd like to introduce just one dipression to your presentation when you said that everyone had the opportunity to buy out social housing in the context of one of your sentences. So not everyone had the opportunity to buy out social housing, not having had the opportunity to buy out the apartments of those who were violently expelled from these apartments, those who, who had been abolished, or taken away from their right of residence, even by inadmissible judgments, and never until today, 2012. The years of their suffering have not come to pass. That's where I needed to say, so we can't talk about this serious subject in general. The proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Property Act and other real rights is, therefore, one no-technically very benign law, because there is only one member. We are obliged to extend the deadline in the next one, so we will extend the obligation of some management heads who have been paid to do one job, to update one state, so we are now giving them a new chance in the next three years that they have not done so in their obligation to pay for it. We had the fact that we had a book of contracted contracts as something that we said was the same in our legal power as the land books, which, of course, it's not, and it doesn't have to be, we have an obligation to connect, update the situation, the factual state of the books of the contract and the main land book, and so there's a deadline and obligations, and that's that. And so we could discuss the law and discuss it, but no, there are other issues opening up. So here we have much bigger problems, land-book conditions, the situation in those accompanying tools, the accompanying instruments that should make us useful and quality land-based books, because according to the principle of trust in land-based books, which is the fundamental principle of ownership facts entered in land books are considered final, and this is the basis of some in the university when they taught us, said two postulates, it is the first postulate principle of trust in the land-books and the second postulate is the acquisition of property by registration in land-books, and books of contract-based contracts and all other accompanying services are just part of a system called grantovnica, i.e. called land-books. The proposal to amend the Law on Property and other real rights extends, therefore, the time limit of the procedure for standing up, which was set by the end of 2012. For years, therefore, this deadline is extended for the next three years, it certainly reveals that no project has yet been completed to update and edit land books, and the project is implemented 10 years back with the loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where, according to some data, 617 million kunas have been spent on the job, and only 336 catastrian municipalities, i.e. only 5 and a half percent of the surface of the Republic of Croatia, have been arranged according to European standards. And that's it. It's our actual condition today. I also have some negative examples of what it's like on the ground in certain land books, and I don't think it's bad to hear it. Because as a consequence of the introduction of order into the cadaster and land books, the fact is that many landowners are in areas like Bania, Korduna and Like, the hinterland of Zadar, etc. have lost most of their agricultural areas and forests, because they are registered, and today they are still registered as ownership of the Republic of Croatia, and they were about 150, 200 years and owners and private owners. Locals of several villages consisting of the town of Nin, the municipality of Vrsi, i.e. the landowners of the Catastrian municipalities of Poljica, etc. were the owners of agricultural land and forests and without their knowledge and warnings were registered the right of ownership in favour of the Republic of Croatia today, still so. In the area of Karlovac, Vodana Draga were placed outside the power of the land book '95. years, so '95. they have been placed out of the power of the land book, and for almost 17 years it has been awaiting the establishment of new land books, so such a problem is the absence of land books in the area of the city of Ogulin 17 catastrian municipalities, so it is not one catastrian municipality, it is 17 catastrian municipalities, it is significant, it is significantly suspended or slowed down legal traffic of real estate, and it has been achieved in any case and slowed down and some economic interest of investments in these areas. It's not just a principle question, it's, it's a matter of some kind of legal certainty. The damages that are such an unsettled situation in garters, i.e. land books, have already been spoken by colleagues, but I must say that this is, above all, some kind of economic development, and we are talking about uniform regional development, investment, investment, some kind of European funds, all of this... clear and clear, crystal clear property. [[You don't understand.]] So we can't expect that a man who hasn't been enrolled today, hasn't been credited with his real estate that he'll be able to come into the bank, that he'll be able to raise some kind of farm, that he'll be able to lift up the land that isn't his, that the bank will give him a long-term investment in something that's not in the garter registered as his. These are basic things and I think that with these things we will find it difficult to make one competitive climate, one entrepreneurial climate, unfortunately that space, such a space that is in some way disabled because of this situation in grants is much bigger than we think in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there is damage, because there is also certain legal uncertainty in any case, which is a standard that does not exist in the European Union. So the EU is the basic principle of legal certainty, private ownership and, of course, the sense of some kind of injustice that occurs in people as to why this is happening to him and why exactly his particle couldn't register and why his property was not updated, etc., etc. The problem is of course tied to the situation in the catastro today. It is also an institution without which it cannot function properly and does not have the right quality of either the land book or the category of private ownership do not have full quality unless the catastre is functioning. You have a situation that therefore the facts of the catastra are used in land books and vice versa. You now have a situation to say that all the facilities that are private property so the houses don't go to economics... we're talking about houses that were built before '62 and have no footage are illegal objects. Given the circumstances, I went to the bank and for one facility I asked for a loan, you have to make a statement about legality. The fact is that in Baranja the composition was made in '68, so there are no aircraftmen and all the facilities built before '62 are illegal. It's an amazing thing. And now we're going to trace it further to the Central Bureau of the Geodetic Institute in Zagreb the answer is no, we don't have those recordings, some... even in the central services of the former state in Belgrade. And you don't have it here today, and we have the situation now that we can't work normally and we can't function and we can't borrow because we can't get a statement about the legality of objects that are 50 years old but are in operation, they're listed in the cadastre, they're neatly listed in the property list, but they're illegal to the bank. And to be legal, they point us to an authorized office for drawing a building desk, they tell you what the tariff is and they make fast projects and they give him a statement about the legality of the facility you've been living in for 50 years. These are some things that may be formal in nature may be formal, and so in life, however, it creates a big problem for people. and the question of whether the purpose of the laws that we bring to create problems or the purpose of the law is to facilitate people especially in these difficult situations, crisis situations where each kuna is extremely large, and not that we now have to spend money on a number of other administrative difficulties and peripetias, etc. So that's the situation we're in right now according to our assessment. Before joining the EU and in grantovnica, such a situation is unfortunately also the situation in services called the cadastre. And there's something we need to work on. To return briefly only at the end of the sentence, two on this bill proposal, so in this single provision is defined the obligation of the manager to agree, to coordinate the procedure and to harmonise the books of the contracted contracts with land books to give a three-year term, the elemental question arises why has this not been done so far? ...the thing my previous colleague said was whether it was defined and the responsibility or sanctions for those failures is that we lost dozens of years on this thing and we didn't sort it out. It is doubtful that during these three years we will be able to update some three more and plus 15,000 items that will attack our services in those three years. Therefore, it is all such a good desire to prolong, or to reduce any negative effects that should not have been achieved so far. Therefore, we are particularly against this law, so we will support that because it is simply a formal benign provision at the moment, but it is much more important that the whole system in which this is reflected all together to work in a better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24265	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit, Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, there were some things about the former Yugoslavia that were formed only in the 1950s, and before that there were only land books and then people couldn't be registered as owners of 150 or 200 years, but could possibly be enrolled in land books as owners. So that's one thing. Another thing about legalization of objects has been legalized since '68 and not since 1962, however, objects could be entered in both the cadastre and the grantovnica but a note has been written that no legal act has been attached, which is a confirmation of the main project or building permit or after we changed the laws applicable authorisation. What you were saying about all these problems that are currently happening to people is actually about the Law on Land Books and the Law on State Measurement and Land Cataster, and surely that something should be done, and the digitization of land books is actually not about copying from analogue to digital form. So it's just not and the owners can acquire property by file and then the RZ process is resolved by their ownership rights. And as for the very entries of objects and the resolution of this prolonging period for three years, I think it is good given all the problems that managers face for the reason that we have in the Republic of Croatia a series of new dimensions with which the buildings were recorded and carried out in a cadastre but new measurements are not translated into grants and that we have done so that the state has turned the RZ procedures for these cadastrian municipalities today would have a lot less costs as far as geodetic services than only then should we solve project documentation means architecture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24267	We have a response to Mile Horvat's replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24268	Thank you. My colleague, I don't mean to paralyze on pure legal grounds, etc., so property or property, I was talking about the fact that people owned the country until this war, a few hundred years before that, clearly in the garter it's visible, in land books, and they were peaceful owners then, as soon as they were owners, so no one disturbed them, or forced them out of there. Until now, until the state without reason entered them as the owner and today it is registered as the owner of these properties and that land. That's what I was gonna say. Now, about this legalization, the fact is that after I've been in Baranja, an airline has been made, and that's not the date it takes to get a legalization certificate. So we don't have a way in Baranja to get a confirmation of the legality of the facility because after that prescribed deadline, the recording was done. That's what I'm talking about. And that form, that formal lack confuses people. Is it possible that my house was built before that airline was built today is no longer legal? So why do we slave so much form? That's all I said. Of course, the three-year period to extend all this activity is acceptable to us, so we end up accepting these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24269	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ club Branko Bačić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24270	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will also support the addition of the Property Act and other real rights as proposed. Before I say a few words about other things that relate to the law itself, which are supposed to be a successful realization of this law, it might be a good thing that instead of defining the deadline of the next 3 years to determine the manager's obligation to do so because I am afraid, and knowing the experience so far, we will be in a similar situation again in 3 years, and then perhaps it was not necessary to limit that deadline, but to establish the obligation of the building manager to carry out the process of enrolling the building with all the buildings in the cadastre, i.e. in the land book, which is then the assumption of clearly enrolling the apartments that are grounded. Therefore, it seems to me that this provision is no longer necessary after the experience that we have in implementing the Law of Property and other real rights and that it is here somewhere on the trail of that provision that already exists in this law, in which this principle of trust in the land book has already been discussed practically every two years again, and precisely because of the disorderly situation in the cataster and the land book. So I was just about to say a few words. What is practically a brake, an obstacle to the implementation of this provision legally so that managers can access the enrolment of buildings that are controlled by the land book. In order for the Land Book Department to be able to implement the Regulation on the connection of books of contracted contracts with the Land Book to the assumption of the implementation of the procedure or to better say the effective implementation of the procedure was, that was also the case, it was an unsettled cadastre and an unsettled land book in Croatia. Here, in the light of the law itself, it says that so far some 500 land-book items have been resolved, requests for the connection of the main book and book of contracted contracts, that another 3,000 have been submitted, and that another 15,000 such requests are being prepared. It seems to me only a small part of the buildings that should be carried out through the land book. And that result will not change more significantly in the next 3 years if it is not realised, it does not approach the systematic geodetic state measurement for the purpose of building a cataster of real estate and land books. It will not be, and we are witnessing that we are not in the section relating to the book of buildings that are established but that the unsettled cadastre and the unsettled land book is an obstacle to any realisation, the rapid realization of investments in the Republic of Croatia. I was talking about it the other night, a few days ago when we were discussing the investment law where I also said certain data that I would now and again, which really make it impossible for any solution and no matter how hard the government is trying and announcing that it would pass a new Investment Act in which it would define strategic projects that would go along with some shortened accelerated variant. I'm absolutely sure he won't be able to get the results as much as shorten the procedure for issuing building acts because the assumption of publishing... is building evidence of property rights. Therefore, it is something that simply hinders any development of the Republic of Croatia. I, too, must admit the wonders, and I also said during the adoption, the debate on the state budget that the government at the position of the State Geodetic Administration has reduced significant resources for the state's measurement, the production of real estate and land books. I'll just tell you a few examples and data what that means, which means a new state measure and what that means is a new land book. But what we have heard so far in the debate is that almost the entire space of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the records of catastra and land books made in the 1970s before the collapse of Austria-Hungarian. So somewhere there in the first half of the 19th century, all there by the end of the 19th century, and that catastre and this land book was mostly not updated, mostly not arranged, is mostly in the coastal part of a vast number of owners on small plots that have long died, etc. etc. So it certainly prevents the realization of any investment, so I'm saying this part that applies here. Systemically, it began to approach state measurements at the end of the 1990s, so the 20th century, and then a programme of state measurements was established. But then, to this day and this was only 9% of the territory of the state, i.e. some 350 cadastrian municipalities of 3350 of them in Croatia have launched the procedure of new state measurements for the purpose of building a catalogue of real estate and land books. Of these 350, about 30% of them have completed a new state measure and a real estate cadastre, and for example, these units of local self-government, I'll give you some later information. The second third is in the exhibition, there is a process of exposition where the exact data of the national measurements are determined, and the third third of these three hundred units of local self-government, i.e. the cadastrian municipalities are somewhere in the diameter and the works are being carried out on their example. In order to show what this means, the correct, or quality cadastral measurement, i.e. the renewal of the land book on these 100 units of local self-government in Croatia, has been established that, as a general rule, the number of cadastral particles after this measurement is halved, meaning that the surface of existing cadastral particles is doubled. The registration of property traffic registered in land books is tripled, and the number of property-legal disputes in the catastrian municipality falls to less than one percentage of the number of disputes before the cadastrian measurement. And finally, the communal fee that is collected in the area of the catastrian community for which a new geodetic and state scale, the geodetic measurement, the new land book we have the example of even climbing. So much for the importance of a new state measure. Another example, every registered family house in the financial flows of Croatia brings in a new capital of at least 50,000 euros, the average value of the mortgage on such facilities. On average, 1,000 new registered facilities in these units, catastrian municipalities in one urban catastrian municipality, increase the settlement's financial power by an average of 50m euros. So here's the information, and I gave it to indicate how important it is for the state to systematically approach the state's measurement and then form a new land book, and then this provision that we're talking about and that we support as a club and that it needs to be determined as a commitment to all the managers is simply becoming extraordinary because it's almost in itself being implemented. I mentioned earlier that in this national budget for 2013 we cut the funds to the State Geodetic Authority by 8%. But when we talk about reducing resources to work that would allow this new state measure and real estate catastrophe, I'll tell you, for example, that the construction of a catastra in the Neretva Valley, which was designed to be reduced by 32%. The arrangement of a property cadastre on islands where the situation is catastrophically reduced by 50%. The national programme for the establishment of a land particle identification system by 53% has been reduced. Maintaining land cadastres and setting up a real estate catastra by 28%, keeping and maintaining a common information system of the land book of the catastra by 21%. And when we add this to the fact that the old 2011 law on the treatment of illegally built buildings was to provide that the fees from the retention of the illegally built building in the space of one-third of the total fees were to be determined by the purpose and that the funds should be available to the State Geodetic Authority, which would then be from such funds collected and were not small in the accelerated procedure of state cadastral measurements and land books, because one of the great reasons why in the Republic of Croatia over 300 or 400000 illegally built buildings is the same fact, the same reason lies, therefore in this unsettled cataster and land book. Therefore, Your Honor, ma'am, we at the club will support the adoption of this law because it's clear, it's only possible. But neither will an extension of three years in itself be an important solution, nor will any project, a systematic project planned by this or any other government be able to speed up itself by shortening the procedure for the adoption of any spatial-planned documentation, any building acts or any other act, location permit, confirmation of the main project or building permit. Therefore, this is not directly directed to you, but this is also what we started last year, which was, which was, in the state budget, a set of means of compensation for dealing with illegally built buildings where an extremely large amount of funds would have been received and what resources could then be allowed to start with a systematic example in the most interesting areas in the Republic of Croatia and then to build a land book. But here is another occasion, and we at the club will support this proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Property and other real rights, although I think this restriction from the next three years alone means nothing, because in three years we'll be in the same position. So perhaps the government could then establish the obligation of the building manager to initiate the procedure for enrolling the building in the cadastre and the land book and to make it its permanent obligation not to limit the date of December 29, 2015, but to make it a permanent obligation until one building was entered into the cadastre and the land book, which carried out the procedure for the internship and for which the manager was established. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24271	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24272	Here's a distinguished colleague of Bačić you mentioned the geodetic measurement and the condition above all the gruntovnica and catastra inconsistencies. Indeed, it is one of the biggest problems of the Republic of Croatia that is not precisely the existence of geodetic measurements because many measurements date back to the time of Mary Teresa. I remind you that the Republic of Croatia has also raised the World Bank's loan which was linked to the precisely geodetic measurement that many cities and municipalities, therefore local self-government units, have participated in the geodetic measurement process in this new time of this so-called time. decentralisations since they are not small money, it is therefore about contracts worth several dozen million kunas all depends on the area of measurement that even the former government has reduced the size of that measurement by going only to the agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia on what I am at the time, and now as mayor I did not agree because if it is a state agricultural land, then the state should measure it on the basis of its ownership. But I'm saying that the ratio was about 40% of the State Geodetic Authority, and 30% of the cities, 30% of the county that many local self-government units are now in a situation that I simply can't isolate from my budget because they've dropped those funds. So yesterday I was talking about that public-private partnership and the issuing of money from the state budget, if this was the success of the public-private partnership project, then I don't see that the state budget is given to Koprivnica and Varazdin, but it is a public-private partnership that was promoted not only in the Parliament but also in the public budgets, as well as in the local budgets and in the county. So the truth came out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24273	Thanks, buddy. We've got a reply to my colleague Vinkovic's replica, 25 seconds. We have a colleague Branko Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24274	That's right, my colleague Vinkovic. When we analyzed the effects of the Construction Conditions Act to encourage investment, which allowed building acts to be issued, that is, the decision on the terms of construction within 45 days, we realized that it was really possible to do this for 99% of the requirements if property-legal relations were resolved, that is, if the cadastre and land book with the situation on the ground. And we're aware of that, so the assumption of any investment is realisation, making state measures. You said earlier that the Republic of Croatia signed two contracts with the World Bank that the contracts went towards speeding up the procedure for making state measurements, that those funds were intended and they were much higher. I think it was both of them within 30m euros, so somewhere around 60m euros, largely spent on the realisation of these projects. But those funds aren't enough. These are really expensive jobs until the opening of a new land book, and I'm surprised by that, I've already said that many times in this House, I'm surprised why we missed the opportunity when the process of realising 300 if there are thousands of illegally built buildings in Croatia. And when we could through their law-making part of the funds in one-third secure, and these are not small funds, we calculated that somewhere there would be about 3 billion kunas if all the facilities that were illegally built according to ministry data were legalized to make a large part of Croatia, if not large then certainly the one necessary for investment for infrastructure, for road corridors etc., etc. So we missed that opportunity to deal with this problem safely.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24275	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law of Property and other real rights with the final proposal of the law. The amendment proposed is very small, it is important, and it is very practical in nature and it is about giving obligations to building managers to initiate the internship procedures within three years and this is what our president, Mr. Jozo Radoš, spoke of on behalf of the HNS Club. The law on ownership and other real rights is a large and very complex law that treats property and numerous relations arising from ownership with a special emphasis on real estate. But it seems to me that it is a good time to talk about ownership and as an inexorable, random human right that is also a guarantee of civil freedom. The right of ownership is a human right without recognition of property many other rights cannot be exercised. By legal definition, ownership is in objective terms all that belongs to someone's belonging to all his belongings and rights, and in a subjective sense the power to do according to its will with the object of ownership and the benefits it brings, with the exclusion of each other from it. The fundamental characteristics of ownership are the belonging and freedom of the owner's autonomous authority to deal with his own affairs. This freedom must not be understood in absolute terms but is limited by the existence of other subjects in the human community, the exercise of ownership rights only makes sense if it does not offend third parties' rights, for example. Neighbourhood rights, nor exceed the limits prescribed for the benefit of the general good. The classic powers in the content of ownership rights are ownership, use, use and availability, property rights are unique, exclusive, uniformity, elasticity and disspatibility, but in the definition of ownership with respect to human rights and civil freedom property is part without which personal freedom is simply not possible and, as is already said, freedom of ownership is equivalent to the availability of personal freedoms, and it is unlimited until entering the space of other people's freedoms. Without freedom, no human other value can be realized, every human being needs freedom to develop its talents and to develop himself completely, without the freedom of human spirit land, culture and science are being abandoned, the economy is not progressing, our mind needs freedom as our body needs air to breathe. Each human being, an individual with its own, or individual with its own personal unique ideas, desires and needs, is at the same time a social being depending on the other individuals, individuals and certain obligations against them, the rights and freedoms of individuals, or individuals, must not endanger the rights and freedoms of another individual and individual, freedom and responsibility are indivisible, together determine relations between individual and community. Individual rights are necessary if an individual or individual wants to freely dispose of his personal life, therefore freedom of opinion and expression is not only a strong moral requirement for tolerance and rule of law, it is also a path towards the development of the human mind, a path based on competition with free ideas and competition with knowledge. And this property, as a human right, identifies an individual, or individual, as a free person who freely disposes of his or her property, without jeopardizing other or other individuals independently of the state and in accordance with the law. And that is why it seems to me that today, in times of general and particularly economic crisis in Croatia, it is important to talk about the importance and inviolability of ownership. The protection of ownership is one of the messages that must be sent unequivocally to all citizens, or citizens, and should certainly be addressed to potential investors and potential buyers of various properties and movables. It is necessary to edit the ownership books and it is necessary to make an orderly record of the state of ownership in Croatia, it is important to do and update the catalog of property land and property of state property, there are special and complicated forms of ownership, co-ownership, joint, joint, cooperative and state property, all in various combinations. Any property must be transparent and clearly defined and written in public government books as finally, neatly introduced and clear ownership... The combination is a prerequisite for a regulated country, economy and society. [[You don't understand.]] It must not be secret, there must be no secret and there must be no doubt in the legality of ownership. Unfortunately, in the last 20 years, Croatia has not done enough to settle and catalogue ownership, many of the suspicious and non-transparent properties that cause uncertainty, stop development, and often result in tragic consequences of the destruction of companies, the destruction of families, and various other negativeities in society. Disputes about proof of ownership are particularly long, complicated and unfortunately unexpected for many of our older citizens. This turns Croatia into an unfair state, and I am therefore of the view that in the coming years we must all make every effort together to place the issue of ownership in the Republic of Croatia entirely on modern, correct, founded on law and justice, transparent, unequivocal foundations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24277	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24278	Thank you very much. Well, just what you just said, just all together, maybe we can come up with a land-book situation, because all that heritage we have and all that is from nationalization, confiscation, comassation, denationalisation, the conversion of social property into private, the establishment of marine goods, forests and forest land and all the other institutes that we have survived and that we survive in this problem that our land-book situation is not arranged for us. I'd like to apostrophe another fact here, precisely because you said that we all had to work it out together, something that until yesterday or until recently wasn't so important to us, so private property becomes extremely important and important and gets its weight, and the circumstances that could have happened that someone for 40 years thought they had real estate and only then saw that it wasn't there, that's the problem that we all really need to deal with. The situation in Dalmatia, of course, is a state which we are extremely well aware of, but that ratio of neglect of obligations or perhaps avoidance of payment of real estate tax etc. What we once witnessed, this is a problem that will one day come to the agenda, came probably today when ownership opens up new opportunities for either investment or for acquiring some other rights etc. And we're interested in handling it. There's no point in telling who did what, and who did it, and who didn't, we're here where we are, we have the support of the World Bank, a project to integrate the catastrian and land-book systems, it's being intensely requested by us to review all the circumstances and all the facts we've talked about. The use of funds from the procedure with illegally built buildings is not part of the judiciary but I suppose and conclude that it will be part of the processing and activities of the Ministry of Construction as well as the incentive to return to this law, the incentive for managers to and otherwise to the persons who need to arrange their state of affairs to do so. What is in the jurisdiction of our ministry is the law on land books, so I now announce that this law, or amendments to that law, will be put on the agenda, and all because we are aware that this problem is the one that requires great attention and activity on what it is started on because these are the problems that exceed some simple day policy rather than very complex and concern every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24279	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have two replicas of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24280	So we've been talking about geodetic measurements all along. I would like to point out, regardless of the new loans and World Bank programmes, possible assistance from EU funds, I claim that most units of local self-government and regional self-government are no longer available under those contracts that have so far been considered by the state or the State Geodetic Authority, 30% local and 30% regional self-government that simply this process cannot be implemented, unless the state itself implements and implements it on state land alone. On the other hand, we also have examples of where the country and even in the last twenty years, and even during that dark socialism, the schools, hospitals, halls that have not been conducted in land books and are listed as such in the garter and cadastre, and the owner is probably from the age of the well-known and popular Mary Teresa or Francis Joseph. So just as the head of a local self-government, I want to point out that units of local self-government based on that so-called Linic. decentralisation will not be able to carry out the entire geodetic measurement procedure. And it's a fact and a real state. That may also be confirmed by the Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24281	Thank you. And the next replica, Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24282	Madam Deputy, you mentioned a project to take care of the catastra and the land book, which is partly financed by the World Bank loan. And that's good, and we should do everything we can to integrate and synchronise data between land books and catastras. This is the second step, namely, this project will help us in a way that is faster to get to bad information. That's not good. So by realising this project we are now going to perfect this relationship between the cataster and the land book and it will only allow the user to find out the bad information faster and nothing else. So the foundation of what I was talking about and what is said in this debate is that we should start from the beginning, so first to establish good information, have accurate updated information, and only then is it good to get to it quickly. Because having bad information in five minutes won't allow us to come up with any kind of building act or any other confirmation or procedure that we're conducting in front of state authorities. So it all started when it comes to this law and all the other laws are when we're talking about ownership of the construction of the land book, it's supposed to be any successful business in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24283	Thank you. This is what we're done with the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24284	Final draft law supplementing the Property Act and other real rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 215. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I ask the Honorable Government representative, Sandra Artuković Kunst, to show us about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24285	Thank you very much. In relation to the amendment to the Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on ownership and other real rights of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, the Government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24286	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 113 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the Completion of the Property Act and other real rights in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24287	And we move on to - Final draft law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZ No. 212 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer, please choose the Deputy Minister intro.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24288	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. Here's another amendment to one article, but I'm guessing it won't cause as much discussion as it did with the previous law. In fact, we are changing the proposal to amend the Law on the Payments of Judges not all Judges, but only those who have nominally had the right to supplement the salary and did not even realize it. We are again prolonging the possibility that judges who are assigned to the position of vice president or deputy head of a long judicial body of the President of the Court or judges who carry out the duties of the head of the department or the head of the department shall not receive the addition that they should receive. Of course, because the state of the budget is so that it does not allow this supplement to be paid. And here we prejudged the state of affairs for 2013 and 2014 respectively, given the state in which our economy and GDP are in, etc. We conclude that in the next two years no funds will be obtained so that this supplement can be paid. I have a need to point out that judges don't get any salary supplements, so then here's neither of these for the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24289	Thank you, too. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For this debate, I also took along the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, with projections for 2014 and 2015 because in this proposal, and now, in fact, the adopted budget of this year's agenda. It is therefore a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials with the final proposal of the law. In this regard, I must say that both judges, judicial officials, as it is called here belong to the group or group of the middle class of Croatian society, together with teachers, teachers, nurses, doctors, all those who, in fact, have become the Croatian state independent, free and independent, are slowly getting paid more and less, and thus I would say that layer. to say middle class and I'd say intelligence, their voice is getting quieter and quieter and it's actually that salary and that pay grade that they have in a few seemed to be so, that it's slowly disappearing and it's getting quieter. And here, on page 350 and, therefore, the Ministry of Justice's total reduction from the 2012 budget is, therefore, 125 million kuna. Someone said it seems to me that Mrs. Lovrin can actually function in the judiciary law and that she should be with these limitations and reductions. So the total reduction is 125 million kuna, and it is manifested through the subjects of the judges, and then the items of the reduction of funds for the Judicial Academy and then the so-called. training training and receiving trainees in courts, therefore, is evident in a drastic reduction of funds for such needs. If the Croatian State and the Croatian judiciary looked at the items paid by the Croatian State for the loss of disputes before the international court, then when they pay obligations and costs for violations of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, that is another category. And if you look at the costs of running litigation procedures in so-called. dislocated cases when e.g. Due to the overcrowding of the court in Slavonski Brod, you get the solution that the court is being led to the Palace of Justice in Zagreb or because of the overcrowding of the Municipal Court of Slavonski Brod to sue, so the parties in the proceedings with their lawyers must travel to Đakovo, for example, to Mr Vinkovic's town. Then it is clear that each of them collects travel expenses, journals, and everything else that belongs to them under the law. And then if we were to sum up all these costs of a dislocated trial, the costs arising from the lawsuit for the right to trial within a reasonable period, and there are many of them, and because of the loss of disputes before the International Court, then that sum would be as much as the reduction of the item in the state budget and the difference between 2012 and 2013, about 120 million kuna. I received this information by asking the Minister of Justice, though in the former, during the term of office of the former government, and getting exactly the explanation that it costs the Republic of Croatia so much. Now, that's not what it is, just as far as the Justice Department is concerned, so the savings should not be reduced to 120 million kuna Justice Department. The salaries of judges, and here it writes nicely to be done and are listed in Article 5, which is to which all of this applies, so first and foremost to the Vice President, and that Article 5 states and how much of this supplement was paid. So he says the deputy president of the Supreme Court of Croatia had a 4% supplement on his salary. Furthermore, up to 10 judicial officials are in the judicial authorities and departments, the leader had 1% on his salary. When it increases that body from 11% to 22% on salary, etc. That I do not know whether it implies being here, it will tell me the deputy minister to the president of county, commercial, municipal and criminal courts, county and municipal state attorneys whether they also belong in order to say or subject to this legislation. Oh, no? I mean, they're numbered here, so that's why I'm asking. On page four of this bill, and they're numbered, so I'm asking if they're going into this legal measure, so they don't have the right to an allowance. You say no, and you see here it says nice, which you say are not subject to this law, are those who have a 15% supplement on their salary. For example, the head of a judicial body that has over a hundred officials has a 15% salary allowance. And it does not fall under that, as does the Office of the Prime Minister, so the prime minister for whom in that Office of the Prime Minister we have the information from this budget that I have led to we have an increase in expenditure, a planned increase in expenditure. Therefore, the Prime Minister and his office did not behave fairly and correctly, and in connection with the austerity measures, so he is reducing himself to doctors, sisters, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, but the Office of the Prime Minister has an increase of 24%, continuously with the 2014 and 2015 projections. Is that hypocritical? Is it hypocritical to talk about saving and about the state of Croatia that someone said, I think the prime minister at the edge of the emergency, while also prescribing his office in the state budget to increase the funds by 24%. So is it correct for both the judiciary and these officials, even though they didn't receive it, it was just nominal. So if it was nominal and prescribed to receive eventually these money will have to be paid off to these people, the backlogs. Or it's backwards, and that's how it's realized, so there's a realisation going on to erase, not dotted as our people would say. That's why it's hard, so when we're aware of the situation we're in, and when we take into account everything I've said into consideration, it's hard to be, to determine whether we're for or against as a club, to determine whether we're for or against as a club. So here, best in this situation and in this situation, when we put all these arguments on the table, then we think the HDSSB club will be restrained. And there's something else I wanted to add. We know what judges' salaries are in the Republic of Croatia, but at the same time we know how much there are and how many salaries there are, how many of them are the managers of state-owned companies, in public companies. And tell me if you know Madam of the Ministry of Justice how many Croatian railways have so-called employees, managers who receive more than 25,000 salaries. Maybe Kalmeta would know? But no judge receives 25,000 kunas. And how does the Croatian Railway stand in total? How many losses are there? And what do these managers do, what do they get paid for? Croatian highways how many managers are there? How many of those who receive more than 20,000 kunas pay. If I didn't pick up the HEP, now they're raising electricity, the price of electricity on the agency's behalf, and now the government is no longer responsible, now the agency is responsible. HERA is responsible. The government is not responsible. HERA is an independent body, so they say. So it's really hard, even though we are for austerity measures. It's hard to explain, so it's like this. Then he should be consistent and cut everybody's throat out. And to us here, as Mr. Olan in France has decreed, all of us cut 30% of our salary linearly. All employees of state, local, regional units of local self-government, completely in France. It's a socialist measure. And is this government socialist? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24291	Thank you, too. We have two replicas reported. Stjepan Milinkovic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, so I think you've clearly explained all the items and there's really nothing to add to that. We understand everything. But you asked one question about how a system so important, the foundation of society can function after so many drastic reductions. And we see that the EU's eyes are against the judiciary to say so, but of course all those who have been waiting for years and years for the solution of their cases to solve both property and other problems. But I want to set one comparison, connect one parallel. This is where you listed the significantly smaller funds. I want to pull the parallel so that even one area called the strategic branch in our society can function, which is agriculture. True, in these two years, now about 40% of this year 2012, so that's very clear with this new budget, I know it's a mockery, and agriculture has to be respected because it's a foster mother. And in these circumstances, when she experienced such a drastic cutting up to 40% of me is the question of how can that strategic branch work in the first place. And it is known that people once held a cow so that it could feed the family, and today our cows end up thanks to this policy at forced slaughter. How in these circumstances such a significant area can therefore function in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24293	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24294	Thank you very much. Mr. Milinkovic, I expected you to mix the judiciary and agriculture, but I would give you some other arguments that I haven't been able to tell you in my debate about the club. Namely, look at the point of violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. This year 2012, 27 million kuna was spent or spent, for the next year 22 million kuna. Furthermore, the editing and fitting of the Prosecution Office, and now we're talking about probation and how it's going to be a very common procedure is this year 500 grand, 300 grand a year. The judicial academy that we're not talking about is a catastrophic reduction of 30% compared to this year. So that's what this is about, and we swear, and we want this third pillar of government in the Republic of Croatia, so executive, representative or representative, executive, legislative, to be arranged under Chapter 23 and all other chapters. Obviously, I'm afraid it won't work that way, right? Because as much money as music, it's an old story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24295	Thank you. And the next replica of the Lord Calmeta. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24296	Thank you. I don't know how many managers there are today who have a salary that you've been talking about bigger than that because in the end it's not my job either, but I'll just remind you that in 2008, then the government made a decision that no manager in public enterprises can have a salary greater than 18 thousand kuna net. So that remark of yours and what you mentioned to me doesn't stand because if that was the government's decision, then no one could have paid more than that. There have been cases like this before.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24297	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24298	Mr. Kalmeta, I think it's best to ask Mr. Miat Stanic how many there are. He knows very well as the president of the Cestar Union in the Croatian highways. Well, if you want, we'll get as much information as we can by e-mail, and what you're saying is 18 grand, that's so-called. She's basically paying. But you know that this, you know, that goes far beyond that. And as for the railroad, so first it's divided into 4 to say what they used to be... from trains, cargs, etc., to create just such an excess of those so-called. The manager who, despite the great losses of the Croatian Railways, must have over 25 thousand kuna in the total income, and there are dozens of them. I'll give you names if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24299	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24300	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputy ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I was in a dilemma about whether or not to report for a discussion on the addition of this law, but I was offered some previous discussions, and among other things I found it appropriate to say something about this law. We, in previous laws here after the speaker, said that we must have a more efficient judiciary, that we must have better, that the judiciary must do its part and the obligations we have made regarding Chapter 23, that we must adopt good laws that can and can be justly tried, that we must comply with these laws with EU laws and ultimately come to the people who need to do so. It's clearly what judges are supposed to do in court. I didn't expect that the practice would show us that in these years nothing was more favourable when it came to the matter or the employees, and here we could hear when the teachers were reduced to certain rights even though they were willing to give up those rights for two years so when the money came back to them. We've reduced certain rights when it comes to police and we've expanded it with amendments to the law to make it go away and we're clearly prolonging the same thing to two years of certain rights and fees. This Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials was passed 13 years or more specifically in 1999. He is very small, he has only 12 articles, he is clear and he regulates the question of the salaries of judges, the president of courts and state lawyers. The legislator says that no funds in the state budget have been provided in this case and clearly, since they are not in the budget we adopted in 2013 but we already know that there will be no funds in 2014 and we are reducing these funds. Today we heard that for the Ministry of Justice, and we know by budget it was reduced by 125 million kuna. And now that we're talking about law enforcement, they need to make fair judgments, they need to be effective, then we have to talk about their salaries, and somewhere a thousand 260 judges in municipal and criminal courts have a salary of 9 to 10 thousand kuna, presidents in these same courts have a salary of 11 to 12 thousand kuna, judges of county courts have a salary of 13 to 14 thousand kuna, and presidents of county courts 15 thousand kuna, while in Zagreb as a major court have about 16 thousand kuna. The Supreme Court judges have about 19,000 kuna, and the president has over 21 thousand kuna. Article 5 of the Law stipulates the right to add to the deputies and the presidents of the heads and departments, and within that, the deputies are intended to add 1% to 4%, depending on the bodies and the number of officials from 3% to 15%, and this article we practically put out of force, first by law we provide certain rights, then we bring an addition to the law where these same rights in such a small law of 12 articles where we deny these rights. And in those 13 years of application of this law, he has suffered 14 changes. According to certain regulations, etc. When I looked at all the published changes in the National Journal, it was still more about regulations, it was about the 21st amendment of such a small law. And now that we take the question of the provision of Article 5 that has been passed in the law, every year that provision of Article 5 we make the addition of the law or the Government regulates it by a regulation, and then after that Parliament confirms it again by supplementing, we have one paradoxical situation that we have given the law a certain right, but that right can never be realised. I am now asking a question based on such a question of wasting time every time the law is passed, publishing in the National Journal, amending or supplementing the law, whether it goes in favour of what we have talked about today, which is the question of the efficiency of the judiciary, the adoption of clear laws, the precise laws that should be applied, and especially when we talk about those who need to enforce these laws and these laws, that we bring into such an absurdity when it comes to the rights of judges. These additions that have been happening since 2004, they have been unable to apply in the law itself, and I am, in some way, asking myself a question to us here too, whether it was more effective then to bring a whole new law on the rights of judges, something that would be clear, something that would be applicable, and something that in some way would be in line with what we are declaring and in a way that we are talking about adapting to European laws and harmonising our laws with European laws, because I don't think that in any European law we could possibly find a law with 14 articles, and that there are so many additions and changes, it can only be with us here in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24301	Thank you, too. We have a single replica of Nikola Vuljanic reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24302	In fact, this law postpones the application of certain financial rights that would replace the President of courts, department heads, etc. You should get it. That's what it says in the regulation that this House brought in that they're going to get it, but there's no money, so we're putting it off until the time it's going to be. Okay. I believe the judges will agree. What I don't understand, and that's not the question of Madam Deputy Minister, because she can't answer that, is that this government is being completely unconsistent. So in one situation when it comes to judges, then 10, 15 years delaying that payment and telling people it'll be good when there's money, and when it comes to teachers, then the idea of making a promise to the future, because it says forgive me, but we can't be so irresponsible that we promise you something that comes out of our mandate. This passes the mandates of four Governments, all of them delay it because all the judges are afraid, and they don't dare break that law that never really came into force, and the teacher is obviously not afraid so we can easily write them off.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24303	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Tušek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24304	Thank you, Vice President. Well, that's the part of the truth that we're talking about, we're probably afraid the judges might raise their voices if it's about a certain change of law that should be enforceable and that should be clear. And the truth is that it's practically absurd to have something in the law that can't be applied for years and years, and then it just questions why it's even in the law and whether it's even necessary to be in law. And when it comes to pay and pay cuts, that's what I totally agree with you. Since the beginning of the arrival of this Kukurik coalition to power, no positive shift has occurred when it comes to salaries and receipts of workers, officials, etc. And I don't think it's good either way when it comes to citizens who are on the other hand being burdened with price hikes and all the other givings and great unemployment that is present but here's our reality about being citizens, clearly, saying their final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24305	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24306	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, this is an unusual law, I understand, and the Ministry of Justice and Madam Deputy Minister, this is what this was about, as has been said here during the terms of office already 4 or 5 of the government since 1999 when it first passed the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. In 20 amendments, which are regulated by the law because we know that always at the end of the year, at the last moment when it was seen that it should be applied without the means being secured in the state budget, then by the regulation, this application was delayed, after which it was confirmed by law, and here we are already in the 20th amendment, and we can really wonder what it stands in the law at all when every year, sometimes skipping year because we have cases as we now have to predict that neither in 2013 nor in 2014 will there be funds. This is what happens when laws are proposed and laws are passed for which no means are provided and provided. But this isn't even about large funds, so maybe a little historical. When the law was passed, it was also laid down and it is now in the law that judges receive a salary allowance as well as all other employees for each year of work, however, and that supplement has not been paid for several years since the suspension and application of Article 7 which seems to be no longer delayed and applied since 2007. It should be noted here, however, and it should be noted that judges do not have any income supplements, so that when the salaries of judges and state officials are read here and there are no supplements for judicial officials in terms of regression, Christmases, transportation, transport costs, etc. That's not what judges get. So it's about this salary that's been mentioned here, so it's a clean salary. But I really don't understand why this law doesn't change, I'm asking now because we hear from the ministry that something in the court's organisation is going to change, so the court's managers are going to be introduced to free the President of the Court of Justice of these logistics affairs as supplies of these material resources for the work of the court and so that it can be devoted to better organisation and supervision of clean court cases. Why in this sense is it not going to change this law and then it will solve the issue of the manager in courts, etc. As far as this delay is concerned, of course, I don't want to attack anyone here right now and exculpate others because it really has been happening since '99, and it's really time to pass a law that doesn't have those provisions, and especially because you're being careful here, it's only about a salary allowance, which, to the deputy president of the courts, or to the long deputies of the State's Attorney General, is about the vice president of the court or the judge who does the duties of the department president or head of the department. So it's not about all the judges, it's only about one part of the judicial structure that probably wouldn't put too much pressure on that budget. Someone here said the state is afraid of judges. I don't think he's afraid of them. I'd say this is humiliating for the judges. It's humiliating for judges to be standing since '99 that they have the right to delay that this right will be given to them here and now by 2014. It's better if that's not in the law. And here I really hope that in some complete change and about this Law on Courts, this issue will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24307	Thank you. We have two reported replicas. The first one was Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24308	Thank you very much. Comrade Lovrin, you have called this law an unusual law. It reminds me of that song by Grigor Knight "In the tenth village lives Antuntun in it is a bit of an unusual mind". So when it's such an unusual law and that mind has designed it so that the right to supplement the salary is simply abolished. It's this supplement of the deputy, we're not going to list what because I don't have time and it's between 1 and 4% right. At the same time, I received confirmation that there was no reduction in the salary of the presidents again, so county, municipal, misdemeanor, etc. Courts that range from 3% to 15%. So could there have been any redistribution and some solidarity, from some solidarity to all judges, to deputies, the president to the deputies? Secondly, it is true that judicial officials, as well as state officials, only have so-called so-called officials. naked pay. No shoes, no transportation, no Christmas Day, no regression, no nothing. So it's true and it's not unusual that it's actually this so-called. It's been delayed since '99. The years as you say, that's why it's called delayed would be called the right, in fact humiliating for our judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24309	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24310	Thank you very much. Well, the surprise of Antuntun could be more of the things we're discussing here in the Parliament, but let's get back to this. So personally, I would not touch the president's salary mainly because we hear the announcement that they will be additionally responsible for the trial within a reasonable period, etc., so they will get some new jobs. I wouldn't ask for solidarity here, I would reach for solidarity in some other parts, so for example, here it was already mentioned, but I will repeat, in the Office of the Prime Minister, where the increased budgets for me seem a million and some kuna, where the item of staff costs increased by 150 kuna. There would certainly be some money because there are civil servants with decent salaries, perhaps those at a higher level and with these judicial salaries, while they have if they are not officials but officials then they also have a bonus for expenses and regress and Santa Clauses, everything judges and state officials don't have, so I would ask for solidarity there, not within courts because there and thus do not have too much in view of these reduced budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24311	Thank you. And the next replica of Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24312	Thank you very much. You said no large funds were provided, I absolutely agree with that. But I can't help thinking that it's just one part of the story that needs to be looked at cumulatively. Remember the other day we had a discussion of the Police Act. What fell into my eyes and then and now, we move it to 2015, the year that's election year. So I don't think this is exactly what this is like, maybe two years from now, you get the conditions, I think this is designed, it's meant to go again, we're going to throw in another carrot that's being said, so let people judge for themselves how correct a move it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24313	Thank you. Replication response, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24314	So listen to this delay at 2014, 2015 we can certainly interpret, not unknown, such intentions are not among the policies unusual. But here I would say that it seems to me and I'm surprised that the lack of a reaction like the Association of Judges, not a reaction in terms of insisting that it is given to them, because without so little that I can and without it, but a reaction in terms of saying so, so let's stop humiliating us to talk about it every year at the Assembly, and that actually here's the simplest word, it seems like every year we're discussing that we're going to have a little bit of what they need part of the judicial population to delay their application.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24315	Thank you. This concludes the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24316	Final draft law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 212. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 108 votes in favour and 8 votes against the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and other judicial officials in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24317	We move to - Final proposal of the concession law, second reading, PZE No. 134 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the final proposal for a concession law. This final proposal for a law is regulated at the roof level of the proceedings concerning both concession providers and the present, future concessionaires. The final bill in its nature took note of the suggestions during the first reading in the Croatian Parliament and the opinion of the relevant bodies, and in terms of further improvement of the systematic concessions in the Republic of Croatia. I would just briefly, so as I said some things were adopted in this debate itself, some were actually rejected as the amendment of the HZD club where we actually clearly explained the reason why this part was rejected, but we understood the essence, so we're actually going to try to adopt that part through the amendments. What I would just briefly say is that, within this law, a concession report has been delivered, it is the first time in the Republic of Croatia that a concession report is delivered to this House in this way where concession management in the Republic of Croatia is given in this 22 years. I would also just perhaps briefly related to these individual articles where the changes between the first and second readings were, where we were actually still consulting with other bodies that were actually in charge of this part of the law, certainly defining the issues of subconcession. So it wasn't in the first reading, and now it's in the second. The issue of subconcession is defined, Article 43, which is specific to maritime good, and it is necessary to regulate for the development of this natural wealth, which is particularly reflected in the issues of the construction of the port of nautical tourism. It is more clear in the context of concession projects for nautical tourism ports, where it is not possible to use any other form of relationship such as the lease of business space for petrol stations, and clearly determines the necessity of the subconcession. The introduction of a sub-concession enables the development of these ports and simpler treatment of both concessionaires and concessioners. The principle of sub-concession does not differ from the principle set out in this concession law, so that the protection of the concessionr and the public interest linked to the maritime good is ensured. Some standards relating in particular to the Public Procurement Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act are also in line here. We have also coordinated with the State's Attorney's Office to address certain issues of property-legal relations. Also the same with the Ministry of Justice of the individual articles. So if it does, it means specifically new questions are at my disposal here. So, too, if certain questions are related to this report. What is important is to say that the Ministry of Finance is coordinating this part of the concession report and where each ministry should actually give answers, because they are the ones who manage these concessions especially when we talk about concessions, I don't know about water etc. is the competent Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. the beneficiary of concessions. So some more detailed questions in this area should certainly be answered by the resolution ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24319	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of Croatian Labourists Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24320	Mr. Vice President, deputy associate, few colleagues and colleagues, I apologize. Excuse me one more time. The adoption of this law aims to introduce order in this area and it is absolutely fine. The promoter also calls for the need to comply with EU rules and let's say more or less okay, although we as a party are otherwise against the mass public private partnership of concessionaries, privatisations, monetisation and everything else with the goal of ultimately bringing the state down just to say some bureaucratic apparatus that ultimately serves itself. Concessions can even find some of their meaning, let's say, when we compare the electronic media, these television houses have absolutely made their contribution, it makes sense. In his first reading, a colleague named Grbin mentioned pedals. I hope the state doesn't deal with it. Well, I agree. It's an area where we can really say that it makes sense to go with concessions or some other similar form. The fact is that this law further liberalises the concession procedure in order to strengthen the investment cycle and generally economic growth. This is a quoted sentence, and if we were to translate it into that common, everyday language then we could say that this is a way to patch up budget holes, so whether it's a monetization or something else, but it's all about the same thing. We've got one big dubiosis financial, and now we need to find a way to patch it up. To remind myself of our time, we had a conversion and privatisation that was explained in a way that the country was in debt, so now the debts are even bigger. So we had a reason state is basically a bad master, so I'm asking where does that country even rule? My lords, that is to say, those who are well managed by those who have been appointed by the current ruling not only this one, but also the former coalitions in general or the ruling structure however you wish. And then you say bad lords. Not a bad master state, but the fact is that there is no control system, so it happens to us that when he first reads, he mentioned 6 hands of piling if I quote correctly, which is evident that there is no system of responsibility, a system of control. Because otherwise that kind of thing wouldn't have happened. And since these are the people we've appointed, we in terms of the ruling structure then there's no point in calling them names, eventually putting them in some advisory place and eating a pussy cat, no one's answering alive. And in order to change the matter and to manage this property in a truly responsible way, it is necessary to bring about a management strategy and state property, but also a strategy for the development of the entire Republic of Croatia. It is evident that this government has kept running away from the fact that it is not news. Even so, we have not had any strategies, but we had, for example, our own time, the Privatisation Act, if I am not mistaken, Article 8, prescribed privatisation that the privatisation of public companies of HZ, HEP and all others for those privatisations would be passed. Then we abolished that law. We have passed a Law on State Property Management which I think again Article 8 speaks of the state having an obligation, i.e. the Parliament must adopt on a proposal from the Government a State Property Management Strategy. But once again we are in a hurry and again we announce all the sales possible before the adoption of this strategy, even more from the media to conclude that these strategies will not be for at least another year, and we announce the sale as much as we have is in response to the government's parliamentary issues and HPB and Croatia Insurance and HZ Cargo, and I don't know what we don't have. And here we simply see that there is no intention of introducing any order. The additional argument that there is no intention of introducing order is Article 5 of this Act which states what will be covered by concessions. So the says concession is given in different areas and for different activities, especially, and in particular, it means that what's listed here if I don't cheat 20 points doesn't exclude everything else. So we have the possibility that absolutely everything, and the emphasis is only on those 22 points, but when you look a little bit better at those 22 points is covered so almost everything. I'm asking you, who's going to get into some concession? The one to whom it's worth it will come. I am sorry that there are no colleagues here Rilje he once mentioned on the Transport Committee the very problem related to the Croatian Post Office, i.e. the competitiveness of the company to these newly-roasted mail senders. So Croatian Postes still have an obligation to deliver to some village in Banovina, to some village in Dalmatia, to a village in Slavonia, where there is practically no other access to the Croatian Post Office has that obligation and these newly-roasted ones have taken over that part of the market that is attractive, which is profitable, they cover the City of Zagreb. In the town of Zagreb, it is normal to be worth it because there is everything nearby, you have no extra costs, everything is wonderful, everything is wonderful. Now I ask the question if that's the case and why the state if that part is profitable and that it is obviously earned on it, why does the state deny that part and only assumes on itself the part that clearly creates only losses. So what did we really do when we passed that law, dealing with someone else's interests? I don't see any logic here, and if anyone can explain this to me any honor, but I don't see it. I hope you do not resent my colleague for apostrophephicing you, last time we discussed this law, which is an alternative. The problem is, we say, there's no money, there's no alternative, and then we make a mess, and then it goes without any rules, no strategy, no rules, and then we go to another extreme. So in the end, we're going to end up with everything that shouldn't go and everything that could possibly be given to someone in a concession I just don't see who's going to take in a concession if it doesn't make him a profit. That doesn't make any sense. What about those public functions of the state that aren't worth it to anyone? I think last time someone also mentioned that when a public-private partnership enters hospitals and health institutions. I'd add to that that's what's going to get into schools and colleges. Then what's the point of the state? First, you will have some simple citizen of the Republic of Croatia from Banovina, Posavina, Posavina, who, due to concessions, will have no one to maintain traffic lines on that part, he first and foremost has no place to come to some city, place, and then because of the new law that we haven't long passed, he will be reduced to 4 hospitals in the state, and then he will actually come to the infirmary in Sisak, or he'll have to pull a little more into his pocket, and then he will get to the hospital in Zagreb, but then he will come there and find out that most of these hospital institutions or universities or private schools are going to realize again that he has no money to pay. Well, in the end, it all comes down to us having a state that will allow for everything the rights of the state should be made possible, but only to those who have it. Those who do not have, so who is to blame that they do not have? Is this then the state which We willed? I don't think anyone would agree with that. On the first reading, there were words, and this was greatly resented by fellow Shuker when he mentioned Croatian roads and the possibility of a referendum. There's been a lot of criticism on this side about it being demagogy, that now it's for a referendum that wasn't before and something like that. But I am definitely the attitude that under no circumstances should we give in the concession of objects that have already been built. The highways are made with these citizens' money and it really shouldn't be. But if the government insists if the ruling insists on it yet then I still think it's correct if nothing else advisory referendum and at least it's time to know that it's not saying that... 6 demagogues of populists in the Croatian Parliament, let the people say what they think about it. Whether they're really for it or not, so let's see maybe this government runs the state where maybe 4 million populists and demagogues live. I also think, finally, that before the adoption of any... this law must go but before making any decisions that are bound by this law that the state actually or government really does if the government of these citizens would have to adopt a state property management strategy before they sell anything monetized or that in concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24321	Thank you, too. The replica was reported by Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24322	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Novak, you said in your speech that some say that the state is a bad master. I, like you, disagree with such a thesis, cannot accept the fact that the state is a bad master. For me in the country, someone is acting in authority and someone is either responsible or not responsible for the good given to them by management. And the state is as responsible or irresponsible as it puts a certain management or a certain administration in some of these companies. This management can work well and can run and build a successful company or it can work badly and ruin that company. If the lodge works then it is clear that it is the power to take certain measures to change, to control, etc. The state as a state cannot possibly be a bad master and these are certain the thesis that some impose in such a way as to make certain monetizations as they say or practically sell state resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24323	Thank you. We have a response to the line of Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a colleague now that you've started with this country is a bad master I remembered the first days of the meeting of this Assembly and some laws that you've been named after some people. We're not talking about this right now. But among other things, it is said from this pay phone that we are "ready to take responsibility" and when the man whom the minister appoints when he commits a crime when he makes a bad business trait when that bad business decision leads to a crisis and a firm and, ultimately, a certain business branch, I will bear the responsibility of myself as a minister. I have to admit that I didn't hear that sentence anymore I haven't noticed that the media, usually the media can lift it up like that, I haven't noticed that they used it too often, but maybe it's not burned up now it's been a year since the new government to make a kind of inventory to see if there were any gaps so that this government shows that they weren't really saying they were really standing behind their words, so if there were any gaps, failures, and I believe there are, so let a nice example prove the truth of what they were saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24325	Thank you, too. Next replica Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here's colleague Novak talking about this final proposal of the Law on concessions and it's necessary to mention that since the law was passed, there have been 14 thousand contracts in the register of concessions in the Republic of Croatia and that during this past time he has made it possible to fill the state budget at the level of 2 billion 639 million kuna and that he could have even more concession contracts in that register through this law. There could also be contracts for concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials on our rivers and on Drava and on Sava and on the Union and on the Danube. This is how the Republic of Croatia has been importing gravel and sand for the past 10 years. Sand from Albania, sand from Serbia, sand from Republika Srpska, rock from Republika Srpska, gravel from Republika Srpska for only one reason that in the water law, according to the recommendation of the greens or pressure of the greens, we cannot clean up the troughs of our rivers, our construction sector cannot have cheap construction material. This is the only reason why I wanted to point out even though this is not in the concession law but the concession register could be supported as well as the state budget with all these expenditures that would be in the new concession contracts because the footage of our rivers being made... with gravel and sand and we are importing it from...our Serbian Republic of Serbia from Albania even because the Neretva Delta is uncleaned and there we pay for every stranded ship standing between the international waterway along the Paradise Convention we pay for the penals for a month. Here's what I wanted to stress to the Ministry of Finance but also to the entire state apparatus and government of the Republic of Croatia because I've said before that that we have more room to charge the state budget only if we want from our rivers which other potentials now benefit from.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24327	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica here, Comrade Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24328	Thank you very much. So I can agree with most of what you said, and I have to admit that in this register that's been offered, in general, there's a very important part of my register, how much of it we don't know and how much we don't know. And now, as far as these waterways are concerned, I agree with you completely, there's only one more piece. Croatia has taken over the obligation to maintain waterways and now the fact is that we ourselves are not to tell myself what they have done, a trick around the neck. We are obliged to maintain our shipping routes by international regulations, not maintain them. The damage we're doing, it's gone unfortunately and Danube... and there's nothing happening to us, and basically the biggest problem is obviously in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24329	Thank you, too. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's colleague Novak's example of the post office you've been talking about certain problems that rural areas are facing again. Namely, mail delivery is one of the fundamental achievements of law, etc. and in that part, therefore, the need for mail delivery continues through Croatian mail because these newly-roasted as you said players are not interested in some non-attractive destinations. But look, it's not just a problem. The problem is that mail is not only for mail delivery but it is also a bank and solving all the needs of the public in that area, from pensions that truly God is small, from paying bills if he does not pay immediately knowing what is next. And the third problem is most of all, there's no money in rural areas, and now what's going on? The post office is also not interested, and every little bit we face is that they want to close a certain facility, a certain mail. And what happens, again, the village and rural areas remain short sleeves, there is no money, there is no mail, there is a depopulation, and we are talking about even development, about equality. So there's no r from even development, and there's no equality to not talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24331	Thank you, too. Answer me, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24332	Thank you very much. Well, the example of the Croatian Post Office was definitely the best fit in this story, and I mentioned it because my colleague Rilje is from the ruling coalition, so I have to admit that he's put the whole problem right. But we've got something else, we're trying to get someone, no matter what I say, they're going to get up right now when I say it, but we're always trying to do this neoliberal capitalism, and we can lie, we can fool ourselves, I don't know what to do, but the fact is, that's how it is. Because we keep looking for profits, we're asking them to be self-sustainable companies that are actually in public office. You can't be competitive or you can do business positively if you have to deliver a single letter to the top of Dinara or Banovina, since your colleague mentioned it today. There is certainly no profit, and the cost exists, and until that changes, thinks about the part in the heads of those who decide so far there is no happiness for the rural area or for the public companies that are in the hands of the ruling ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24333	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Klarin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24334	Well, colleague Novak, I remember that saying, "Is your friend sorry the West is coming to us?" We live 20 years in the market economy, we wouldn't have mail competition, we wouldn't have competition for Jadrolinija, we'd have a taxi in Zagreb. It doesn't work like that anymore, it doesn't work like that anymore. So we simply had to decide whether we'd be the state we are or be, for example. Cuba or we'll be China, and then we'll mix one economy and the other. So I'm surprised when you say we have a concession at the post office and other companies are entering that activity. Well, normally, we've been living for 20 years if I'm not wrong in a system like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24335	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We won't take that opening part as an insult. I don't know what you are, but you've alluded to something bad or you haven't, but I'm leaving it to you on your conscience. This second part, have you ever heard of honesty? For honesty? And you know what an honest relationship means? If all these concessionaries who had been given to work only in Zagreb, if they had been prescribed that they should take the same letter to the Dinara Summit under the same conditions, and why it was not done, because it was not an interest and it was another interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24337	Thank you. And the last replica, Goldy Komadina. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24338	Thank you, Vice President. Well, first of all, I'd say that I agree with both colleague Clara and colleague Novak, both of them telling the truth, that's the time. Otherwise, I'm not, of course, a supporter if between China and Cuba, it could be classified somewhere. But as for what you were talking about, I remember in 97, '98, a law was passed not on what you were talking about now, about the separation of certain postal activities, a law was passed on the separation of HPT in HP and HT, if you remember. I remember my discussion not from this one but from some other pay phone when I said we would give foreigners winnings, and Croatia's losses and that happened. But it happens in every country today, but you Labourists are in one great position, I won't say I envy you, but you're in a wonderful position, you have no responsibility and you can even tell the truth. (Laughter) That's right, you just can't change anything. It's a little different when you have the responsibility of authorities like they had colleagues on the other side or like we do because sometimes you're just forced into moves that are not popular, they're not really great but sometimes you don't have a choice. The concession law itself is not bad, it should be possible to provide various activities in the concession. Better a concession than a sale. You can still get the concession to run. Of course a bad decision is a bad concession. If you gave her what the Buddha would say why, but better yet than selling as before. There are excellent examples of concessions, and unfortunately there are these. However, I will just mention a few magic words that are now being demonstrated from Slovenia to Italy and so on. Deregulation, free market, flow of people and capital, IMF, World Bank and its European trades, etc. These are all instruments to get the states away from managing... And that capital is actually run by states. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's today, I think it's the neoliberalism I personally am against. But, well, time, I've been before and now I am. [[Invader Batinić: Time, time colleagues.]] Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24339	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24340	Thank you very much. Well, you indirectly said that we're the only ones here who are telling the truth. I hope your colleagues experience the same way. Well, I wouldn't exactly agree with that. There's one thing in life that describes every single person. You can do some work one way or another, and it doesn't matter what business you're in, it matters what kind of man you are. Whether you're doing it really in the interest of making it better or it's pro-form, I'm there to do my job, to have a health, pension, and everything else is irrelevant. This is the last thing you said there are more terms that could be added to restructuring especially in the Croatian way which, in general, only mass release could be one of the reasons for the general crisis, i.e. the crisis of citizens. Is that what we want? And is it always something from the West or from the EU that we really have to accept? What? So look, we're acting by the system in Brussels is said, people my turn to listen. Well, that's not how it works. Well, it won't, if people go out to the streets tomorrow, if someone bad happens, so you won't be able to tell me that Brussels told me that. So who's going to rule this country, is this from Brussels or you? And if you don't rule, then step aside. But that's what people will tell you. Now don't tell you six MPs or other colleagues who are in opposition. That's what people on the street are gonna tell you. It's just gonna be a lot worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24341	Time. Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Ivan Klarin, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24342	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So here's a few words on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP I say the SDP Representatives Club will, therefore, support the final proposal for a concession law. First of all, the purpose of the law is to bring the EU acquis into line with the concessions, i.e. the area of public procurement, and the aim of the applicant of the proposal for this law is to achieve as much legal certainty as possible in the concession procedures and the implementation of concession contracts. The introduction of a series of solutions that achieve greater flexibility and simpler treatment in the award of concessions for the economic use of general or other goods or concessions of less value. In the SDP, we believe that the aim is to achieve the greatest efficiency of the collection and orderly implementation of other obligations under the Treaty on concessions, as well as the increased control by the concession register and the greater transparency, so in the application of the concession institute itself. The main objectives, therefore, of this final proposal, are the intensive entry of private capital, strengthening economic activity, increasing revenues as general tax revenues, increasing revenue from concessions, and all in achieving the announced investment momentum. More intensive implementation of the public private partnership, i.e. the application of the instrument, i.e. concessions. I'm going to make a few proposals in this final bill that we consider positive. Therefore, to define exactly three types of concessions as well as giving guidance to distinguish the type of concession when it comes to border cases between concessions for public works and public services whose indetermination has created difficulties so far and has allowed for further action. Therefore, it further accurately defines the estimated value of the concession which had not been set before but has been determined by the application of the provisions of different laws which we consider to be quite positive. Introducing a concession analysis instead of a eligibility study to facilitate and shorten concessions, therefore preparatory actions especially for individual concessionaries. Greater control and stronger emphasis on avoiding potential conflicts of interest in the appointment of expert committees for conflict of interest, i.e. The members of the commission must make a declaration of independence guaranteed, so that they are not in conflict of interest which further defines Article 14. Enhancing efficiency, introducing the possibility of appointing one expert commission to grant more concessions in public service concessions and the economic use of general or other goods. A precise definition of whether the concession for public works and public service concessions is characterised by a public-private partnership, i.e. Article 15 of the clear indication and definition of the situation. So, making, handling documentation for competition, which so far has not been the case and created one additional confusion. In addition, part of the procedure under the name and public opening of tenders as well as the examination and assessment of tenders submitted in the concession procedure has been arranged, and a detailed description of the invalid offer, as well as the indication of the explicit criteria on which the selection of tenders is based. The introduction of a concession institution on request, namely in precisely four cases in the economic use of general or social goods, and where the award of a concession on a request constitutes an economic, logical and justifiable treatment in which there will be no harm to the concession providers when the concession is therefore necessary for a reason to give what is technologically and functionally linked therefore to this basic project, and therefore cannot be granted to anyone else for practical reasons. Furthermore, we believe in the SDP that it is positive that the tendering documentation produced under the law and eligibility studies will be published a notice of the intention to grant concessions in the electronic public procurement notice of the Republic of Croatia. So, in a standardised form, which therefore definitely ensures complete transparency. Also, studies and documentation are an integral part of the process and are archived and are always available to review, which is why we also consider one progress given the old or former 2008 concession law. The issue of sub-concession is also regulated, which therefore concerns the maritime well-being. So I must stress here that the Law on the Sea Good therefore is not the only one that is not in line with the Law on concessions which will be a major problem because the Law on the Sea Good, so it is not clear who can get a concession for the economic use of the maritime goods, in particular the local self-government units on the Adriatic, have a problem with the inability to collect bonds, so in the outside of the port area, which is why they cannot call a concession for that activity, nor can anyone get a concession. Furthermore, the introduction of grey economy control instruments by means of supervision in cases of suspicion that an economic operator or a natural person is carrying out an activity for which a concession is required and without a contract concluded... via the Ministry of Finance. We therefore believe that the improvement and service and the violation provisions that are now much better and better defined in Articles 59, 60 and 61. After the first reading, the ministry developed a normal final bill proposal, and it respected good remarks from the first reading that both representatives clubs and fellow MPs made. Normally, some remarks have been rejected and therefore supported and we consider this to be one of the better solutions. Finally, in the SDP, we believe that this final proposal of the law detailes and standardises the award procedure as well as the necessary document and strengthens the control of the legality of concession providers, in particular, facilitates the handling and collection of charges and gives greater powers over the control of the exercise of obligations undertaken by the concession contract. In particular, the final draft of the law is aimed at detailing and developing a public-private partnership institute, which would be of great benefit especially to local self-government units, which is why we in the SDP say we welcome. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the Final Proposal for the Law on concessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24343	Thank you very much. The replica has Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24344	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You told your colleague Klarin that the Marine Good Law is not yet in line with the concession law. That's right. And for me, that's not even a little weird, so I'll discuss it later. That's what I was saying when I first read this law. The maritime well-being is indeed specific and it would be good if the concession of the maritime goods especially seaports were to be given to the home law, i.e. the lex specialis law in this case, and it is not by any chance that from 2008 to now the former government, and how much information I have, and I think I have good information from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, this government is not exactly in line, there is no unique position to approach the adoption of the Law on Maritime Good. And within the government itself, there is a division of different thinking whether concessions on the maritime good should be left to this roofal concession law or concessioning of the maritime good particularly seaports to be implemented under the Maritime Good Act. I personally think that there was room for this law to appear in Article 4 and when it comes to concessioning seaports and when it comes to concessioning maritime goods to the Law on the Sea Good, because the management of maritime goods cannot come as, for example, to me, which is well in the general application established by the Constitution, it cannot be as a compensation for, for example, public works carried out by a particular construction company when it builds a waterfront, a waterfront, etc., etc. Therefore, I think we should remain on the subject of a maritime good concession by the Law on the Sea Good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24345	Replication response, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24346	I agree with you, therefore, and I believe that neither your government nor your former government nor this government, although we have a firm promise from the ministry that the law is in preparation and that it will finally be able to concession maritime good in the Republic of Croatia. I must say that the terrible money is lost because of the lack of that law, by the estimate of several billion kunas, here, for example, my municipality must be over a million and 500 thousand kunas, which we have calculated to be lost because of the inability to make concessions so in areas outside the port. So, I think and I support it, I will dare say so and appeal to the urgent adoption of this law to make it, so I will dare say, the only segment that still cannot be concessioned in the Republic of Croatia is maritime good. I have to say that no country, I've studied it a little bit, so in the Mediterranean, it hasn't solved the state of concession in its own ports. All those boaters sailing from Greece, Italy, Malta is completely unclear to them that one unit of local self-government, one tourist centre that simply cannot charge them the bond because of the absence of this law. It is very likely that this law was simply passed, and if it wasn't there, I will say, there will be and the state's attorney's office would certainly have seen the light of day, and therefore they would have acted on it. Here again, I personally spoke to Minister Hajdash Doncic, who therefore promised that the draft bill would go into procedure by the end of this year. I hope, then, that in the next year, in the new session, we will have the Law on Maritime Goods and Marine Waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24347	It's the SDSS club, and my colleague, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24348	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on concessions in relation to the proposal we had in the first reading was significantly improved, and a good part of the remarks we heard here in the Assembly and on committees was respected by the proposings, including the proposal which we ourselves made that it is necessary to attach to the proposal the state of the concession contracts, the fact about them, and in particular the supervision of the realisation of concession contracts and the enforcement of obligations on the basis of them according to concessions, to units of local self-government and to the state. In this regard, I would like to express on behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party club the satisfaction of co-operation reached between the parliament and the competent ministry. What I would like to say in this debate is this. The law is improved, the awareness that it is necessary to strengthen the state is indicated here, and what I would like to say is that this will depend on the actual meaning, the purpose of this law, especially in the circumstances in which we are having discussions about how we have too many states, there are debates about how we should cheapen the state, and in fact, the most rare debate on how we should make the state more efficient, and if we make it more efficient then it will certainly not be expensive. Examples of this are concession fees, when the state is effective then it is not expensive, when inspectors and competent authorities, competent ministries, local self-government units do their job then they are not expensive, when they do not work it then they are of course expensive,... something that doesn't bring the results you need. [[You don't understand.]] I will present a number that can be read from the attached concession contract report and their realisation. So somewhere with the 10th month of the current year 2012, there has been a close of just over 14,000 concession contracts, and since 2004, there has been a constant increase in the conclusion of concession contracts, with declines and oscillations over the various years, and of course in which areas growth is recorded, and in which areas no growth is recorded. When looking at the structure of concession contracts the largest category within the 14 thousand remains in the category, the category remained services in the field of health and in the sphere of municipal services. So some types, they're certainly not as many hospitals as pharmacies, they're certainly not as many polyclinics as they're ambulatory, so some kind of craftsmanship with, of course, extremely intellectual expensive work and expensive resources that are necessary for that. On the other hand, communal services, so what the local self-government units used to do, cities, I don't know what it's like in Zadar, I don't know what it's like in Gorica, what it's like in Split, or in another town, whether they all have Zagreb Holding or have other solutions, or whether it's divided by concessionaries, in any case of 14 thousand concession contracts on this activity is 10,000. Inside that, we have three thousand and 300 and some of those who don't actually meet the concession obligations, don't pay concession fees, if we add those, so that's almost one quarter, if we add those who break concession agreements either by renting, either by exploiting in the water economy, something we shouldn't exploit, which was especially in the exploitation of gravel, then it can be seen that there's room for the state to grow stronger, and if we do, then we don't need to have the fear of concessions, regardless of whether they're socialists or liberals. I belong among these first ones. But then we can't, we shouldn't have. But if we don't have a strong state, regardless of whether we're talking about concessionaries who agree to concessions that the state's lords, or concessions with which the state shares with municipalities and counties, if there's no discipline and strong state, then that job is too risky. Then this job is about like a privatisation business. In other words, of course, we welcome and strengthen the role of the register, we certainly welcome and strengthen the defined conditions for obtaining a concession, we welcome, of course, the supervisory and supervisory bodies that are envisaged but what we want to hear from you, Mr. Deputy, what is most important is from the minister and prime minister... how to strengthen the state. How to strengthen control of local self-government units? how to remove said here rightly mentioned I think colleague Milinkovic's areas that are undeveloped and where we have concessions on hunting grounds, concessions on water, concessions exploitation of wood mass, different types of concessions which we can rightly ask if they are used in the right way and how much of that really gets to those poor local self-government units where double damage is done. On the one hand, it does not come into their budget, and on the other hand they knock on the door of the state and ask the state for money to be helped. For these reasons, the SDSS supports this proposal with these amendments but believes that the guarantee of implementing this will be only if the government shows by its policy that it wants to strengthen the function of the state and the instruments of the state. Because if that is not the case if the efficiency of the state is not strengthened unless the authority of the civil servant and his professional ethics are strengthened, then we will actually have concession instruments as a means to weaken the state for the poverty of the nation and to compromise this law. And that experience we've already been through with privatisation, that experience we've been through with earlier concessions. And I'm going to say one thing as someone rightly says we should do a review and a privatisation review procedure somewhere. There is a basis to consider also the revision of concession contracts. And, Mr. Deputy, it would be good if your ministry were based on this report that I could say that it could have been more detailed but had provided enough information to suggest to the Governments where it is needed and where it is necessary. If you were able to publish a list of taxpayers, then there's no reason not to even think about how to fix this situation. If you think about publishing a list of defenders, then you need to think about how to seduce order here. This is no less important and no less important because it strengthens credibility in an institute that carries certain risks with it. But those risks will only be eliminated if we can control them completely. For the time being, to return to this figure that I have said to the concession contracts, regardless of what in the total amount of funds derived from the concession contracts may not be the means but it is the concession contracts and that is the difficulty. And in that sense, we encourage you to move towards strengthening the instrument because it's one of the reasons why this government has gained confidence and it's one of the imperatives that feel like a need to protect what can be protected, it has to protect. Now allow me two words around the highway. If we separate political approach to things, we would actually come to the question of an advisory referendum and other mechanisms from considering the real situation that our financial situation is, what needs are, then we would actually come to the fact that, regardless of the internal resistance we can have, no matter how personal it is that we have to do that if she had time, the government of Jadranka Kosor would have had time. I don't, of course, say it's my last. Thus, it is certainly an unsolicited means but an inevitable means. And the inevitable means so much that from day to day the state of our finances is getting worse. And the healing capacity of our finances is weak. So the question is not whether or not we should do it, the question is how can we as a state negotiate it and then the question of how will we manage it and for what purpose do we use it? That's the real question. This first thing, unfortunately, is just a lamentation of what we can't control because we've lost our ability to control it. I am, by my understanding, much closer to my colleagues from the Labour Club than some others. I wish we were in a situation of China than if we were in a situation of Croatia, but we're not. China is more of a capitalist country than Croatia to understand, and in that respect, with a lot about counterpart Blazekovic waving his head because they have a single-party system, but they have a capitalist economy about everything, regardless of the titlemaker. But let's leave that debate behind for later and leave for indicators that talk about their growth, about their way of managing what is represented by national wealth. Let's leave it, let's look at the experience of bigger countries than we did how long it took them to recover after they agreed to a rougher process, like the Russian Federation. And let's go back to the basic question now. So the SDSS Representatives' Club will support this final proposal, accept the debate and consider that there should be a debate in the Assembly when it comes to the agreement on monetisation, or concessions on the road, it should be. I don't think it's necessary to pass a special law but to adopt a programme of management of funds and what with these means should be done and how it is intended to negotiate, yes. It is the government's duty to submit to this House. And Mr. Deputy Minister, therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS proposes that before entering negotiations to submit a plan to this Assembly, how this would appear to be the plan to be submitted to this Parliament, how and how it is meant to be available by means to be received under the concession agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24349	Thank you very much. Four replicas to your exposure. Ivan Shuker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24350	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Pupovac, I agree with most of your debate, but when we talk about introducing order, that the order should be introduced first, because if you don't have all the concessions recorded in one place, then you can't talk about order because unfortunately, according to the concession law, there's no old one in this country practically who couldn't give a concession to something. And it wasn't in the Republic of Croatia that the number of concession contracts jumped as much as it was finally those who didn't want to deliver their concession contracts all these years... there were several parliamentary issues while I was a resolute minister, so I cited some cities and these big ones in Croatia that one other political option was in power, they didn't want to deliver contracts. However, if we want to put pressure on citizens, the companies will be smaller then all those who in one way or another use either natural wealth or do certain services should pay their part of the money either in the state or in the city budget depending on what the concession is, but with the government always having to take care that certain services provided to certain companies must not lead to the situation that Croatian citizens pay a high price. So the concession on one side is very positive, eventually the whole world uses, but also very dangerous if it gets out of hand. So the Nucleus of this whole story was a register. When a register is established, it may also be possible to change certain legal solutions that will lead to it being fairer and fairer, but with control. Because I repeat, at this point, of these 14,000 contracts, you have concession contracts on very valuable findings that have been given by individual administrations in the ministries during all governments, so that they don't call each other. Now all these contracts are on the Ministry of Finance's website and you can see exactly who did what, but it's a start just as correct as this law is, I'll talk about it later, with one exception of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24351	Thank you. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24352	I agree with that other half of what you said, so I agree with your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24353	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24354	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I agree with most of your debate, especially in the part where you talked about poor rural areas. But I noticed one claim you said, when units of local self-government and inspections do their job then they're not concessions expensive. Maybe inspections can do business because they have tools, and units of local self-government are observers. I come from an area where there's a lot of exploitation, a lot of concessions and mineral raw materials and gas, and you know the way it happens, that many times we get into tough debates with those who exploit without talking about the exploitation of the gravel that you're also talking about. And it's true that almost 1/4 doesn't pay, it's true that they don't pay. And what to do, nothing. They're destroying the roads that these units of local self-government that they're going to have to sneak up on, they have to lay down, and they don't. And I hope deeply, and I believe that in this area order should be introduced, indeed, but local self-government units don't have much opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24355	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24356	Well, Col. Milinkovic actually has a right to what he's saying, I would just supplement it with one finding at the end of this report. The supervisory procedures also found that the executive solutions adopted by the Financial Police were largely not charged because after the performance of the enforcement, no enforcement was initiated. Therefore, unfortunately, a participant in non-functioning or a participant in non-compliance with concession agreements, not to say a participant in crime, is the one who should take care of justice, which is the competent courts and competent authorities to carry out the exercise. Unfortunately, it's not just in the event of a concession. Our judiciary is in such a state that in a number of places, a participant in a crime scene, whether or not he wanted to, one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24357	Mile Horvat replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24358	Thank you. My colleague Pupovci and I are in full agreement with what you said. I'd just get a little bit more under it. I think the logic of the concession is, so any concession must first of all have its logic. Then I ask a practical question from experience whether it's logical that hunting grounds are given for 30 years concessions with an annual concession fee of 50 euros and so for the next 30 years. Is it logical to give thousands and thousands of hectares to large concessions of agricultural land at the price of, an annual concession fee of 400 and some kuna per hectare? The chiefs, therefore, are the revenues of local self-government and are extremely important to them to make this income as large as possible and they are dissatisfied. They keep saying that it is not a correct concession fee because a simple peasant pays for the same hectare a year in Baranja but over a thousand kuna fees. Therefore, the answer has always been a concession signed, cannot be changed. So the concession is the contract. Any contract can be changed when it loses some sort of basic logic in its most important part.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24359	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24360	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A few days ago or a week ago, we had a relatively tumultuous and extra-politicalally sensitive issue to change or not to change the contract we made with MOL. Why the question of concession agreements on individual concessions is less serious and less problematic than this issue. There's no outside-political risk. There is no difficulty in which this could lead us, and we are not asking that question by the trace of what you fellow Horvat have put in place, which is if some concession contract was concluded in the circumstances 15 years ago and if circumstances are, there are no colleagues of Clarina here to tell him that market circumstances have changed. Then I don't see any reason why we shouldn't start working on a review of concession contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24361	And the replica Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24362	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In his presentation, Pupovac first opposed two ideologies to make it clearer later my view of socialism and liberalism, i.e. social and liberal politics, and here we clearly placed ourselves in socialist, socialist, and here we are clearly on opposite sexes. I'm a liberal. And then, as an example, he took and said that he would rather be Croatia like China. I must admit that I am completely against Croatia being like China in any way, and especially in terms of labour prices, in terms of human rights and in terms of development, such development of China as it has paid about a billion unfortunate people today. And I would prefer as opposed to his ideology as a liberal, compare rather said and like Croatia as Denmark, as Sweden or as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24363	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24364	Well, I, my colleague Blazekovic, fully agree that I would not mind, for example, being as Denmark, especially when it comes to the distortion of income income from the citizens of Denmark, that is, Croatia, in revenues. In Denmark, it looks like a solid barrel of two hundred liters, and with us it looks about like a mother horn and like a Pannonian, Slavonic plain. So, I'd love to, but no one mentioned Denmark, they mentioned that unfortunate China. Because no one like my colleague Clarine said we wouldn't want to be like China. Why? Because China is pictured as being there at the time of Mao Tse-tung, not at the time of today's state of the country with enormous growth, a country with an enormous impact on the economic sphere. And of course a country that suffers from capitalist internal changes, low labour prices, disrespect for human rights and the like. But do we have a much better job price? Is respect for labour rights on our behalf ensured? Are labour contracts respected? How many people work without a work contract? How many people work under the circumstances of full-time insecurity? Let's look at ourselves, then just raise our voice to the Chinese.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24365	It is next to the HNS club and counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24366	Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's another reading Final proposal of the concession law. To begin with, the Croatian People's Party Club will clearly support this final bill. What do you say? This law came in the wake of what was seen as a flaw in the existing 2008 law, although the law was made in 2008 for the reason of the need for legal harmonisation, with the EU acquis. But as the EU legislator who regulates the issue of concession and concessions has shown certain shortcomings, so it has happened clearly with us, and as with most laws and at this time, it brings certain changes and needs to go to the making of a new law or that they are possibly being complemented. This law adopts some newspapers that are in any case desirable to the HNS, which is to define both the responsibilities and powers in implementing concession policy, to be very clearly defined and the responsibilities if the provisions concerning the implementation and control of concession contracts are violated, are prescribed with the guarantee and the need to control the validity of the guarantees given to the concessionors. For the implementation of the contract, some specificities have also been observed, so for example, it is permitted to issue sub-concessions when it comes to concessions on maritime good for nautical tourism ports because we had one practical situation that in the ports of nautical tourism there was actually no legal form for the establishment of the activities of oil trade, which is an integral part of the service of every serious and quality port of nautical tourism. We believe in HNS that the concession is not evil if it is implemented correctly, if the conditions under which concession contracts are concluded are quality standard and that the state and regional administration and local self-government can have and have an interest in the creation of concession contracts. The same number of 14 thousand concessions in Croatia testifys to how many such contracts there are and how many economic activities have been based on such contractual form, how many jobs today in nautical tourism, how many jobs in the service sector or in the exploitation of general goods, or mine wealth is today stable and ensures existence in the Republic of Croatia. The clear point can also be agreed with previous speakers who mentioned the need to also make a review of concessions. Because the fact is that in the field of concessions and concession contracts there was everything, that everything and in the activities that should be covered exclusively by concession contracts, for example in the use of maritime goods, that activities were carried out without concessions and therefore, in any case, it is a positive thing in this law, which is prescribed to define clearly the role of the Ministry of Finance which has the responsibility and the authority to control and even that part. So to suppress those actions that fall within the realm of the black economy, i.e. working on black, working outside institutions. The Register of concessions was also mentioned. A fellow Shucker apostrophe of a positive nature for introducing the Register of concessions, and I must comment without any malice that I find it actually strange that once upon a time when we introduced a concession as a model that we did not immediately establish a register of such contracts. Just as surprised as I am that a state that owns its own property doesn't have a register of that property today. I can also agree on behalf of the HNS Club that some things should be published just as some other things have been published because I see no difference between, I said that in the first debate in the first reading, there is no difference between non-payment obligations and non-payment obligations. There's absolutely no difference, and I don't see any reason why some businessmen would be impaled to a pillar of shame for not paying taxes, and we're hiding someone else without paying the concession. I think that once we have to start implementing a clean bill policy in this country, things have to be transparent and the public has a right to know. I believe that no level or severity of the concession agreement in the future should be covered by a very secret, that the concessions, the benefits arising from the concessions, the commitments that the concessionaire has towards the concession in terms of investment, maintenance, employment, payment of fixed, variable fees must be fully clear and transparent because they are, namely, the most interesting concessions involved in the use and the first group of use of the general good. And the general good is neither property nor state nor private, it is generally good and belongs to all and present and future generations. And the thing is about regulation, the thing is about exploitation I apologize, about exploiting that kind of good and must be equally transparent. The day we make all the processes in this country transparent, then we'll have a clean account policy, and when we have a clean account policy, then we'll probably not be able to touch me now in the next minutes of this exposure. We'll return to a dilemma that has such a patriotic sound, perhaps ideologically, as far as highways are concerned, railways. She's even subject to amendments that are as we can see on the benches proposed. Do you concession Croatian highways and do you concession Croatian railways? In short, not only this year's state budget but the previous governments have always experienced the same dilemma in which the Croatian state is, how do we stand when it comes to finance? And then you look at the figures and you see just one interesting thing, let's say, in the retirement sector, we have liabilities of 35 billion kuna a year, and the funds are filled with 16 billion kuna. And you realize that 19 billion kunas must be created from somewhere to get all the pensioners what they need. Then came the completely justified demands of regional parties, for example from Slavonia, which remained poor due to a number of wrong moves, and they are fully justified when you look at them from this aspect and there are observations about raising the quality of health services with the status of educational workers, and then you realize that we need tens of billions that we do not have, and then you come to the topic that I came to and personally driving towards Dubrovnik recently when I actually realized that in one point the standard that belongs to all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia and, say, the Dubrovnik coast does not have the quality of road connection and land connection with the rest of the country. And then you figure out very quickly that it is necessary according to the possibilities when an opportunity is created to complete that highway and lead it to the far south. Now the question is, how? We have highways set up as they are today, i.e. in the state in which they are today the idea was once very different, and it is quite clear that those who today in these conditions of the waste products cannot provide extra funds and profits from which to finance further construction of highways, we understand how much we are in charge and that we do not have much room for further borrowing, we have Croatian railways which are also a great loser and which clearly cannot accumulate with such losses, and they have simply no profit with which the state of rail infrastructure would be obtained in appropriate condition, and we have witnessed the last years a series of accidents of which some unfortunately ended and tragically. And you clearly conclude that decades of wrong policies have led this country into a situation that it cannot invest where it is necessary, that it is creating losses where they should not be and that in fact the complete system in the Republic of Croatia is being questioned. The answer is that very clear, whether you should put highways, railways in a concession. It is our opinion in the Croatian People's Party that, because right now we have no conditions of strength or breath in our lungs to do whatever it takes to truly restructure the system of railways and highways. At the end of the concession as a model, we experience as a good variant, thinking that the primary national interest is all the resources that the subject of the concessions retains in the possession of the Republic of Croatia and at the same time allow for them to be founded and carried out economic activities, to encourage investment, to open up the possibility of investment and job creation. An alternative to concessions that would possibly be acceptable to capital that could invest and create jobs and start an economy is the establishment of ownership rights. Fellow Members and colleagues, it is a dilemma whether to go to concessions and keep for future generations owned by everything the Republic of Croatia has as real resources, or decide to move away from concessions and go for sale. I believe that there is not only a parliamentary representative or advocate, but also any well-intentioned citizen of this country who would not give a very clear answer, concessions clearly controlled, clearly well-defined, with precise conditions that clearly indicate that Croatia benefits from this in a transparent way, clearly defined, controlled, which bring not only fees, but also new investments, benefits, employment and progress. On the contrary, in the coming years, we will be in worse shape, and then we will be forced not to concession, but to sell, and when the first sales come to order, then I believe that this assembly will be much more fulfilled and the debate will be much more bile. For these reasons we welcome the new Law on concessions, the efforts of the legislator to complete and perfect the model of implementation of the concession policy in the Republic of Croatia, with the hope that we will work more honestly, more quality in the coming years and that concessions will bring us benefits, we will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24367	Comrade Baranovic, your exposure has caused 8 replicas. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24368	Comrade Baranovic, you have rightly warned of the current riot in the concession system, I will only remain on the part concerning maritime goods, because it is known that this law will unfortunately not be able to solve all problems until a new Law on the Sea Good and defines the criteria of use, in particular the setting of maritime goods limits. But I ask you, who was in the interest of keeping this mess going? Who was in the interest of not making a concession contract register for so long? How is it possible that one marina on the Adriatic is paying for the concession in that part that is fixed, of 10 kuna per metre square, and that another marina pays for it by concession by 2032 50 limes and up to 2054 euro per 50 euro cent. How is it possible to blackmail people who come to the ministry and tell them to take it or leave it? How can nautical ports not having a concession contract work? How is it possible that the concession is issued on something that is not owned by the Republic of Croatia? So how is it possible that there's been a riot? Secondly, please comment on whether it is normal for the current situation to be resolved in this way that no investment in the concentrated space is recognised and that we are actually leading to that no one wants to invest in the last 5 years of the concession contract because there is no system of valorisation of invested capital in investments? Is that normal? Or should we approach the valorisation of what has been invested, and then include it in the value of the next concession contract, regardless of which concession it has brought? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24369	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24370	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Beus, in fact, asked a salva question which made it a little difficult for me to give detailed answers in two minutes to all the questions asked, but what can be given as one universal answer in any case is that it is actually evident from everything that it is necessary to once again emphasise the revision of concessions and clearly in not only this roof law on concessions but also the other 18 laws that are actually directly related to the Law on concessions. It is necessary to establish certain standards in concessioning and in determining the amount for a particular type of concession. Because it is true that, in practice so far, there have been very strange contradictory situations in which one and the same category of concessions had completely different amounts of concession fee and, in some cases, the concession fee may be considered ridiculously low in other cases, we testify to concession fees that are so high that they endanger only the business of concessionaires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24371	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24372	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, in my replica, I won't agree with my colleague Baranovic in the section where he said that this article 43rd negotiation and sub-concession only refers to the ports of nautical tourism. It is also applicable to all other concessions on the maritime good as visible under such provisions. So I wouldn't tie it just to those ports of nautical tourism because in my debate, I'm going to show how applicable it is at a shipyard that went bankrupt. And I think it was also the reason why this article was introduced in this form. And as for that question of yours, is there any citizen who wouldn't agree to any of the conditions you listed, etc. I am one of those who does not agree to it regardless of all the conditions that you have stated that should be fulfilled and that it should then be controlled because I am against the party sitting on our tolls. I know what that means. Compare the price of the toll outside with the price we have here in Croatia. No one will give 3 billion wanted euros to lose a billion or charge all three and more, and these are the basic facts. And the announcement I read that tomorrow the Government will replace the second administration of the Croatian highways in 9 months clearly speaks clearly enough about how we treat this public enterprise. There are basic problems and this law does not solve. As he did not solve what counterpart Richembergh said, he went to valorise investment and compensation for those who had a concession so far. This law doesn't solve it, and it's not good at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24373	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24374	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric, we may not have understood each other well. I cited the sub-concession activity of the distribution or trade in oil derivatives as an example. I absolutely agree with you that there are other ways of carrying out activities in the context of subconcession on the maritime good and there are squires, larger remonting shipyards. It is interesting, of course, that there are some activities of trade, services that may be the subject of subconcession and such cases within the large remonting shipyard. As for the right of citizens to have their own opinion, even when it comes to the HAC, of course you have the right to your own opinion. I wouldn't engage in speculation about why and what you're in. The numbers you were talking about are truly devastating are actually incomprehensible. And why is that and why Croatian highways are in a position to have such business results? I will refrain from commenting, and I will not be so mean as to tell the true truth about Croatian highways. Some other institutions, including the public and the media, were involved. We have also witnessed a series of affairs that are not subject to this law today, so we will not be burdened with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24375	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24376	... You are surprised from the first day when the first concession is not established a concession register. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I agree that would be good if it was done. So I am also also surprised that the Law on Tourism Land has been passed after the Ministry of Tourism or the Government adopted concession regulations on tourist land. To this year, although... deadlines have not been implemented any concessions and this law has been adopted primarily to enable new investment on land which is still socially owned and concessions have not been taken over by companies carrying out activities primarily tourism activity. And not only that, but I don't know how the Ministry of Finance as a Proposer or the Government dropped that law mentioned in these laws that must comply with the concession law, or that it is not mentioned at all, I don't know why this law is not mentioned that it is in conformity or that it needs to be harmonised. But anyway, he's not here at all. And the third thing I was going to say is the maritime good law. We have heard from so far debates and wonders that there are concessions on maritime goods that are not paid for years etc. Namely, this law will remind you was passed during the Ivica Racan coalition government. Something has changed in the past eight years, so it's still in those settings, and I think it's a relatively good law, and it needs to be changed given that some new circumstances have arisen, etc. but also the current law, and the concession agreements of the marinas, allow that if the marinas don't pay within 60 days, it seems to me that the contract can be broken. There are therefore legal provisions that all those who are messy pay and the concessionaries are both at sea and at the ports of tourist tourism. .../Speakers speak at the same time do not understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24377	Thank you very much. Replication response, Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24378	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, about tourist land and the Law on Tourist Land, I really don't know enough to answer your question. I honestly don't know, it's not a domain that's got my attention, and I don't tend to talk about something that I don't have an attitude or that elemental information about. As for the Law on Maritime Good, the issue of registers, so I think you agree with me that it was logical when we started concessioning and whatever government it was 15 or 20 years ago that it was necessary to establish records immediately and make that system transparent. I don't think there's anything important that's changed since then, generally looking at what's logical today wasn't logical back then. As for the non-payment of concessions, I am under the impression that regardless of the letter of the law, there is a primary responsible concession because whoever issued the concession should take care of the quality of payment in the future. And for this reason, damage has been done in the context of maritime goods at all levels because you know very well that the income from maritime goods, from concessions to maritime goods was divided into thirds and thus the damage had both the state budget and the county budgets and units of local self-government. I hope that the Ministry of Finance will work more up-to-date on the basis of now assumed powers and regulatory and responsibilities for monitoring and implementing the policy of concessions and concessions themselves, and that we will not engage in such situations in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24379	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24380	Dear counterpart Baranovic, I fully agree with most of your debate. You said we had to conduct a clean bill policy, then you said the public had a right to know and you wondered why we don't have a property register. So a country that's so much in charge of a country that has so many problems with the budget, a state that doesn't even know what it has, what it has. It's been a year, and I don't think there's any excuse anymore, we've only been for a year, there's something to be done, but it's not working. You asked one question in the end, that there are only two solutions or sell or concession. There's also a third, neither of them, to be held in possession. What happens when you concentrate on 30 or 50 years of highways and patch up budget holes, what happens then? How are you going to end your budget in two years, then pay your pensions? What you'll pay for when in a year you haven't created a framework for the start-up of the economy. So in a year we haven't created conditions to ensure the growth of the economy. We'll sell what the next government will, because you won't be 20 years old like HDZ hoped it would be 20, well 17 was, rule, don't give God, which I repeat to the next government when HDZ announced that the roads were in the concession you said was not entitled to in the name of the next generations. It wasn't a very different situation than it is today. There is therefore a colleague, Baranovic, and there is a possibility that in Croatian roads, in state-owned enterprises, we can set up capable, not similar people, to start an economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24381	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24382	Well, here's my esteemed colleague, Vuksic, and I'm going to go in line, and I've recorded this time very carefully, which is not exactly my standard to record on paper. The issue of the record, so I, in good faith and in this debate as an agent who cares about the interests of this country and for a more efficient and responsible management, have apostrophyd this problem and suggested that the gentlemen of the executive authority deal with this problem seriously. Not only for them, but for all those who actually master and behave in the duties that require the keeping of records and that things be done responsibly and transparently. From your question about the alternative to whether concessioning or selling, you said retaining property. I'm under the impression that you don't actually handle matter because concessioning is a retention of ownership, that's the essence of concessioning. What you make concessions under certain conditions with a certain charge for a certain time, and you keep it in your possession. What other form of capital he can have to invest, to take, to create jobs, other than concession or purchase. I don't know about the third. And as for creating conditions for changing the state of financial, social, economical state in a year after so much dubiosis, after so many problems, we don't underestimate ourselves as political or co-workers from the SDP or any other coalition partners, but I never felt like a superman, nor did I come to this Parliament from Krypton, I came from Sibenik, from Dalmatia, and you have to be realistic as a politician, as a responsible politician, I feel you as such and realistically setting things up. I think you've set things up a little unreal this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24383	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24384	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Baranovic, you said giving in the concession of HZ and highways, first of all, when it comes to highways I agree with what I said at the beginning, I think that the Croatian people gave too much to decide on any government and that there is certainly a need for a referendum there. As far as the railroads themselves are concerned, you've realized that I can't bring them, that they're in such a state that I can't make a profit. So there are no railways in the world that make profits, so neither can Croatian railways. For example, you have a very different relationship with the railways in Germany than the UK that gave its concessions, so after a few years they had to buy them out when they were completely devastated. In order to give anything in the concession at all, it must be remedied, it must be in good condition. After all, we've witnessed a few times that we've rescheduled some of our banks to sell them. Nor will the concession be taken from you if it is not immediately in a state of exploitation, if it cannot be used immediately. Unfortunately, the situation with Croatian railways is so that the part that is transiting it will not go into concession anyway, and the part that is not that part is almost unusable. And you said there was another way to respond to colleague Vuksic, who still has a third way. So the third way is to sell the thread, or give it in a concession, that simply if something is worth it to someone, someone takes a concession on something, then why isn't it worth it to us to use it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24385	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24386	My dear colleague, I'll start at the end. Who are we? Well, you don't expect the government to deal with all kinds of services, all kinds of production, exploitation. I am, though, the kind of intimate people who know me, they think I'm more like a left. I kind of got into liberals and I am liberal, but I'm left-handed. Well, maybe even intimately, in some parts, it would pass. But personal desires are one thing, and reality is something else entirely. It is quite clear that the state cannot, especially in these conditions in which it is today, deal with entrepreneurship. It's quite clear, and we're all talking about investment in some other debates, and when we need to create an investment framework, then let's get away from what's the measure of things. Germany as an example, so I wish we were in a state in which Germany is. But very likely four-fifths of the debate would be completely extravagant in this House of Commons, and we would probably have a lot less problems, or much easier to solve some of the current problems, but we didn't. And as for the devasting, or potential devasting, if we are to return to the concession there to responsibility, operationality, efficiency of those who are legally required to oversee the implementation of concession contracts, their possible violation and sanction it. And it's devastated today, so at least you who came from this world as a professional are aware that your colleagues are driving trains along devasted tracks, that the safety of the vast majority of cars and of the tow cars in railway traffic is questionable and that they actually carry their head in the bag, but not just their own, but sometimes, unfortunately, what has been shown from experience in Croatia, the tragic experience of people who use railway services. And it is clear to everyone who respects mathematics as a matter of fact that a financial person does not give space to the state at this point in time to do whatever is necessary. Therefore, concessions can be made, and we do not have to make concessions if other solutions are shown as possible. But let concessions as a completely legitimate and quality model be discussed in certain situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24387	Thank you very much. God of Calmeta, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24388	Well, colleague Baranovic, let's clear this up a little bit about the railroads. First, no one in Europe but Switzerland, of any railway in Europe other than Switzerland, is doing business at zero and what profit. Deutsche Bahn German subsidized him by the state. And all the other railways subsidized and even Hungarian where we have one plain and capital in the middle and where the minimum costs are. There's no such thing. I think these are the illusions that the railway will function with profits, especially in Croatia which is geographically and geographically the way it is. Look, I know here's an example of Zadar. Well, clearly, the track to Zadar is inert. Yeah, I'll tell you about Zadar, and there's as many as you want. And you ask the same question as the mail. Who used to talk about mail? Whether a country that has an obligation will provide public service, service some parts or islands. So Jadrolinija will never do business with profits, that the state must subsidise it so that all citizens in this Croatia wherever they live and not only in large cities have such public service. So, we're talking about now we're going to get somebody the railroad and we're going to sell it, we're going to make money. Oh, that, that, that's nothing. No one's gonna take that! In addition, the law says that rail infrastructure that is public good in general use that cannot be sold cannot be whole or concessioned but rather a direction. Also, passenger transport cannot be granted in a concession. No one's gonna take it first because no one's gonna drive to Zadar when there's no interest in it. Maybe they'll take what's most cost-effective. So is that worth it to us? So you can only give it some direction. What about Cargo? CARGO can be sold or a strategic partner can be found which would be easy if a strategic partner were found. Therefore, the problem of the railway is, not in the last 10 years 20, but in the last maybe 40 years, and it must be solved in a way that it is restructured. But to restructure the railroad without money, there's no way. No way! The last locomotives I don't know other than those tilt trains bought by Racan's government were bought 40 years ago, etc. etc. Therefore, they must be restructured and the money is gone So, I think I'm talking about that now she's gonna give it to someone in the concession, this one's gonna come, give a lot of money. [[Thank you very much.]] Well, I don't think that works. I mean, my colleague Baranovic doesn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24389	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24390	Thank you, dear colleague Calmeta. You're right, it's clear to everyone, and no one specifically tells or predicts any profitability of the railroads, and neither do I. However, I may have misrepresented myself. I allow it to be my fault, but you'll agree with me for sure that it doesn't matter whether or not we come up with a model in cooperation maybe eventually with some strategic partner who's going to make less losses. You will agree with me for sure that the current model, the current model, has produced more and more losses year after year that we haven't found it, and you, as a resolution minister, haven't been able to find an answer to the question of how to bring the railroad into the elemental acceptable state. In doing so, I have clearly not alluded to any individual responsibility, but I have found a condition that has been generated over the last few decades. The last few decades of railways have been atrophied and some of the things that have been happening in our near past have only further accelerated the process. And now we're here where we are. Does the state itself have an existing power management model to put railways on their feet? I personally doubt and think that we must use positive experiences from some other countries to look for models that will make this system less wasteful let's call it that. Because we don't care if we have to give subsidies to 200 million kunas or if we have to give a billion kunas a year. I think 800 million or 700 potential, 500, I'm saying by heart, is a very important factor in the overall finances of this country. And as far as Jadrolinia is concerned, it is in that part of the lineage that you know very well, and I also know as a man of sea and profession in many situations that private shipmen, non-ergent lines, have covered it with significantly less subsidies than the state has been prepared to do in Jadrolini.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24391	Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24392	Well, my colleague Baranovic, given the city you come from, I'm really surprised you don't know anything about the Tourist Land Act. So as you couldn't answer, maybe I could help you because there's no mention of the Law on Tourism Land anywhere in this law as a special law, why nobody's talking about it anymore, and why the state didn't take the compensation that it could take and charge under that law, and we're disgusted by your fellow party fears the riots that used to occur. Because if I remember the Minister of Tourism well in one of his opening speeches, the first thing he promised the hotelers and all of them in tourism to change that law or I don't remember exactly whether to abolish it, but it will change it anyway. So this is why nothing was done and why this year's tourism companies were paying for the state budget in the camps and the most valuable resources and the most valuable land in Croatia. But there's something else I wanted to replicate for you. You've advocated order in the area of concessioning. Of course, that's what we all stand for. You were very surprised about some previous mess. I ask why in these heres now 12 months is due under concessions 130 million, and the existing law also allowed the termination of concession contracts in the event of non-payment, so why didn't these contracts break because I assume that none of these debtors' contracts are broken. And it's not because of the boredom of the law, and this one is now repeating the same thing, which is, for example, that the contract can be unilaterally broken, and not that it has to be broken in case of messy payment, that this messy payment is completely unclearly determined and that the infringement provisions are only provided for by legal persons when they're authorized to grant concessions that for these state bodies of civil servants in state bodies there is not a very limited sanction if they don't monitor it, here I am reading the law, so I don't see maybe somewhere writing, so Article 47 is a huge corruption risk that is not elaborated in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24393	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24394	Dear fellow Lovrin, I said earlier that I came from Sibenik not from one planet that was as apostrophe as a planet of great people and I never claimed or felt that way as someone who knows everything. In Sibenik, I deal with many things as deputy mayor but with tourism my colleague Franco Vidovic dealt with, and then I did not make an obligation to get into details and to measure some things that don't touch me directly and which I don't do. So he could probably answer you from that mayor's position in Sibenik when it comes to tourist land much more quality. As far as this is concerned about the possible termination of the contract as a consequence of non-compliance with the concession contract, non-payment, compensation and other acts of the contract that may already be, I think it is a priority to colleagues from the executive authority. I am in my presentations and last time and now, and in some other debates, I have apostrophe that order should be introduced, and if you insist order should be introduced as I insist order be, then I think we agree. And the Minister of Tourism himself promised, of course, like other ministers and planned because ultimately with that ambition he entered the mandate to do some things, let the year be only a quarter of the mandate and that this mandate will show fully when someone was a successful minister or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24395	And the last replica, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24396	Dear colleague Baranovic, I listened carefully to your presentation on behalf of the HNS Club and of course I think that we agree in part that Croatia needs a concession strategy first of all and of course it cannot be something short-term and based on some short-term decisions, especially decisions when we have no choice. What I'd like to say is, you're probably from that area, so you know that in our submarine that there's a lot of power cables, telecommunications cables, have you ever wondered if that's what the concessions are about? I can understand until it was state property that it didn't have to be done but today T-HT is no longer state-owned. And the other thing I wanted to draw your attention to, a hundred years ago, was built in Pula by the first hydroplane. At the end of World War I, 300 hydroplanes flew the Adriatic coast, and for 4 years there has been a request for a concession for the entire hydroplane network throughout the Adriatic to connect the island and coast. I don't understand, and I can't understand why there's nothing to be done or someone in the D.O.D. thinks that this hydroplane can't land at a normal airport. What's it cost us? The risk of traffic and everything takes over the one who gets into this business we only get one offer that we don't have today, one relationship that we don't have today. Otherwise, I'm for all forms, not for or, or, but for all forms and rights of construction, and concession, and buying and retaining property, so we have to have a strategy of what we're going to do when we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24397	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24398	Dear fellow, the issue of hydroairn and I can't really answer the question of why it stands for four years, the answer would probably get quality from the rest of the ministry, as a man from the sea who spent some 20 and a few years at sea in direct contact with the island's population testifying to the nature and intensity of economic activities and specificity of the economy in those areas, I find this idea of hydroplanes very interesting, if there are interested companies that would seek and result in concessions and thus improve the island's contact with the mainland why not, but the answer indeed as a representative in the Croatian Parliament cannot give you. I can only send a letter with solidarity with the inquiry of the Secretary of Resor. As regards the laying of sub-sea cables and pipelines, two types are laid down, i.e. three types, energy cables, telecommunications cables are laid down, and the pipelines are laid down on those islands which are fortunate to have the proximity of land and the possibility to deliver, i.e. supply of drinking water, the issue of telecommunications cables has been resolved and the telecommunications services have been resolved by a special law governing this type of service, and I do not think that this type of service is within the concession law, although I personally am not very clear as to why, but probably legislators or legislators have their reasons, and as regards the pipeline for supply of drinking water and energy cables, I believe that this is the category of the right of service and that it has been dealt with when such infrastructure facilities were worked, or when projects, and when such infrastructure projects were implemented, and when such projects were carried out, I assume that this is ensured in the outcome of the location of the construction system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24399	It's the HDZ Club, and colleague Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24400	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So look at your colleagues and colleagues, you're here all the time talking about introducing... Now, if I were to ask you one question, if it wasn't for the concession register, if it wasn't for the OIB, if it wasn't for that order of accounting in the tax administration, could you talk about the list of taxpayers, could we talk in this way today about the number of concessions and everything expensive, but when we talk about concessions I think we went a little bit into the discussion in the clouds, we won't want to, we don't want to go down to real life, and we don't want to discuss all those bad things that have been noticed in the last period, and we can say 90% of Croatian citizens in one way or another, and when we try to bring it down into everyday life, then you'll see that we're in a series of problems, and now I don't want to protect ourselves in front of everything from the European Ministry of Finance, and when we see all those poor things that there's only one thing in a very good sense that there's one thing. [[You don't understand.]] But before I move on to that part, I want to clearly repeat on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club our position on the monetization of Croatian highways, and as far as concessions on rail infrastructure are concerned, we are against this, we have reached a conclusion on the first reading, we are now going with the amendment to the second reading, and I sincerely hope that the government, the ruling Kukuriku coalition will accept this amendment for the reasons that this is one of the very important laws and it would be very good to bring to the Croatian Assembly with one great majority of votes. So we propose that the article 1 behind paragraph 8. which should read all the questions related to concessions on highways, rail infrastructure is governed by a special law, and then when we discuss this law we can seek a referendum, we can state that we are against monetization, so we can state our opinion, but we simply want to say that one of these laws that solves the question of concessions must not be allowed to deal with the issue of circular infrastructure projects, at the end of Croatia highways were both micro, and macro, one big locomotive that has kept us as much as this year on water, whether the head was a little underwater, or under water, but the question is whether the tourist season would be about this kind of highways not made. Now that I'm talking about highways, colleagues and colleagues we have two directions that are in the concession, one is... Istria, the second is this direction from Zagreb to Macelj. [[You don't understand.]] Now you're asking a realistic one question that... The conditions as good, bad as they are, to be discussed, in Istria were made in road infrastructure what was made that was not such a situation, we have a concession society founded by the Croatian state, the Zagreb-Rijeka highway is a concession society, it is not... [[You don't understand.]] company, and now we have this basic direction of Bregan, Zagreb, Lipovac or Biokovo, however you will, and on the other hand this part down to Ploč, so up to... [[You don't understand.]] whether or not you should go to a concession. [[You don't understand.]] Given its micro effect, on the economic development of Like, the Dalmatian Burns, we can even talk about that even people who have escaped from these areas are somehow coming back because of what was done. We do not think we will talk about a referendum on this, what we will begin to satisfy will be satisfied that the law imposes an obligation that the issue of concessions of highways and railway infrastructure cannot be resolved without a special law. So that's the HDZ Club's position completely clear and... we're not saying that we're for a highway concession like some of us wanted to prescribe. We are simply asking that a special law be reached with a wide discussion both in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian public. And when we talk about this law on concessions, colleagues said something about tourist land. You see neither the previous government nor this one for various reasons will come to a very difficult solution. And now look at the government that took the May 3rd Shipyard for a complete maritime good for what reason it is now talking about how it will address the issue of concessions and maritime goods. And in the end, and these nine billion that have now taken over the state for shipyards is a compensation for maritime well-being and for what they have done in recent years for marine good. It's simply a matter of saying and it's facts that you don't run away from. Because now this law, if we look at it as a future source of income and units of local self-government and income of the state budget, because under this law income in the state budget in a year, two will be over one billion kuna in concessions. When the marine good and other things are involved, we will certainly be able to talk about several billion kunas in some future times. Also local self-government units. But when we talk about concessions, then we have to ask the question of what the concessions are dealing with in principle with those who have debts, let's not talk to us because we only exist for 20 years. What have many countries solved with concessions? Let's get some Arab oil. They solved their problem by exploiting what they had, having neither the knowledge nor the technology, but they concluded concession agreements with which they had great protection and they benefited from it. And don't worry, not a single oil company that in Arab countries is extracting oil has gone personally that fat, fat doesn't pay... but makes a fat living. Take the INA in Syria this oil find one well that along with the Syrian company has INA's INA's at the moment when there was full exploitation that there was no riot in Syria bringing $60 million a month of clean money. And some of the other political options thought a few years ago about selling that site to someone. Some, however, had a more firm head than they thought, so they managed not to sell that Syria. And tomorrow when he comes back that concession contract INA's no one can take and the INA will have 60 million dollars again on that basis. So when we think about what to give in the concession today, too, surely many units of local self-government will think about how to give certain jobs for the standard to their citizens in a concession. But what do we have to look after then? That citizens have a good service and it's not too expensive. And now you're asking a basic question today that citizens are paying a municipal contribution to the construction of the house but they're paying it to the businessmen, you're paying the connection, and tomorrow some concessionaire will come to you for what you've done and sell you water at some price. This law doesn't solve it here. Now some local power man can sign a contract like that. Why do I say local power? I was here in the assembly while I was a minister several times talking about sending dozens of calls to both the mayors and the mayors to send us a concession contract because they wouldn't send us. Individual administrations, according to the ministries, ordered their respective ministers to send contracts, refused to send them. Now, that's that real-life concession contract. It doesn't matter if someone's going to open a tender tomorrow for a water supply in your city to run some kind of company, so they charge you 15 or 20 kuna water or they'll take into account everything these citizens have done through taxes through municipal contributions and through the payment of connections and code... for the development of these waternets all these many years invested in that part. It's something to be very careful about the provisions of certain lex specialis laws when we talk about concessions. Channeling, purgatory. I'll give you an example of the Great Gora. A large future water supply resort received a county company and look they say not you in Gorica have the right to have property in the company. And the city's full concern about environmental protection pays for its citizens. These citizens around can't build houses, they can't deal with intensive agriculture because they can't use pesticides. Now, if someone were to pay the town of Velika Gorica adequately by taking that water, and you have cities like Velika Gorica as much as you want in Croatia, then the city could in a certain way help these citizens and damage them in a certain way to make an impermeable sewer and allow these people to live normally. Or gravel. Take a look at the budgets of local self-government units as much as the base of gravel incomes from Kuna? Neglect. 50 times more money is spent to resuscitate roads than gravel money is coming. Look at Big Gorica lying on the gravel. Sava has an island there near Ivanje Reka, however, for the construction of the Zagreb-Sisak highway because someone uses the Law on Croatian Waters must drive material 100km away. Wouldn't it be much cheaper to get rid of it here and make that road cheaper? So we can ask ourselves colleagues and colleagues a series of such questions or one question that will affect all those who do not have gas, and those who do not have a complete network. It is likely that some companies will call for a concession to, say, supply Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Sibenik from this master gas pipeline that is going down. That gas pipeline was built by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so it was built by Plinarro. Tomorrow someone will be able to sell gas from that pipeline to citizens of these cities, however, the question arises if the price of gas is too high no one will want to join it. And it's not here, but it needs to be dealt with by some other laws. We must not allow the concession law to rob Croatia's citizens in a certain way tomorrow because you must drink water, you must have a drain of fecal sewers, you must warm yourself with something if your oil is too expensive, if your electricity is too expensive, and the gas is still the cheapest, if someone charges you above some level, then you will normally not be able to warm up, and this is all solved by this contract. Look how empty this assembly is tonight, like we're discussing something that's totally benign. counterpart Baranovic said about the prices, in fact, no, counterpart Beus spoke as president of the Assembly Committee on Tourism probably in that function about how much the marina pays per square metre. It's also a question, but the question is, who did it, when he made the deal, and who invested in building that marina. It's that valorisation as much as anyone needs to pay for something. Because look, if someone comes to the stone and does something to hire dozens or hundreds of people, where Croatia will become very interesting, where the boaters will come to spend it, then it should be valorised anyway. Let us not look at how much anyone pays per square metre but at what service he offers on the basis of this concession. But we love political bickering, so we throw mud into each other's cheeks, and unfortunately, mud in the cheeks gets Croatian citizens, and that's the biggest tragedy. That's why colleagues and colleagues, so I know as the minister of the former who had problems with my colleagues and I at the Ministry of Finance when we started at all with the idea of establishing a concession register... of various interest groups. Because look, the moment this whole thing is settled, the time will come and the data from that register will be made public. Someone was in the way of that, obviously. In every possible and impossible way, it was challenged. Today, however, you have a register containing 14400 contracts that can show you a number of irregularities and good things in concession contracts both small units of local self-government and state and which will probably tomorrow, with a more detailed analysis, offer changes to this law. As one experienced lawyer, Lovrin observed all the shortcomings and generality of Article 47. Well, look, if you gave someone a concession, if he doesn't pay you three or four or five months, then there's no God that you don't break his concession contract and do business with someone else. However, the question arises why someone has not done so, and there is no more politics present, there is the presence of honesty and dishonesty of colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, as in the first reading on behalf of the HDZ Club, therefore, we support the fundamental changes to the law, we believe that through certain analyses it will soon experience certain changes. My colleagues will talk about some specifics that are far closer to them, and in 15 minutes it is impossible to talk about everything. I've only tried to bring this law down to real life about some segments. And I repeat, the HDZ Club conditioned the support of this law that, it does not matter if it is in Article 1, Article 5, Article 9, but to clearly indicate that any privatisation, concession of highways and railway infrastructure must be regulated by a special law. If this is not so regrettable, we will not be able to support this law, although we agree with most of the provisions, but I repeat this law should have all been offered to think because it can ultimately cost Croatian citizens very, very, very expensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24401	Replica has a colleague, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24402	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would also like to thank you, fellow Shuker, for contributing to this debate, in particular to commenting on the situation in the assembly on the debate on this important law. Potential giving in the concession of part of Croatian roads or part of Croatian railways we discuss not 10% but 20% or more of the Croatian annual budget. It's not worth having a different discussion with. Madam Vice President, if there is no other way to end the debate and proceed tomorrow. And what I'd like to say about my colleague Shucker's exposure. I agree with everything except the technical aspect of your proposal for a special law. We at the SDSS Club and I personally think that there is a more universal and more appropriate way of democracy, which is that concessions and a plan for the availability of concessions and for Croatian roads, possibly for Croatian railways, but also for other important goods both at the state level and at the level of units of local self-government must be certified by representative bodies. That seems more appropriate to me. It is about large funds and it is about a more significant control mechanism that, with what we have and what is guaranteed and secured by law, but I think it would be important for the proposal for a concession contract to come to the Assembly before the signing and that the plan for spending concession funds comes to the Parliament. It is too much of a large and serious resource to be entrusted only to what can be considered a plan or assessment of the government at a given time. And for that reason, I think it would be for the purpose of what you actually want, and this was more appropriate to strengthen supervision to be empowered not to negotiate but to final contract and way of spending resources to representative bodies, including this Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24403	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24404	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Tonight's debate on amendments to the state budget clearly indicates that privatisation of highways, infrastructure must not go without a special law. This House must lay down the conditions under which one responsible for the execution of something will call for a tender, select consultants and do a certain job. Why? Because the problem of Croatian highways at the moment is a great responsibility. Another thing about about a billion and 400 kunas are being paid through 60 limes. The finance minister has already announced that he would transfer these 60 limes to the construction of Croatian railways and a number of other things. And don't believe that we're going to get a lot of money in the budget by prescribing some kind of highway concession. It's an ugly delusion. But that's why all the conditions under which it would possibly be done even though we're against it we want to be in a law that will discuss this House of Commons. Because if you don't set someone a frame in which they can move, they'll come to you with a proposal and they'll tell us we couldn't do any different and better. Everyone forgot that by 2002 law, someone made a decision that Croatia should not have more than 25% of INA when joining the EU. That's what everyone forgot. It's the INA Privatisation Act. In 2002, a colleague of Pupovac was brought into this House in 2001. Look, you'll see. Go to the website, look. The INA and HEP privatisation law. You have in the old Privatisation Act it was stated that large state-owned enterprises must be determined by a special law by their privatisation. You have the INA Privatisation Act and the HEP Privatisation Act. See how much the Croatian state can have at the time of EU entry and then let's charge ourselves politically as much as we want. And for all possible insubordinations who made them, let them answer for them. Just let her look at the law. And that's why I propose on behalf of the club and I ask the other colleagues for dignity, for the sake of Croatian citizens. who pay each year billions and 400 in Croatia highways to solve this problem with a special law. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24405	Thank you very much, dear colleague. And I suggest you read the INA Privatisation Act. It says there you can't sell 25 plus. ... No, it was an amendment just to your club. [[You can't hear it.]] Look at the law. And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24406	Dear colleague Shuker, you mentioned concessions to the waternets. Let's say from the experience of some Western European cities, for example in Great Britain and Germany, it was their big mistake and the wrong move. Many cities gave a water network concession, then experienced a devastation of the network. Citizens began to pay for water several times more expensive, and now these cities are struggling to return to ownership and re-management of these cities. The water line, the city owns the water. No one's gonna take in a concession but nothing that doesn't make a profit. It's a delusion, it's a delusion, and that's what Mr. Calmeta used to say. First of all, if I repeat myself to someone, it's worth something to do, why isn't it worth our while? The type or character of ownership does not guarantee, guarantee or determine performance or failure. There's nowhere in the world. That's when Scandinavian states that have the most state property would fail, which is not true that they're failing. A sign of equality is not placed between private and successful and between private and good. But that proves exactly our economy. How many private companies have failed? How many private workers were driven out into the street, how many robberies were committed during the privatisation? Therefore, we are now saying that we only have two options or concessions or sales. No, we have the opportunity to keep our property and to manage it, not concession. Concession is another robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24407	Thank you. The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24408	My colleague Vuksic, I must say that you've replicated someone else not to me, because what you've replicated to me, I haven't said at any time in my debate. I have warned, however, that this Law on concessions will entangle more than 90% of Croatian citizens and I have tried to bring real life down just by warning problems. But the concession is basically when you don't have the money to do anything, you give someone who has money, not to gain property, but to have money to do it. That's it, but it's pulling a series of dangers behind it, and that's why, as far as the highway goes, we insist that lex specialis by law get rid of it. But I'm telling you on the basis of the experience that I saw when we started collecting concession contracts that various management leaders, various different mayors, the mayors signed. That's what I'm talking about, colleague Vuksic. And you can't if you choose to give him the right. He'll sign the contract, you can fuck. And you have a case in Russia when Putin changed those laws to have these heads of their provinces elected in the local elections, so he abolished it after the head of one such province signed a contract with the Japanese for a hundred years with a fishing concession for some small couple of million dollars, and the estimate that these over the 90 years would over 100 billion catch fish. Afterwards he replaced him and a changed decision was made that no one, in fact, could choose them more than to appoint them. I'm just giving you an example. And unfortunately, there's nothing you can do for the locals. He can do whatever he wants and you can fuck as a political party. He's doing his thing. He has such powers and good-bye. What we're saying is that the council has to make a decision for over a million kuna is asking whether this million kuna is the value of what goes into the concession or the value of the monthly concession fee. But that's exactly why I said it's sad that we're not here anymore, and that this law can certainly tang in a negative sense a lot of Croatian citizens, and there is a responsibility for us to try to prevent it. So my debate went in that context.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24409	HDSSB club and colleague Igor Chešek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24410	Dear Vice-President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on concessions. It is technically more sophisticated than the First Reading Law proposal, it is evident that certain items are in line with European regulations, but what I agree with my colleague Schuker that the consequences of this law will be absolutely negative for the population of the Republic of Croatia. There are good solutions in the law. What does the Proposer intend to achieve by this bill? The Proposer notes that this proposal for a Law on concessions introduces solutions that carry a number of flexibility, simpler treatment in the award of concessions for the economic use of general or other goods or concessions of less value. This proposal clearly provides for the rights and obligations of concessionors and concessionaires, but also gives the Ministry of Finance a stronger role in controlling the payment of concessions because we are familiar with the ministry's data that the debt of concessionaires towards the state is 214.9 million kuna, which is not insignificant and the finance minister certainly wants to patch up his budget deficits with this debt. And I'm sure he'll do anything to charge that debt as soon as possible to show his successful leadership of the ministry. Furthermore, the Proposer notes that the key instrument of concession policy is the Register of concessions as a single database of all concessions in the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of which it allows for stronger monitoring and supervision of all concessionaries, and with this regard to activities to improve the implementation of the active concession policy. I sincerely hope that this registry will give real insight and relevant information on the concessions issued because, for example, the answers to the concessions on the economic use of water from the two ministries say that the state does not have the correct information to which it has all given public good. Thus, the Ministry of Agriculture has the information that they have awarded 835 contracts for the use of water of which is currently in force 682 while the Ministry of Finance, based on its insight into the register, says that 904 concessions have been awarded for the use of water of which 823 are valid. The fact is that countless times the state has proved to be a bad master and we have to assume that in most cases concessionaires are better managers of concession goods than the state, but we must also not forget those who only unscrupulously destroy public good and only in their own interest. In such cases penalties must be dragonous, and the State shall do everything to prevent such damage to all its institutions through inspection and expert supervision. In no way can we allow one person to destroy what generations ahead of us have created and protected. Like the INA case. Croatia's entry into the EU will bring together countless European entrepreneurs who will want to take public good in the concession. The freshest case is with Croatian highways. Here is a specific consultant for the concessions of Croatian highways. In the HDSSB, too, we are opposed to giving Croatian highways in concessions because what is worth, what is profit should not be given in concessions, and what is ultimately not profitable and what does not bring profit will ultimately not be taken by anyone in the concession, it is clear to all of us. It is clear to all of us that Croatian railways that are not profitable, I am specifically talking about Virovitica-Osjek railway which is before closing, so no one will take it into concession, she is a loser. So, what are we gonna do? Take 2.5.3 billion euros from the highway concession and pump the same money into railways so that these same railways can be put into a concession later. So we've achieved nothing. What about the wealth of Croatian forests? Article 5 of this Act provides for what can be given in a concession. In fact, this article 5 states that all living in Croatia can go to concessions other than forests. However, as necessary, this article can be easily amended as well. Are we aware of the mistakes we can make for the future? In the absence of money, I'm afraid the woods might end up in a concession. Same as exploiting the source water? We have enough for our own needs, but the predictions are that in the future wars will be waged not for oil but for water. If we put all the water in the concession and export it out, I'm afraid we'll be out of those resources real quick. I have to connect to my colleague Djakic's replica, he's not here, he mentioned the absurdity of extracting gravel and sand. Yes, I read about how we import gravel and sand from Republika Srpska, we can't take it out on Savi and they can. And to make it a better thing, they, with their mechanism, reach our shores and pull that gravel and sand to load on their warehouses and across the border into the Republic of Croatia. That's what's really sad and I don't know why it still doesn't end. From all this I say the law has good items, the HDSSB club will be abstentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24411	You're up a little late. Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24412	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, before everything I really am, I didn't expect to shorten my colleague's speech so much that with a little delay, I raised it, but there was still a deadline because you were also sheltered by the shoulders of our Czech Republic and you didn't see it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24413	And maybe this is how I see right through your fingers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24414	Okay, thank you very much. Here we go again. In fact, a colleague of the Czech Republic, taught by experience and the practice of giving concessions and everything that is going on around it, starting with a register and through an unfair relationship to the concession of that concessionary, is difficult to believe that the practice will therefore be much better in the future. No concessionaire goes to a concession to make his own losses. He's going to win. Now a question is raised, as fellow Vuksic said, so why can't we use our wealth, our treasure. So, instead, we have to give it to someone else to show that it can successfully do what I know about Croatian waters or anything else. So you see a concessionaire to do the job successfully he will certainly raise the price or this government will not dare do so to do business positive or leave it to others to peel this people instead of this government itself who has already made a lot of money and taxes, by increasing VAT, by increasing the price of energy and all that gas, electricity, water has nothing to eat, food etc., food prices. So, if really questionable, for what it's all about, it's actually about one thing to say about the English total hall now, the total sale. After a decision on the sale of the Croatian Post Office, Croatia insurance as profits, so why are we selling profitable companies, I don't understand. If the non-profits are going to the concession. Which is exactly what makes it the worst, and that's the sale. What are we selling positive for? ... /Intruder:Thank you/ [[The speaker doesn't understand, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24415	Thank you very much. Replication response. Igor Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24416	That my colleague Grubisic, I absolutely agree with everything you've put forward except for one fact, and you said the government has no courage to raise prices. The Government has the courage to raise prices, here we can see that since 01.01 train tickets in the Croatian Railways are collected by 15%. Is it because of the indemnity of the Croatian Railways, or is this how the collection wants to show a certain profit of the Croatian Railways in order to go as easily as possible in the concession, or whether or not we want to fool the concessionaire with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24417	We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line is colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24418	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. About the law itself and some details within the law, he spoke on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club – Liberal Democrats, counterpart Petar Baranovic, and I fully agree with this exhibition. I would add that I personally consider it extremely special that it is an extremely important and efficient way and form of modern management, management through concessions. And I'm deeply convinced of that. Croatia has experience in concession bargaining. There are good experiences and bad experiences. Wherever the central or local, active and from the right position was held, it included both the negotiation and the control of the realization of such a contractual relationship of concessions proved to be a successful form of management and the development of economic activities. Let me say yes, my colleague mentioned Article 5 earlier and I read everything in the law, to what concessions can be given, which this vast area and potential for management and development. For research, or exploitation of mineral raw materials, for the use of water, for the right to hunt on national hunting grounds and for game growing sites, for marine good, for certain activities within protected areas of nature and for the use of other protected natural values from speleological objects. In the area of energy for the operation of linear and coastal river transport, for ports, for public roads, for public transport, for airports, for sports, for cultural goods, for municipal activities in the field of public water services, in the area of railways, in the area of cableways, for waste management activities, in the field of tourism, and in the field of health. It is a huge range of activities that can come under concession and therefore is terribly important, but it can also be a very modern way of managing, and it can be and is usually and very efficient. It is important that concessions are considered exclusively with a very momentous planning of development of a significantly wider area than only the area of concession, regardless of which area or activity it is concerned. The concession must serve overall development and general good, only then is it profitable for society. The concession agreements must always be so-called. win-win combination of contracts where everyone gets both concessionary and so on. a wide social community. Where contracts are written sloppyly, unprofessionally and sometimes with completely false and immoral intentions, such concession contracts become a burden and damage to both the local community and the central state, society as a whole. As an example of poor management of concession goods, I would like to highlight the concession on the maritime good port of Sibenik. Sibenik, by my deep conviction, is one of the most beautiful cities in the Adriatic, and thus one of the most beautiful cities in the world. It is situated in an indescribably beautifully divorced bay, the mouth of Krka, and the magical canal leads to the sea with small islands. In this unique environment, the medieval Sibenik was embellished by a hilly divorce with four fortresses and with the pearl of world architecture of the cathedral of St. Jacob. The city... He destroyed the former Yugoslavia by threatening the heavy industry in the immediate vicinity, but during that period he created work and strengthened the civil class that held the city's cultural heritage. [[You don't understand.]] At this time was founded today by a unique summer festival of children, which gives a special stamp and cultural identity to Sibenik. After the Homeland War with all the negative consequences of the destruction of Sibenik and its hinterland with violent conversion, criminal privatisation destroying the heavy industry. Yet an opportunity was created for Sibenik to be the greatest pearl of Croatian tourist offer. According to my basic belief, one of the conditions is that this would achieve the overall developmental arrangement of the Sibenik City Port, including the concession on the reception of boats and yachts in the part of the port in front of or below the old city. The concession exists, but I believe it is completely wrong, without an idea obviously without the desire for concession work to serve its purpose and this is a modern development of the entire environment in this case of the Old City of Sibenik, it was agreed in 2000 and the signed concession with the AnK Komerce Company. Regardless of the legal obstacles to the development of the concession contract, it is not broken but is in a standstill. At the end of August 2002, the Economic Inspectorate's Economic Inspectorate decided to ban the provision of tourism services in... tourism in the company which it instructed the competent authority to request minimum conditions for the port of special purposes of nautical tourism. Such a solution is legally unfounded precisely because the City Port of Sibenik is not a port of special purpose, the port of nautical tourism is already open for public transport according to the provisions of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links of '96, and its limits are established by the decision of the county headship. The company ANK Komerc received a concession in a public tender for the berth and transport of ships yachts, fishing boats, sports and other boats on board passengers and providing services to passengers and setting up pontons and cylinders. These services are as well as the provision of water and their collection... so you can't talk about providing tourist services in nautical tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the quick reading.]] This solution of the State Inspectorate would be valid if the City Port of Sibenik were classified under the Law on Maritime Ports in ports of nautical tourism, but it is not, and it is not, the basic catch which is why this dispute is still in the Administrative Court. Meanwhile, the NK Komerce, while its concession is in a state of pension, is carrying out the same activities for the port administration and at the loss is not only the state that remains without half the VAT amount, since the port administration is not a taxpayer of value added tax but I am a concessionist and most of the entire town of Sibenik. In my personal opinion, for years the city of Sibenik has not used 10% of its economic potential from crafts, tourist catering, tourist hotels, cultural and commercial and entertainment industries. One of the major engines could also be the redesign of the city's port of Sibenik at the port of nautical tourism. With the concept of management and one whole space in this case, the City Port of Sibenik means extending the management and other areas of the city's development of one city in this case Sibenik changes the full philosophy of development and development of the concession in one of the smaller areas of space in the given gauges. In this respect, a broader contract on concessions can be a generator for the development of a significantly wider area and that is the only way to serve concessions. Without development, modernising a wide range of areas to which the concession is given, the concession makes no sense. This was just one example of how no concessions should be managed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24419	Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24420	My colleague Blažeković made this concession a procession for Sibenik, so unfortunately this is the case. So the concession became a procession. But it's a symptomatic fellow Blazekovic here's what Mr. Pupovac said, so it goes that so few people here are for such an important matter from the state and the people's interest to say and it's more symptomatic that from day to day these important questions for citizens and the state come to the agenda of the Assembly's session in these late afternoon hours when it's supposed to count on fatigue material. Instead of discussing this in the morning, so that the citizens can hear what the clubs think and the representatives and concessions that life means for Croatia and for the future of Croatia, we discussed today not to mention irrelevant issues from a set of judicial and judicial laws. That's what I really don't say pain and eyelashes. And this Sibenik and the example is not the only example of it you have as much as you want from this Sava gravel and sand to your Sibenik, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24421	We're continuing an individual debate. A fellow goddess of Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24422	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague Grubisic agrees with you and I wish this was this morning and I think it would have been better this morning for a number of reasons, not just because we have to be here more tonight, that's our job. Well, yes, I think that this topic is really interesting and that here today, tonight, it could hear really very constructive and good discussions on this one law that you have heard from colleagues of Shucker against whom HDZ is not because we believe that this law is one law that will open new revenues in the state budget, and we all need new revenues in the state budget, but with that amendment that the HDZ club has submitted, which is when debated and decided not to repeat everything that my colleague Schuker said about possible concessions on highways, I don't know or parts of the railways, etc. to get rid of it with a special law. Well, then I won't be opening the subject tonight, although I could speak as clearly as anyone else about it and say my opinion. I hope there's a chance when it's governed by a special law. I have some concrete proposals actually to improve certain articles but perhaps before that a few sentences. The purpose of this law is, as it says, that it solves the narrow throats that it has really been in the case of concessions and some ambiguities on the one hand, and on the other hand the pain of controlling concessions and charging concessions at all levels because these are revenues as I said before from the State budget, but these are also the revenues of the local self-government units that are also struggling with their budgets and their budgets in these times of crisis, crisis and recession. Therefore, it is unquestionable and in this sense it is good that this law is passed and that it will resolve some ambiguities, that it will be a catalyst of these certain processes when it comes to concessioning, and then finally, more income in the State budget and the budget of those units of local self-government. Of course, this should result in one new quality of services that the citizens have so far had, so it was not good or not at all, so they will have in the future. Because we have good examples of concessioning, but all these examples were actually, it wasn't giving something in the existing concession, but it was, it was new, it was concessions on some new objects, e.g. The Istrian ispsion where it was then in a difficult time for Croatia, so right after the war the French concessionist won that concession and very successfully this highway was first Danube, first of all, I apologize, first of all, the semi-profile highway is now full of the profile of the highway in the same city. And the question is, would Istra have gotten the freeway if it hadn't been for that concessionary? Hence, we have good examples. We have good examples on the Adriatic, such as concessioning tuna farming. Now it's clear that someone's asking a question was better off if those cages didn't. Well, clearly, it would be better if they weren't there. This is not questionable to make it better and better, but the question is, I think you need something to live on, to create some income, to open up some new jobs so that these grow sites and create new jobs, and that is one product that is in any case almost 100% exported, which is again for a whole series of reasons good. So we have such good examples of concessions, but I say they were just all new, let's say we give in a concession to build some new stock of something or to build some kind of new farm or to build etc., etc. So you should watch it on that side too. But now something a little bit concrete about this law. That's why I called the most. In Article 14, is this Article 14? Yeah. This is about the simultaneous appointment of the commission, etc., etc. I think a provision like this, if I get her right, I don't know. It explicitly excludes the possibility of appointing one expert commission for the same types of concessions. I mean, concessions on marine well-being, unless they're given at the same time. I think this will unnecessarily extend the concession procedure, but I repeat if I have understood what it says in Article 14, paragraph 1 and paragraph 7. In Article 19, I think there is a much better solution, which is to leave the possibility of applying one legal norm based on selection and through one special law to be found to be general, that the general content of the concession provision, the economic use of general and other goods, that they may be closer regulated by a special law and, if they are to be amended or adopted by a new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports and will, we have such knowledge that there will be a new law, that it should be brought into line with the Law on concessions. In Article 24, where the opening of concession offers is concerned, i.e. the decision to annul the concession procedure or to refuse a solution, etc., etc. In most concession procedures in the maritime good in accordance with the Law on Maritime Good and Sea Ports, such a decision, i.e. the grantor of the concession, is the County Assembly. It could also be the city council and community council. So a solution that rejects a bad offer is made by the County Assembly. The County Assembly is, as we all know together, a representative body and, in general, a bad solution is to place such a body in charge of the adoption of individual acts because it can happen, for example. in practice, that councilors do not vote on such a solution and vote in favour of a decision on the award of a concession. I think it's good in Article 29 that the Ministry of Finance is involved in everything and that the Ministry of Finance will oversee all these concessions. I think it's good and that Article 29 is good, just maybe you should, maybe you should make sure that it's not a narrow throat, that's the requirements of the sea, the sea, and that's what my colleague Schuker was talking about before. The Ministry of Finance must therefore be involved and the opinion of the Ministry of Finance must be sought but some in the field, counties, cities etc., etc., are afraid that it might not be a narrow throat in the concession procedure. In Article 40, this is also mainly about the transfer of concessions. This bill does not seem to recognise the transfer of concessions except in the case of a merger, i.e. the accession of a company and the achievement of the assurance of the rights of the creditors. The Law on maritime good and seaports provides for the possibility of transferring concessions to a new concessionaire under the same conditions from organisational, financial, I don't know or any other technical reasons, and if a concessionaire is changed under the same conditions and at the request of a former or old concessionaire. There's no reason to make it impossible. So that's a question that Article 40 regulates. And the question of subconcession is Article 43. I believe that the definition of secondary activity as an activity other than the activity of the concession object should be excluded from paragraph 2 because some concessions are given to carry out more activities, such as sports-recreation on the beach and it is logical that one or more can be given in a sub-concession if most of the activities are carried out by a concessionary. In general, several places are subject to a specific action only if such an action has been envisaged with a study of the justification of giving something in the concession, the documentation for competition, notices of the purpose of granting a concession, and a concession contract within which it can be granted. As if, I mean, it's hard to predict it all together because it's not all predictable and it's not all uniform. And I think item 7 in this bill I think he's, well, now he's not even that important. Here's some more, but I've brought the end. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Bring an end to the debate.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24423	Write an amendment. Replica, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24424	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Shuker, pardon my colleague Kalmeta, you spoke very affirmatively, so on the final proposal of the Law on concessions and as a representative, so the ruling option I think I completely agree with you. But for eight years you've been Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, I think that's what it was called then, and you haven't made the most needed action that you should have done, and that's that you should have changed the concession regulation on the marine good. I personally wrote to you Mr. Calmeta three times to amend that regulation. No port of nautical tourism on the Adriatic has been built for your term of office. Why? Because it was a bad regulation. The regulation favoured speculators who knew that a tender for a certain port of nautical tourism would be opened before the invitation to tender. We would then start companies and, for example, specifically on the case of Tisno, which you know very well, that for 20 years we have failed to work the marina. In the last three years, three repeated tenders. So they'd charge for, uh, concession fee so they'd put 25%. That's what speculant companies did. While an ACI would put that same fee on three and a half percent. And then what happened. Normally, ACI would fall out of the game because you couldn't compete. That company would get that concession and tomorrow, in five days, it would sell ACI to its concession. That's what it was. And now on July 19th, I think it was in the government, so that the regulation was amended, so that income from the regular activity in the previous year was taken as a percentage to decide on the award of concession and the experience of the bidders in carrying out the activities for which the concession is sought. So 10% has been introduced. Now, Mr. Kalmeta, you should have done that while you were a minister and I believe you would have built a lot more ports of nautical tourism than we've built in the last 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24425	Thank you. The answer to the replica, God of Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24426	We, it was made, made the port of nautical tourism. That's not exactly what you're saying it wasn't done. And I don't know the regulation. I don't know the regulation we made, the regulation was good for us, and for what else you're saying I don't know about some kind of, I don't know examples I don't know. At least I wasn't familiar with it. But after me, Branko Bacic will tell you, so you can replicate to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24427	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24428	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know what to say either. We turned into a parlage here at these late hours every day. Unfortunately, because I think that interest, and the President of the Parliament will say several times that we are here to represent the public interest. I'm afraid this is the way we do it. There are 10% of us here from the total number of MPs, and the topic is not significant, the topic is very important and I think that for this power even the opportunity to, this is the only option where you don't have to burden all citizens, and you can get a lot of revenue in the budget. Unfortunately, however, this bill has obviously failed to respond to all the traps that the law, which the concession may have as one process or process. Although I will begin by commending this report that the Parliament asked for. And I say, it's a great honor to the Ministry of Finance that it has united finally in one material the entire history of concessioning in Croatia with good data, solid data. So we see that they've been processed in detail and income and debt and contract numbers, and the whole history of how it went. And I think that same history review is saying that there is no claim by ruling that nothing has been done before. It was working. We had a concession law that was passed in 2008. Even the procedure was good, two readings, good system analysis. A really good document should be created, which is an upgrade to the existing one, and I think, on the condition that's on behalf of the HDZ Club, I think maybe we could back this up. But it's always there, but it's kind of embarrassing, so I'm going to try to discuss a little bit of what I think about this law. I said that the Republic of Croatia is truly based on this data that we see really has one big space that it can build up existing concession contracts and also a whole series of new ones that, especially in the area of agriculture and in the field of maritime goods, can regulate with sectoral laws and thus create opportunities for revenues not only of the state, but also of the common incomes of both the state and the units of local self-government. However, it is obvious that these sectoral laws, and we have heard that the most important one, writes here, will be passed by the end of 12 months this year. He won't be brought in. I don't see the possibility of it being brought in at all. It may be prepared, but I think that without the DORH which always has certain objections to each text of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, and we have had various plans, but we could not possibly go through this instance of the DORH that wants to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and should because it is authorised, that there is simply creating perhaps the biggest problem and that there is no problem with ideas and visions and thinking about how it should look. We see that of the 14 thousand and 8 contracts 74% of the same are registered in the area of the local self-government unit and that perhaps there are the largest areas for the incomes of these local self-governments that we have seized through various legislative proposals over the past year a certain level of income. We see that finally all of these 14 thousand and completely what is one success again, I say what happened before and trying to make that register really look the way it should and the state should finally know what is happening in a particular area of concessioning and happening. The concession revenues in these 12 years are 6.8 billion kuna, somewhere on average 600 million, of which again the state may most, almost 566 million countries on average, and 100 million units of local self-government, 90 million are the average results of the joint revenues of the Republic of Croatia and local self-government, and there are opportunities. We see that the debts are 133 million, of which the largest number of 3,000 and 337 contracts is the largest share of the debt of 500 kuna. 500 kuna, I think it should be dealt with urgently, because that's a minimum amount to burden a certain number. I'm interested in who the two who owe more than five million kunas are. We only have two, maybe to say what those two are, that we know why they owe so much, and they have a neat concession that's unallocated. Now about the law, I think we are, that some articles of the law are adapted to certain decisions of the current government, i.e. Governments leading Croatia and making certain decisions. So here's article 43, here we've heard it's for nautical tourism. And in this article, I recognize another problem, which is the bankruptcy of the Queen’s shipyard. Kraljevica Shipyard was the oldest Croatian shipyard founded on 28.04.1729 and after 283 years in the 6th month of this year, this government sent him into bankruptcy and closed him down. 460 shipping workers were sent to the stock market and there was a problem. We've got runs, we've got space, we've got concessions, and we can't help interested subjects to accomplish some of their activities. It is this article that enables them to reach their activities through concessioning and compromise, and they can welcome it. However, when we apply this to the marine good, which will happen to us by applying this item 3rd subparagraph (a) and these 30% allowed. It may occur to us that on one beach, whoever takes the concession makes 3 or 4 subcontracts, because it says it can be concluded with third parties of the pre-contract. So there could be more, there's no limit, which I can say up to 30%, let's say in some proportions to replace the concession. You with four contracts, with four pedals on the beach pay your concession. I don't think it should be the law's intensities if the concessionary allows me to not know how much profit he makes right after he makes the deal, not his own activity. Maybe I'm reading it wrong, but that's what it looks like to me. I think it should still be limited in a certain part or number of these subcontracts and you explain it here with some gas stations at the ports of nautical tourism. However, I say this is applicable to all concessions on the maritime good as it says, and it may happen to us that someone pays their concession under concession. That's allowed by this. But what I want to finally warn you is that we haven't settled through this law any other questions. The right of valorisation and the questions of the first one that is concessioning. I will mention here an example that I have set bigger, which is a concession at the port of Mali Lošinj where a long-time concessionist lost his concession in various games and last year was not in any way appropriate service because it took everything under its wing at the end of the port administration. I mentioned it in the first debate, but it's still not settled. We can't damage a concessionaire who's done everything neatly, he's started doing his job for which he's concessioned the job, I'm talking about smokers here. However, in Gorski Kotar the chimney can come into the house, but you do not have to receive his service. He's done all his work, but he can't charge his concession that costs 5, 10,000 kuna because no one wants his service. I don't think it's protected here through this law. Tourist land. Tourist land has already been mentioned today. It's worth up to 300 million kuna. So far, we have 68 requests from Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County and 7 requests from Zadar. None of them are concessioned, we don't have any income, and it's only 22 million square meters in the camps. That's one big income in the reserve, because the simple state doesn't react. And at the end of the monetization and that highway, there's really a question of why the government is going to do it, we see that the commissions have already done it, that this article of the law has already put everything together the way it's done, that it happens, and I think that we're obviously going to do it again, and I don't know what ideas are left without any. Property without what everyone created and carried on their hump. [[Intruder, Zgrebec: Please bring an end to the debate, and you have three replicas, so you will continue.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24429	First replica, colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24430	Thank you, Madam Vice President. counterpart Boris, both you and I and the government know that there is no way to pass the law, by the end of the year is another week, and the law is not yet in the ministry, nor has the basic indications of the law itself been established by the new ministry. In the spring of 2008, in Plitvices, I was representatives of the entire maritime sector presenting a law that was completed and which is today in the ministry and I think that there is a consensus among all the participants on maritime good on how to establish order on maritime good through the new Maritime Good Law. What's the problem, and that's what this government is dealing with. The problem is in the acquired rights of maritime goods, which has been so many different ways of using maritime goods since Austro-Hungarian established it with the so-called maritim until today, through several states, the various legal or illegal concessionaries have taken over maritime good for use with so many different grounds until the last conversion that it is not possible to find a unique system and this state attorney's office must have, as a state body who cares on behalf of the Republic of Croatia on the maritime good must give its last word. Everything else from port administrations, from ports of maritime transport, from concessioning to maritime well-being, all this has already been clearly established. I don't know if then Minister Komadina has quite appointed the commission, but it seems to me that the commission was appointed somewhere in April or May and that today's commission has practically not moved away.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24431	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24432	Well, here I am already, I say, my colleague Bacic stated in his debate that we and indeed in that segment have a big space. Just here is the report from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure has a total of 297 contracts or 2% of all 14 thousand contracts, with 100 kilometers of coast and maritime goods, and this is a reserve for each government not only for this one, but for every future one. It was also for those who missed it and that it really responded as soon as possible. We heard we didn't do anything, etc. I'm just saying, we've had our proposals made. It's always the State's Attorney's Office that thinks some of these provisions aren't in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and that's when it all stood. Perhaps the question is finally whether the state can then determine its interest and say whether we are interested in standing up so we do nothing, or whether it's of interest that we finally agree that the DORH says that we still have to let go of a certain one, as it says to gymnastics that it can start valorizing because really so many beautiful beaches, so much maritime goods that it stands. It's really impossible to unencumber him, and then local self-government runs towards what's called the so-called. concession approvals and everything that follows through various procedures, we are again gymnastics in the same area, and our income is certainly not the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24433	Gold Comadin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24434	I have to work with my colleague, Boric. I don't know what you wanted to say with Mali Lošinj's port as a bad example. That's a good example. Luka Lošinj has the port administration, the port administration is a business, a basic business to manage the port area, and after a failed attempt to give a concession that the note bene was even a question, it should have been given a concession and its basic activity handed over to another. However, there was a complaint about this procedure, and you know it well, and it's exactly the city's company run by your party colleague, Gary Cappelly, right? As a result, the tender fell and then took over the port administration directly management of the port area, it was left without the plankton carried out by the concessionary and while she obtained new planktons she carried out activities with what she had, and the activity was done neatly. By the way, is the question of whether the port administration is allowed at all its basic activity to import and transport ships in concessions? That's even a question you should be allowed to ask, at least in my court. And as for that, I must make an open example of the County of Primorje-Gorskina in order to give anything at all except the waves of the port area, the wave of the sea to the lower limit of the maritime goods, and for that thank God they need money, they need geometers, but they also need the State's Attorney General who is the largest throat in the Republic of Croatia and there stands a huge number of maritime goods borders, and that is why part of it cannot be implemented. And I must also say that from the entire Adriatic coast is half a concentrated coast and half of the established maritime goods borders in the Primorje-Gorski County. And that's good, too, you know. I don't know what others are doing, but because a number of millions of kunas have been invested in establishing the limits of maritime goods and given through these concessions and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24435	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24436	I cited this example in my first debate when we had a bill because it was an example of a lengthy procedure. So three firms called. She was the one who'd been doing that job for ten years. She did it based on the concession. She had 20 employees, and this law does not address the question of valorising those who have to leave and they have created a certain property in concession, let's say at concession, they have created the number of employees and they cease to exist at one point. Is that an intensity, and is that a contribution then to the economic development of the Republic of Croatia if we're interested in moving and creating and entering the business, someone shot it on the side and said I'm going to do it. In the end, the port administration turned out because the pier was not the third to be bound and untied by boats that had to enter the port by season. It has nothing to do with either the party or anything to do with the mayor. It's just that this law doesn't solve it, and that's what HNS colleagues said. Valorisation invested has no right to say first in the concession competition, because yet someone already in the system exists, so we see that there are 14 thousand contracts. These people are not protected, and they're good jobs. He's out of a job tomorrow. They're all home. That's got to go away. If we think, well, at least give him equal terms, if he's the tallest guy and you go on and on and on, but not all over again, you were, you turned out like a game. I don't agree with that, I think we should settle this and this law doesn't solve it. That's why I listed it because nothing changed between the two readings, here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24437	And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24438	Thank you very much. At the end of your speech, you mentioned only briefly because you were interrupted by the vice president, the monetization of Croatian highways. This monetization of Croatian highways, which we are very proud of, only shows and proves that the words spoken by the prime minister are actually true. The state, or government, needs fresh capital under emergency. And now that the ski football government is not considering my amendment to six million kunas that should be invested in the Whites economic zone, so that private investors can move in and build 600 million-euro plants, so what's the damage? 600 million euros is 4 and a half billion kuna. No, not even 6 million kuna and will give Croatian highways to others to make a clear concession. So give anything to anyone, pop your hand! I won't. And so this government, and not six million kunas for the amendment that I've invested in, will give the entire fortune to the people, the country's wealth to the others to manage it. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24439	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24440	Thank you very much. Well, maybe I didn't get to say it, but we do see that in the course of the 50 million kuna process, it's just consulting for monetization, and then we're talking about rationalizing costs, etc. 50 million isn't a small amount of counseling. Apparently big money is expected, some say 3 billion euros, it is 20 billion and something billion, because here it is very much wanted to be given to someone because the former minister says who has left "The state has poor governance and has a irrational system management". Now we're giving something, and that's our greatest value, which we're obviously having in the Republic of Croatia right now, and we think that whoever comes to us is going to be a favor, that we're probably going to drive cheaper, that he's not going to have a profit, etc. And look where the difference is. Two concessioned roads, highway Zagreb-Macelj and Bina-Istra only in part of the difference between Zagreb-Rijek highways or highways is that these do not pay VAT at all, these others pay. They save $350 million a year on VAT alone, so you figure out what that is for 20 years. And not to mention tolls that are twice as expensive on Zagreb-Macelj compared to our highways or Bina-Istra which is 51 lip without tunnels compared to 46 on average per km of tolls for the Rijeka-Zagreb highway or HAC. And now I'm saying, this government says, we prefer to have a stranger's billing house that will take it neatly in 30 years and we're ready for it through, I say a procedure that's already started with then I guess we'll pay off as part of the debt but part will stay. I don't know who's gonna pay off that other part. That's how it's said from that money because they can't cover the total burden they have. What are we going to do with that 20 billion kuna anyway? It's a personal question. What do we want with him? Are we going to reduce the public spirit and say ok, we've paid off something, so at least now we've cut something down in favour of the state, but I think that's how the citizens are going to take the greatest weight of the area again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24441	Thank you. It's Branko Bacic's turn for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24442	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, Mr. Assistant Minister. Well, here I think this debate in the last half-hour if I'm mostly more focused on maritime well-being than on general concessions in Croatia, what I want to say to you in my first reading and now I'm going to repeat. That I agree with my colleague Shucker, that the law is good. The law is very good and is an excellent roof instrument that covers almost all concessions in Croatia except maritime goods. And my view, therefore, is that it should be abandoned in terms of complexity, given the importance of maritime goods, given the diversity of concessions on the maritime good that it is solved by the Law on the Sea Good and Seaport. So concessioning is a seaport and concessioning maritime goods should be left to the Law on the Sea Good. And I'll say one more thing. So, I don't agree that someone can concession on the maritime good because they've well rewarded the waterfront. So, to practically compensate someone for branching out the harbor, building some waterfront well, to get a concession for public works on public good, and then we're going to give him a concession for maritime good, rather than vice versa. The Constitution tells me that, the maritime good is one of the most important Croatian natural resources, so the management of this resource is primarily essential for someone to take care of, and the one who has received the concession for maritime good can then leave someone to perform the works necessary for him to carry out his activities and those concessions on that maritime good. That's one reason. The second reason there's so much, I said so much diversity in approach. By this law, you claim that one concession can be given. That's what I told you in my first reading. In a couple, I don't know, maybe two, three months expires in the Maloston Bay 220 concessions, I think 220 concessions for use in growing mariculture, for growing stones and mussels. And all 220 concessions are linked to one environmental impact study that speaks of the maximum possible number of mariculture fields in the Bay of Maloston. And instead of solving all of them with one competition, because they will almost be signed on the same day, the signed contracts for these concessions will have to be signed because it is clear about the area which is the nature park so the ministry will call 220 concessions instead of calling for all concessionaries in Maloston Bay to report to the competition and to solve with one decision the government and the ministry because all these contracts are typically changing the area of the field and the coordinates where the field is. Another thing that Mr. Boric said before, the extension of the concession should allow the extension of the concession to simply enable the concessionaire especially if they are camps. Well, clearly, if the camp is with the maritime well-being, it's to expect the camp owner to get an automatic concession on the marine good. He's not going to have a camp, he's going to have camp expenses, and the beach is going to be taken from under his nose, and that's going to be, and I don't know what we can justify. Not to mention small shipyards on islands where maritime well-connected to private property. Who else can do this job other than him, and he already has that concession. And now that his concession is up, he's gonna have to re-apply to the competition. I would, I think we need to establish that possibility to simply allow the extension of the concession to these such users. Here I accept, well that you have accepted the possibility to enable sub-concession in the maritime good, so that, for example, we have told HEP and others who have ports, whether they are claiming to be public transport, whether in the ports of nautical tourism, but some of their own activities that only they can carry out. I said before, so the Marine Good Law will not be passed until the end of the year, it won't. I'm also afraid next year that he'll be brought in given the complexity of this matter. Well, then here's what would be good if you could turn that off. As for the monetization of Croatian highways. We at the HDZ Club say it would be correct, politically correct and for the ruling coalition, to put the decision down in the Croatian Parliament. I'll give you an example. Isn't it strange to you, for example, that the award of concessions, Luke Rijeka or Luke Zadar or Luke Dubrovnik, when the investment crosses a certain amount and when the term of the concession is over 50 years, that decision comes to the Parliament. So, according to the current positive concession rules that the state has been giving for over 50 years, it has to come to this House. Now, for example, for a concession on Brajdica in Rijeka or in Gazenica, or at the Greek port where the future concessionary will invest, for example, 65m euros and in order to justify it economically, he will have to get a concession sometime at 54 years, which crosses the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That concession will have to come here to the Parliament and the government will need for that concession to sign the contract to come to the Parliament. And for the monetization of Croatian highways where billions are spoken of, I don't know what, where there is a much more complex problem that will have a far-reaching impact on Croatia's economy, the government is so brave that it assumes that responsibility. I'm surprised, I have to admit that I'm surprised at the courage not to get political confirmation here in the Parliament that they're going to get anyway, because the ruling majority will probably once I assume they'll act on the government's proposal. I am honestly surprised to you that you are going into such a complex process and passing the Assembly, and for example, on a more curative example where we will be able to build a port that is important, a port of national importance, an international port, for example, a Greek port, when we build a port superstructure for which it will take more than 50 years to come to this Assembly. I think that's an argument you can't pass. You have to respect that and I think that if the government wants to have political support, you'd better come here to Parliament through a law that can solve it. As for the concession, to get back to it, I've made an amendment to the state budget. I wasn't defending him because the government wasn't picking up on him, it was the resolute minister or deputy minister. It's about concessioning the line coastal sea traffic that you're writing here and in this law that it's in line with the Law on line coastal maritime transport that is in line with the Law on concessions. You see, this law provides for a tender for all concessions to carry out line coastal maritime transport, and this law is in line with the EU acquis. Assuming the government makes a decision on the establishment of state lines. The traffic connection level achieved has conditioned the island's economic recovery and the population's increase. It's not only, but the most important assumption of the island's development is a good transport connection. It is not clear to me that now that we are going to launch concessions for maritime transport concessions, that we are reducing these lines by 35 million kunas of revenue because the item has been reduced in the state budget and we are practically forcing ourselves, so the Government is forcing itself to reduce the volume of traffic towards the Croatian islands. In August, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure said they lacked for the entire existing maritime traffic of about 40 million kuna charged at 8 months and I agree. And instead of at least staying on the existing new budget, to remain at the existing amounts of 390 million kuna as currently foreseen in the budget, i.e. you have now reduced the rebalancing by another 15 you are still going to further reduce by 35 million kuna. So you've had a little bit of 390 to cover the financial existing traffic, and now we're reducing another 35. What's gonna stay, I don't know. In my assessment, if it was true, and it was true that 40 was missing and when it was even reduced by 35 it is 20%, each fifth line towards the Croatian islands will be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24443	Please bring the end, and you have the replicas, and you will continue to be able to continue part of the debate. Thank you. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24444	Comrade Bačić, this is an important debate, and here we have neither time nor a word of how important it is. And it's a late hour to discuss it. And I again on the maritime well again there, we heard that here, on the other hand today we heard that we didn't do anything to build new marinas, to build some new capacities, etc. I'm saying it's not like that. The Marine system is precisely the former government that put him in line after years of riots, all have concessions, etc. And today we hear a man from Velika Gorica, I don't know if he's from Velika Gorica, telling us what our system of nautical tourism is, nothing good, someone's paying a bigger fee, someone's paying less, as if all these marinas were described as being each equal, large, as I know, having the same aquatorium as if they were equal capacities. They're all different. Obviously, competitions or what preceded the award of the concession showed certain different needs of certain concessionaries. And now that we have made a strategy of nautical tourism to be implemented, which obviously either gave up or I don't know why it doesn't want to be implemented, where we have clearly defined certain activities, there is now no new marina. Here's an example of New Vinodolski, only the concession is determined, why not build a marina,... Because the investor hasn't started his work yet. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's wrong with him? I don't know, but did the state do its part when the question came up? Yeah, maybe Marine Tisno after the third try or fourth, I don't know if it's the fourth one, but maybe I wouldn't say that's the biggest one, I wouldn't say, I'm sorry, I wouldn't say. But I didn't really mean to discuss it with Mr. Klarin, but maritime good is a resource that we need to put into service as soon as possible, and here I'm going to say any further debate on these concessions, then it wouldn't be so difficult anymore, because that's something that sticks us all in the eye, and it just didn't work out the right solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24445	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24446	Comrade Boric, it is not true that there are no concessions for marinas in past councils. First of all, I said that once before, the Marine Good Law was passed on September 25, 2003. After that, there were elections if you remember, and then the government created a Regulation on concessioning maritime goods. It was passed in February 2004, so in January 2004, this regulation was passed and I am saying that the law was good, that it was good law and that it was a good regulation. And it was not a regulation that prevented the concession of maritime goods, but what my colleague Komadin said just now was the first prerequisite for concessioning the maritime well-being and the port of nautical tourism is to establish the border of maritime goods. All 5% of the maritime goods limit has been established in the Republic of Croatia as funds were to be provided. The legislative framework did not prevent the identification of the border, but rather an expensive procedure. In the law that I said was presented, it was our proposal that this job of setting boundaries be brought down to the catastres and that this job be given to the geodetics, to the geodetics which, if they are able to establish a limit between what, then they can also establish the limit and the maritime goods. It was a bill of law to change that way. The second thing, the assumption of concessioning the ports of nautical tourism is the creation of an urban planning arrangement that is on units of local self-government. When no U.P.U.U.P. plan is built, no one can make concessions as much as they want. And that's where it's concerned, that the local self-government units didn't carry out the procedure. We, meanwhile, changed the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, where we allowed interested investors along with units of local self-government to build urban planning arrangements as a basis for concessioning. And I could now count the 10 ports of nautical tourism that we have concessioned, and at least over 70 ports we are based on that regulation that we hear is a bad extension, the entire ACI system is ultimately a prolonged concession under that regulation. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24447	Gold Comadin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24448	So I would agree in that part that the maritime good is a specific situation in both seaports and that it should certainly be elaborated further through this Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. However, not only were the boundaries a concession problem. The problem is that the established limit should be entered in land books and this should be given to the green light of the State's Attorney's office. They've been doing a lot of problems here, a lot of problems, and they're doing it to a great extent. But it's not just that, it can't even be concessioned where there's no spatial plan. Both the sea and the coast, our citizens who deal with spatial planning and many cities and municipalities and the county forgot that the sea was also a space, because the spatial plans dealt only with the coast of this rest, i.e. land. And when all these three conditions are met, it can be concessioned. The other thing that bothered me personally all those years bothers me today, is that no distinction has been made clear between what can be given and should be given state, which county, and what cities and municipalities. I don't know the ice cream, the deck chairs, the communal ports that are barrels, that's the business of the city and the community, that doesn't matter. The county should have something that's very expensive in many years, and for many years it would take a state. Something similar was done but not exactly the same way. I'm just going to tell you an example of what many do, you know it well you have to be attached to the lab and the location permit and the investment lab, etc., and then it's written that God will invest and ask how many millions of kunas in twenty years and a maximum deadline, 20, 15 I don't know, but what is the deadline. But the problem is, which is the question of when they will invest and then stand these, as counterpart Boris said, are these concessions of the type in Novi Vinodolski. However, we sanctioned it in such a way that we conditioned break-up concession clauses if it did not invest in the first 20, 30 % of the time, not in the last year. I think it's, I'm just saying there's a lot of these jokes, literally that need to be brought into line with not all the shores. Croatia has six thousand kilometers but it is not all commercial. I know that we have 30% of that coast, 300 kilometers from the thousand and so I assume that 2,000, 1,000 and a half Croatian coast are for some commercial use.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24449	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24450	Of course, the assumption of any activities on the maritime well established is the limit of maritime good. So far, some 300km has been established throughout Croatia, the longest in Zadar County since it has worked a project with the Norwegian government that is very successful and I think that Zadar County will come somewhere to 70, 80% of the established maritime goods line. The point is that the proposal to establish the maritime goods border, which I never agreed with, was a policy, i.e. the county commissions that proposed maritime well-being. It's a maritime good, and then for a time even established by the government, you might think the government would have made a decision to establish 15 meters or 20 meters of maritime goods. It was later sent down to the ministry. So that's one of the assumptions. And the other thing is when you talk about cities and municipalities taking over certain jobs in terms of concessioning maritime goods, it was a proposal. So you know, and you were a long-standing mayor when you ask the question of who should make a decision on concessioning for example on the port of nautical tourism, then the county would want it to remain in their jurisdiction, and on the other hand large cities such as Rijeka or like Zadar or Dubrovnik or Split they would like cities to make concession decisions and there was, there even political parties couldn't influence, there was actually one relationship between the mayor and the mayor who should take over that cake to concession the ports of nautical tourism in their area. And there were lots of disputes and eventually remained in the current solution with giving approval to pedals as we said, umbrellas, rent scooters, etc. Absolutely, it's according to the law and it needs to be brought down to the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24451	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24452	Dear counterpart Bačić, you were wondering why the government would not give a decision in the debate on concessioning highways here in the assembly where I also think the place is, although I object to concessioning highways. First of all, they won't because Parliament isn't the place to decide. It's going somewhere else. The Parliament's hands are up, and now that Parliament's not the place to decide then there's no need to give the opposition an opportunity to speak up, which is why it's against the concessioning of highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24453	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24454	Well, you see, colleague Vuksic, I'm not saying that there's going to be a concession on the freeway, but I don't agree that directly from this one general law like the concession law that I'm saying is good, that he's enough legal support to make such a big decision. That's what I'm up against. I don't want to talk about the highway concessions based on this law at all. This law is so harsh about such a strong decision that it cannot give the parameters to come to the concession of highways. How many more sublegal acts are there if the government insists on it, I don't know, but I don't believe anyone in this country can do without any more acts, whether those regulations, rules are access to any studio solution, a meaningful solution to the privatisation of highways. First of all, it is necessary to make a law that will allow access to it and final decision whether it will be made or not should be here in this assembly. For example, I don't want to say yes or no, I'm more inclined not to go, but if we're going to carry out a procedure, we're going to have a debate involving a complete public, professional, scientific on such a big project as the monetization of highways for it is the Parliament, and let the decision be made by this House after the government has made an effort according to this law given to us, to give us parameters as to why it goes so. And don't make a decision in advance to sell it, and then you need to find studies to justify it, and I don't agree. I disagree that we order a study that needs to be predicated by our decision that we're right. But let's go the other way, figure out what we have to do, if we satisfy it, and if we recognize the interest, then we make a decision. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24455	Thank you. And the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24456	Comrade Bacic, same question. In fact, you have argued that the monetization of Croatian highways is an amazing courage, therefore, of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which without a decision to say both the consultation and the scientific and all the others and the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia is not to say such a large, large decision. But it is not a fellow Bačić's courage, it is the arrogance and haughtiness of the office system which, without a change, was actually introduced into the Republic of Croatia as this law was introduced, i.e. the Regulation on the introduction of health and sexual education into schools without any debate in the Assembly. Right? So it's one arrogance, one bypass of Parliament, one domination of the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and all of us together here. That's it. There's nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24457	Replication response, Branko Bacic. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24458	So in his speech on behalf of the SDS Club, Mr. Pupovac mentioned and said that the government of Jadranka Kosor also thought about giving in concessions of highways. I was in that government. That's not true. So at some professional level, we've been thinking about what that would mean. But when we saw how complex the matter is to access the concession of highways at all, which means for the economic development of the state? What about the social aspect? What does it mean for Croatia's future? Then we said there's no possibility that the government would dare to do something without having a quality preparation for it, that there was no knowledge of any possible parameters that would lead to it. Here, I don't think the government even now that it's chosen a counselor, that the government is still thinking of approaching this procedure in a way that doesn't bring in one act that would have some kind of attempt at consensus at the level of all political parties in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24459	We're moving on to a five-minute debate on behalf of the clubs. HDSB club and Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24460	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This Law on concessions, from state to local level, is in fact a direct and indirect recognition of the inability of political elites to manage their own resources and nothing else. We simply do not know or admit that we do not know how to manage what we have. With its own resources counted here in Article 5, starting with research into mineral raw materials under number 1, and then even with activities within protected areas of nature. What does that mean? Not mentioned today. Which are protected areas of nature. Is Plitvice National Park getting into this? Krka? Velebit? Kornati? There's a clear mix of things with the maritime well-being and all the way to some wire that I don't even know if there are. There's one on Platt, one on me, she doesn't work for me until the free zones. No agricultural land is listed here. I don't see it in this, but it's symptomatic that when we keep talking about the maritime good and the sea, it's been suspended from the state agricultural land since a year ago by the arrival of our Minister of Jakovina, your Minister of Jakovina. I speak ours because of the Slavonski Brod as Minister of Agriculture. Why has it been suspended? I guess our peasants can't own their land in agriculture, can't plow or dig what they've been doing for centuries. I guess there's a concessionary waiting for you. So when I talk about the concession, so it's quite clear that everyone who reports for a concession has a goal to work. We're incompetent, we don't know, we're not, we're lazy, we're stupid, I don't know what to say. Can't we in our own country make things different? Or we realized that we're all so unfair that at all levels from local to state level we're so much in the eyes of the public that I don't say hateful and then why, because of what's been made up of these years. So there is also doubt about this law which may have good intentions, in good faith is written, but few believe that he will do well or at the conclusion as fellow Boric said, what happened there in Lošinj, this one tells of Sibenik the whole referendum on the port of Sibenik. So the example is the mass of negatives and then how do you believe that the state will earn concessions of so much money. That is why we may be moving from that state of emergency that Milanovic is speaking out loud and clear. Do you know what a state of emergency means? So when I think about the definition of state of emergency, then I see tanks on the street. Then I see a forbidden watch, so-called. After 8:00, get out on the street. It's a state of emergency. Did we really get there? Or it's actually a symbolism when the state of emergency is said, that is, the economic state of emergency. Is someone good at making fun of the state of emergency, which is obvious for a year, given the statements about the random state and a number of other statements in the people as paradoxical. Somebody's really been messing around this year in power with verbal jugglers. So I personally do not, although the law says and Shuker and here is Mr. Lalovec here written with intent, and it is well and appreciated are the objections and suggestions, all that we have discussed for the first time and for the first time about concessions, but still somehow I do not have faith, especially or mainly because this is a shortcut and this is not to say by force without the decision of the Parliament, as the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia we are going to go to such a large procedure, undertaking, monetisation, as it is called the monetization of Croatian highways, Claude Monet is not about him, the French painter jell-o.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24461	Comrade Grubisic, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24462	So, thank you very much, I won't be long, it's late.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24463	Here's half a minute, but you have three replicas. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24464	Dear colleague Grubisic, you said, you were wondering if there was an incompetence of the elite at work. I'd say there's an elitist at work. And precisely because the process of selling out the state property of the Croatian Post office Bank has already been started, Croatia's insurance is already well prepared for the monetization of highways, and that we could not protect the national interests here in the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Labourists – The Labour Party collect documents to make a criminal application against the Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, and in order to try to protect our national interests. So without a strategy to break the law, the Prime Minister has no right, or government, he has no right to break the laws. You were also wondering about the state of emergency. If it is a state of emergency, it cannot be a Colloquial term, whether it is an emergency or not, it is quite certain that the prime minister of the Croatian government is not a non-serious person, then the prime minister must address himself here in the Assembly and explain what is the state of emergency, whether Croatia is threatening Greece, whether the financial sector is holding a knife under our throat, which is waiting for us in the next period, how we will break ourselves out of this extraordinary state without the government issuing national interests, because forgive us for selling the goods left over is non-protection if it is not a national interest, the government must protect national interests and must make major important decisions here in the Assembly. The assembly was marginalized and someone tonight said very few of us, the afternoon most important, one of the most important topics in this autumn's session we are discussing with intent, precisely because there would be as little controversy about it as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24465	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24466	My colleague Vuksic this first part and the first sentence you said you intended to file a criminal report surprised me very much and positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24467	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24468	Thank you very much. I'll still be a little shorter since even though we didn't make a deal, my colleague practically took my whole replica. You told your colleague Grubisic at the beginning that if I am not mistaken, this law creates a prerequisite for a concession from a state or local level. With the locals we can also understand something else, but with the state it directly means that the government is knowingly going into violation of the law, and that therefore confirms this decision of ours, or gives us the argument that we are right, and if they really think that way then, I don't know I think a colleague said the Prime Minister can't break the laws. Not that the Prime Minister can't break the laws, but the executive power is the last to get involved in going with something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24469	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24470	A colleague Novak, in recent times, or half a year of government decision and regulation, or I don't know what is not being made without any consultation, or without debate in the Croatian Parliament, and that is why I said in my speech that it has actually become an office system of state management where Parliament is therefore less important than in some parliamentary system, as Croatia should be under the Constitution. Unfortunately, we now have one, one almost I would say autocratic rule, where there is a parliamentary majority without much debate voting all that the Government has made, and many decisions have been made without debate in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24471	And Zlatko Komadina, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24472	Dear fellow Grubisic, of course the opposition has an extraordinary opportunity as I have said before to deal with larpurartist discussions, because it simply does not have the responsibility of managing, and it is a good position, an extraordinary position. However, I don't like that you're Stigmatizing the Law on concessions as if everything is going to go wrong, literally all 100% concessions, it's not like that, I think the Law on concessions is welcome to regulate the legal framework and the legal regime of use, for example I'm going to say economic use of maritime goods, so you're not going to tell me that the state needs to be the one that I don't know is going to deal with mariculture or introduce a restaurant located on the coast, etc. I mean, there are a number of logically justified ways of awarding concessions, and there are also those that threaten the potential national interests, of course, if they are particularly badly spent, of course there are. But it doesn't mean that they're all going to happen, as you actually said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24473	And a reply to the replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24474	Comrade Komadin, you see, I've been in Zadar for a summer, and I've got some byte on Vir, a cottage, and when I wanted to take a turn for Borik, I couldn't find the board of Borak. Namely hotel resort Borik with hotel Barbara and others were there before the war, now you don't have board Borik. It's written beautifully in a German hotel village of a German owner. Now it says here that national parks will also be those who are therefore protected by nature etc., what are we going to do? We're gonna call it still a national park when it goes into concession for 50 years, or it's gonna be some kind of squirmvald I don't know, a branch of the Schwartzvald National Park, or I don't know what it's gonna be, that's what I've been talking about, I'm not against whoever wants to get their guest in the concession, I don't mind, I don't mind if I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24475	And the SDP club, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24476	Dear Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I cannot from the miracle at the end, that the Croatian Labour Party club in the Croatian Parliament so against the Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic submits a criminal application. Did the Labour Club file criminal charges against Eve Sanader? ... They didn't exist, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The HDSB club supports this criminal application, did they file charges against Ivo Sanader? So what do you think we'd be going to the highway today if the tunnels weren't scared three times? Would you go to the highway sale today if it weren't for a mile of highways three times as expensive during Sanader's government, but during Racan's government? I mean, I'm really surprised, I'm sorry, I'm going back to the law. So I'm glad the law caused positive reactions from almost all clubs. Some of the skeptics that fellow MPs have said don't think it stands, which we'll all see together, and I think the law will really show one state that will sort things out in the area of concessioning in the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to commend Mr. Shucker and in 2005 when the concession register was introduced, so I think it was really one comprehensive job, which was not easy to do, if I'm not wrong, 50,000 I mean concession contracts in 2005 and 2006, so they prepared to publish that register. So this register and this law, so that ultimately defines and explains the concession I think is one good foundation for the future. As far as maritime goods are concerned, we definitely have to commend the Primorje-Gorski County, not because there is Mr. Komadina, the largest number, so the largest kilometers, the meters of maritime goods were established in the Primorje-Gorski County and the Primorje-Gorski County from its several port administrations is the best example of management so the port area in the Republic of Croatia, when I suggested it in the Sibenik-Knin County to introduce more port administrations such as in the Primorje-Gorski County they made fun of me at the time, but I think they were wrong. I am going back to my colleague Bačić, actually to the last discussions which were and which were therefore the most in the direction of concessioning in the area of maritime goods, Mr Bačić, no concession for the port of nautical tourism in the Republic of Croatia can be called (a) if no maritime goods limit has been established and (b) if no spatial plan has been adopted, but a detailed planning of the arrangement. The GPU must therefore be adopted within the spatial plan so that concessions for the port of nautical tourism can be opened. But what's the problem? The problem is, the regulation was bad. You have not answered me, no port of nautical tourism in the Republic of Croatia has been built in the last 10 years. Which, you say the problem is this, the problem is that, the problem is speculators, the problem is what the regulation allowed the speculators to apply to the contests, the problem is that the speculators knew when to call which port of nautical tourism, then they appeared in the competition, and they demoted all those potential concessionaries who could participate in the competition. So you have countless examples where... What I was saying earlier in the replica, so I'm not going to repeat myself, so I'm giving you a three-percent fee, and for example. some boom construction, in my case, so with one employee 26% in 5 days get a concession, in 5 days they sell that same concession... [[You don't understand.]] What happened? [[You don't understand.]] Cancelled the contest. What's the responsibility for this company? Absolutely nothing. So that's what I'm trying to tell you, so I'm glad that we finally came to a concession on the maritime good, narrow concession for the ports of nautical tourism, but it was definitely a problem and that the regulation hadn't changed, I'm not saying it's going to happen now, but I think that by changing the regulation that was so in the 7th month in the government, that some things are going to change, and I primarily think what needs to be changed is to make it impossible for the speculators to participate in the competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24477	And now eight replicas to this exhibit. First Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24478	Thank you very much. My friend Klarin, I'm asking you, since you were the strongest opposition party in eight years before you came to power, have you ever filed a criminal complaint against Ivo Sanader? That's one thing. The second, that the other one for the tunnels, so if anyone were to expose Ivo Sanader and bring you victory on the wings of our criticism here in the Parliament and the speeches in the Parliament, then it's HDSSB, you should tell us thank you for coming to power. And as for the tunnel, well, I, you know that for the sixth time in six times, our Viennaman sang the one about the tunnels, all Croats only want one thing, they want, they want to paint the tunnels. So I sang to Mr. Eve Sanader and his heirs, etc. So don't talk about it. And your understanding of democracy and your anger in the first sentence shows only your thinking and your democracy. You'd say that, well, Berlusconi's been sued, which is why he wouldn't have made Ivo Sanader and I don't know any other prime ministers in the country either. And Berlusconi was responsible for his misdeeds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24479	The answer to the replica Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24480	I just want to say that we have to be credible. Well, they don't sell highways today because the state of the country is great, so it was, uh, it was my people's disaster. It was a disaster, and that's what we need to talk about. Today someone is saying we're filing criminal charges against Zoran Milanovic, and we're forgetting what happened 8 years ago, or 8 years, or 6 years ago, maybe I won't say 8 years ago. So I think there was an absolute disaster in the country and actually the SDP was first with its coalition partners in 1.1.2012 to take the ideal state. Well, people, I think we need to be serious, although normally everyone has the right to say what's going on, I might be discussing this little bit more temperamentally Dalmatian, but it's not that anger.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24481	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24482	Thank you very much. Well, here, I don't know the reason for this final address on behalf of the club, I guess you've wanted to fight you six out of the opposition with 7 of us, the authorities with 7 of us out of opposition, I don't think so, because I haven't read the other reason because you've been practically fighting with all of us here, and we've been having a nice conversation about the concession law. Now, about the tunnel. That story's been going on for a while, but has the procedure started yet? What's going on with these tunnels and painting? I don't see him. Was that a media story? So why haven't the charges been filed, if you're already talking about painting the tunnel. Are there any charges against the tunnel painting? When? ... You'll say that when it does. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, obviously she's 50 years old for that sort of thing, maybe. I don't think so. And the story was a lot about other things that happened on the freeway and on the toilets, this, that, but it's all a little bit different, no matter how much you want someone to be guilty of, and as far as the situation is concerned, I think you're a good situation that's been going up in these years turned to go down, no matter what you think it isn't. The facts are different, the figures are different, people are harder to live, everything is going harder, they can't, you've overloaded them, they're the mistakes of the authorities, and you don't have to be angry with it. And if you want to hand it to the Prime Minister, that's another thing, but you don't have to argue with everyone who's trying to contribute to a good law that we said was okay, with one little fence that we think is justified. Why would the government want us past this law one system worth 20, 30 billion kunas and more just to give someone to manage without telling us, and here was the public, here is the voice of the public, not the government. Everyone there thinks the same thing, with their opinions set out, but here it's a little different.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24483	Replication response, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24484	Mr. Boric, it was really not my intention to argue with anyone, and I think I have the right to debate as you do, so sometimes it was too much, sometimes it wasn't too much, but everyone in this Croatian Assembly has the right to speak. I just want to because you said in the beginning whether or not the charges will be filed, some things you can't or can't amnesty.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24485	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24486	Well, thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think there's one thing that's clear here, so one policy option thinks that the highway problem needs to be solved through monetization, another policy option thinks that's not the case, but if you're already going into it, if you decide to go into it that you should regulate it with a special law. I don't see what's wrong with that right now, but if we're going to throw what I said to each other, then we can say by opening Zadar two cost over a million kunas, none of the openings of one share cost so much, we can throw a lot of things at each other, and we also don't want to do it on a flat-rate trip, because you have a kilometer of road that doesn't have one extra object, but only the lengths. You have a kilometer of highway, I have often listened for the Zagreb-Vlika Gorica-Sisak highway, so look only from that overpass in Buzin, to Vusevac how many auxiliary facilities you may not have at 40, 50 kilometers of some other highway. So let's do it once, and colleagues have already done it before, let some foreign expertise come and find out how much the road really costs. The other thing is, it's not the same to work a road in Dalmatia or somewhere in the valley. You dig up, you grind, you put it back, you put it back, and you're practically going to pave, and here in these low-rise parts you have to drive hundreds, hundreds of miles, you need land that's clayy, which swims you need to get rid of, so a million things, so that's what experts need to talk about... those of us who are not in it are hitting it lightly with something, because I say one auxiliary facility, a overpass with all access roads can cost like two, three kilometers of highways, and all of this goes at the price of miles of highways. [[You don't understand.]] So, I say let's talk on the ground, it's a matter of too important to use a low-political story, because look, it's not just 30 billion value highways, it's a lot of other things, and we're driving towards Split now, so let's see how far the cars go down that highway today, and then you'll talk differently about highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24487	Replication response, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24488	I'm sorry, pal, that we came here to discuss this at all, but simply the whole debate of some clubs is a debate about good law, which you have supported, I believe you will support it, therefore, by forcing the monetization of Croatian highways. That's one thing. I repeat, I'm sorry about that. And the other thing, Mr. Schucker, is not the difference in a mile, let the experts decide, but there was no difference in the mile there was a mountain cot or a Sisak, a Great Gorica. So you know where the highway stopped? Before Zadar. So in the same space, in the same area, in the same county, in the same junk, so the price was much more expensive, that's what I'm talking about, but I repeat, let the experts make that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24489	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24490	Dear fellow, you said one sentence is not selling roads because it's great, it's probably a lapus selling this, I guess. That's what I appreciate, that's probably. What's the point of democracy? I believe you don't monetize because it's wonderful. But what is the point of democracy? Respect the laws, laws of the Republic of Croatia. A conscious violation of the government's laws, which he himself admitted, despite the government's failure to propose, and the parliament did not adopt a state property management strategy force us to file a criminal application. It's a conscious violation of the law. It is a minorization of the Croatian judiciary, it is a minorization of this Parliament, and what our relationship was, us as parties. Take a look at the dates of the establishment, the action of our own and us individuals who have done other jobs before the party, you can also check it out. But there's still some difference. The former prime minister was petting money secretly, he did not boast that he would break the laws, he claimed he was not breaking the laws, he was petting money through black funds, which they had agreed with you, fingers many, and therefore there would be still a process because he couldn't steal so much alone. He had to have some helpers, and those helpers seemed to know nothing, but they all raised their hands for it. But that's one side of the story. We're talking about the other side of the story. We're not talking about what happened. We're talking about what's going to happen. You're the one who announced road monetization. We want to respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, and the law of the Republic of Croatia says that it cannot be entered into that process until a state property management strategy is adopted, and the prime minister says we did not bring it in, but we want to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24491	Replication response, Ivan Klarin. There's no answer. Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24492	Thank you very much. Well, I understand that you're temperamental, and that you're a little bit with some statements and you're stuck there which you know isn't, we didn't exist two years ago, and we couldn't sue Ivo Sanader as a representative club, so you couldn't, so you couldn't. You're telling your colleagues this is where you can talk and it's okay to talk. I also believe that you recognize the same right for us. Since this is definitely about the most important national interests, because if someone sells something and makes it known that they're still selling it under the law, and they say it itself, then it's not our right, it's our obligation to react. It's our responsibility. And when you put credibility on our noses. Now let me ask you, is there a credible prime minister who says within a few days that the state of emergency is going skiing? The same prime minister was the president of the strongest opposition parties when some strange coups took place in the ruling party at the time, and he was also skiing. What's, is he's credible, he's principled. Every time it's something Austria. I'm not gonna touch this, but now this moment has occurred to me, sometimes in the history of this place there was a family that was the same, when the caradum started, the wipe.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24493	Replication response, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24494	Mr. Novak, the Prime Minister was on the weekend, so I think it's his business. I think it's his thing more than once in these weeks, and Mr. Boris, I can't touch the Prime Minister now because he's very likely not watching this, so we understand each other. But I think it's his personal matter. Where are you going this weekend? And you'll probably be going on a trip this year, that's your personal matter. You're getting paid for it, and you can go wherever you want in your spare time, that's one thing. The second thing, that the lapus happened to me, so monetization doesn't sell, that's true, I apologize, and the other thing if you didn't exist as a party, you existed as an individual, and I guess the party is made up of individuals, people, individuals, then they can file a criminal report as an individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24495	Gold Comadin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24496	I was going to point out again that we're talking through this law just as far as I can see about monetization. Monitoring is primarily a political decision that can, and does not have to be, and regarding public finances. It's not about traffic or anything at all, it's about the state of public finances. And the concession would be or it would be technology, it would be technology if it even came to it. But what my colleague Schuker said, I agree that, in general, when you have a need and you don't have money, as he said, then he reaches out for concessions in some case, the concessions are generally made to whoever gives it, but we do have a series of cases that the concessionist, that the one that gives the concession pays like some roads. I'll tell you one example that I think would be good, and that's my legendary and yours for mentioning the yellow pool, right? The yellow pool is an extraordinary road for the concession. Extraordinary. You hire builders, 60, 70% are covered, 30% what? He pays the state in 20, 30, 40 years, how long he's gonna solve the concession. And she spins the GDP, and why the previous government has done with all due respect, so she talks about monetization. Because she was building highways that no longer returned by traffic from the government's office, or company. Today these companies cannot be serviced either HAC, nor... The only roads paid for are Rijeka-Zagreb, and Zagreb to free Belgrade, other roads are all unsuspecting roads in Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] And now this public debt is either going to be put into public debt, or we're going to go into some of these combinations that you're talking about today. Of course, once you've said something you're selling or giving, because if you're in some situation, what solutions you're going to bring. I say there are a number of positive examples of concessions, but now I don't have time through replicas, for example. The concession in the Church of Jurandvor was found on the island of Krk, where one family was given a concession, kept watch over that church, sold souvenirs, a wonderful example. I mean, there are good examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24497	Thank you. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24498	Well, here, Mr. Klarin, so now I've counted 6 of the marina's concentrated port of nautical tourism, only the government, the county don't know the number, I never counted it. As for the accuracy of the data, I know well how Mr. Komadin worked, we worked together for 6 or 7 years in Rijeka, but for the truth, so the most kilometers of maritime goods are in Zadar County and the Primorje-Gorski County as successful as it was is not the only county that has more port administrations, it is still Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and it is still Istrian County that has also. And as for that mile of highway, I must say, you mentioned a mile of highway in Zadar County. And me and you every week, we've been on the highway twice, along Zadar County, ever since, how many years back, ever since that highway was over, you've been driving one lane. It should be compared to a kilometer of equally completed highways, a descent from St. The time limit for Maslenica is resolved after it's been arranged I think for 4 years, so if at the basic price of that, that mile that was then built when you speak much cheaper than today add these costs that are being invested on that stock today, then surely that kilometre today would have been much more expensive if it had been arranged as required. I haven't driven since St. John's Day yet. The hand towards Maslenica, on this allegedly cheap and must be cheap when it is not finished, when that road was almost semi-arranged, the work is still being done daily on that road, and then, if it were to add these costs to that mile, it would surely be more expensive than one arranged highway as they were done at other locations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24499	Replication response, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24500	Thank you. So I'm just going to look back at the first part of your replica, 6 ports of nautical tourism are concentrated, how much is built? None. That's the third time I've said it. Not so, and here's the example of Tisnog, and we got a concession but we failed to build that marina because of speculant companies. So the only example where it will be built under this regulation, but it is not built in Dubrovnik, in the port of Gruž, but I do not think that Dubrovnik port of the port of nautical tourism can be compared to any other port of nautical tourism, with any other space in the Republic of Croatia. I mean, you can turn around now, but that's just a fact. I'm sorry that it is, I wish that in 2009, that regulation was better quality, and that in Tisni then in 2009, I built a port of nautical tourism, and that today I have a port of nautical tourism, and not that I don't have it, that there's a desert field there today like it was three years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24501	And Zlatko Tušak, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24502	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Klarin, you said why the Croatian Labourers did not file criminal charges against Ivo Sanader. Clearly, we couldn't stand it because we weren't in the Parliament at the time, but if we weren't in the Parliament, our current president, Dragutin Lesar, who launched an initiative for an investigative commission against Ivo Sanader and Zuzula in 2005. He did not support the SDP initiative when it came to determining responsibility against Ivo Sanader, it is true and it is facts. One of your representatives, and this is a colleague of Shima Luchin, he also signed that initiative, in order to then withdraw that initiative, here is only support for what you say, and how you do, which is completely contrary to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24503	Replication response, Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24504	When I speak, then I'm credible, and when I do it alone, and I believe it was, I don't believe it, it was SDP. Why did you take offense when I told you why you filed criminal charges against Zoran Milanovic today, and five years ago, you failed to file against Ivo Sanader. And if Mr. Lesar did it, well done, but it doesn't stand. Well done, your party president. But so he doesn't file any criminal charges that I was saying earlier, so they file with persons, natural persons who make up that party. And then if you submit today to what you have an absolutely legitimate criminal application against Zoran Milanovic, I am returning again to the person of X, the ipsion that I am not naming them now, so who signed this criminal application to file a criminal report three, five, 10 years ago or when the illegal actions of the gentleman concerned were established, not to mention him anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24505	Final word, on behalf of Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24506	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's almost after five hours of debate, the concession law here seems to be all these laws. ... Yeah, yeah, 'cause I'm here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, lately here's a lot of late hanging out with you at the debates, but I have to admit it means the same way as it did with the first reading, you've seen that we've adopted all these things that we actually considered useful in the debate, so in this respect you've seen for this report that's here for the first time, and we're hoping it'll be a practice in the future, that we'll file reports in this High House on concessions for the previous year. There will certainly help you and this register of concessions that we consider to be further developed, we think that this first part that has actually done as Mr. Shucker has said that it has been very difficult to form it we believe, and in the future it is a large number of contracts, broad areas, and that this is now one upgrade and all the time we talk, we talk and I think that this is the right way always when it actually comes to being upgrades, regardless of which authorities are coming, and I think it's the only right way, that everyone who continues actually upgrades this particular area. I would just like here a short sentence concerning this part of Article 5, where certain areas of concession are listed, I would not want it to be misunderstood, so it is not the area where this law is now specifically given that in these areas can... concessions are simply areas that are already, areas that are already legally defined. [[You don't understand.]] So we said that we have 18, 20 sectoral laws that defined these areas, so this is a general roof law that lists areas that are already defined. I believe that this debate in this part when you said that this part of everything is given natural wealth into invaluableness, so every law, every area that's passed the debate in this House, so each area has passed the debate in the High House, there have been laws, so there's nothing special about it that puts something special inside, which is already not defined by some special law. As you know, this law made huge progress in 2008 against the '92 law. in the year and that, that this is just a re-adjustment of the law that was very well laid down in 2008, so in 2012, it means some of the corrections that were to be made, where it was actually seen that certain conditions were difficult, in this sense it should be observed. So this is not an area, so they are the general law that is in line with the European Union directives, so it is one law that I think is very well affected because you yourself have defined here that there are very different areas of mining, to railways, to roads, they are only from all these, all these sublegal, all these sectoral acts have just been laid out that they cannot be outside that area, and in this sense they should also look at these additions to this law, so that this part of the context, where there are actually certain assessments, I agree, and we think that the Government is working transparently, and that in this House of Higher Education, it is also one law and this report that we have shown that we are transparent and that we always need to see in this context that every government that needs to be upgraded, and that we need to be more transparent in front of this House, so here I thank you for your constructive debate, I think it has been constructive. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24507	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24508	Final proposal of the concession law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 134. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline provided for by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 81 votes for, 34 votes against and 1 abstention accepted the proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask the applicant's representative to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Deputy Minister of Finance, respected Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24509	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As seen in the very debate of the Law on concessions where they were in fact intensities to protect the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, to add a specific article. So, we have respected such an opinion so that we have gone with the amendment of the Government, where paragraphs 5 and 6 are added in Article 5, which reads: "The Croatian Parliament may, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, propose a certain concession to the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and in the case of paragraph 5 of this Article, the procedure for granting such concession and other issues relating to that concession is governed by a special law in accordance with the provisions of this law. So that part is incorporated into this part of the law so let's actually say in a much clearer way now and even more transparently complements this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24510	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate. Only representatives of the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament can participate in the debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's up for the proposed amendment? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 30 votes against and 4 abstentions have been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. The amendments were also submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ in the Croatian Parliament. I'd like a representative of the government of the respected Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec to be shown about the amendments. Let's get this straight. Legislative Committee, Amendment No. Article 1
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24511	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24512	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment No. Article 2(2), second subparagraph, second subparagraph, point (a) and (b) of
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24513	It is not accepted in paragraph 1 because the applicant’s intention was to grant concessions to the public administration’s offices and, for that reason, to extend the concept of the state administration body. And it shall be accepted in paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24514	Okay, thank you very much. In a reduced form, it becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 3. on Article 5 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24515	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24516	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Article 6
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24517	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24518	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Article 9 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24519	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24520	It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24521	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24522	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. Article 24(7)
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24523	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24524	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24525	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24526	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. And Amendment No. Article 40, point (b) is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24527	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24528	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24529	The government doesn't accept an explanation. Thus, all issues related to concessions on highways and railway infrastructure were asked to be governed by a special law. So here I would point out once again, and that's why we went with the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where not only these two areas of highways and railways are being placed but all strategic issues mean a lot more than is defined by this amendment. They would also point out that Article 5(4) also defines and states that these areas are governed by a specific law in Article 5. So that part has already been arranged and we have been going through an even wider amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so all the wider areas that determine the government should be a strategic decision and therefore we cannot accept this narrow part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24530	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Gordan Jandroković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24531	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Regardless of the government's argument, one step has been taken, but in our opinion it is not enough and the HDZ Representatives' Club insists that concessions on highways or master's railway infrastructure should be regulated by a special law. Why are we talking about this? Because it is an extremely important strategic national interest to which a representative body should also be discussed. We feel that this needs to be regulated by a special law. Also, given the need to use that word of contrivement of the government, here we see that it is now giving up the low-rise rail, yesterday it was replaced and the entire HAC administration, we'll see how the process of so-called. Autoroad monetization. We believe that the Government, which is not professional enough, is worthy of its decisions that the Croatian Parliament cannot give her 100% responsibility to do so, we already believe that the Croatian Parliament should limit the room of the Government by its law and that the Croatian Parliament should be the one to determine such important topics. That's why I'm asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24532	Thank you very much. Please state who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour and 34 votes against the Treaty on concessions in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24533	And we move to the final point tonight - the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on Special Tax on Luxury Products, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 213 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance, the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the law of Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24534	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In front of you, the Law on the Termination of the Law on Special Tax on Luxury Products is before you. The reason for the adoption of the law attached is to prevent the removal of major disturbances in the economic sectors, covered by the taxation of this tax form, the Croatian tax system and the taxpayers of this tax form should be prepared in time for the functioning and operation of conditions in the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. It is, in particular, an inability to apply this tax in the circumstances of the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, to draw particular attention to this and to the need to take into account the fiscal impact of the tax and the cost of collecting it, and in particular to the impact on relevant economic sectors. The basic objective is to adapt that tax form to the circumstances of the environment and business on the single European internal market. In this environment, given the character of this tax form, Croatian taxpayers will be in a much more unfavourable position than economic operators in the environment due to a significant tax burden of luxury production circumstances that they will be easily available on the internal market. This will be achieved in certain ways by reduced VAT revenue and due to a total reduction in economic activity by reducing other tax revenues from the title... Taxes. [[You don't understand.]] The overall fiscal indicator indicates that the tax form in question is making negligible revenues for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and that, taking into account the administrative costs of tax collection and the implementation of tax control, and the impact on economic operators and their activities, and thus on the consumption of the subject of taxation on the Croatian market, it is already ineffective and insatiable tax form at the moment. Very short, so next year we enter the European Union, no more customs barriers. We believe, we believe that our entrepreneurs are small craftsmen who deal with certain occupations, especially in this area of gold processing and... We believe that when you no longer have customs duty simply one who wants to buy such a product goes beyond the limit and buys it for the amount where he pays a tax burden of 20%. [[You don't understand.]] If this remains means not that the burden is 25%, but still the burden is 30% by special tax, so the total burden of this product is 63%. So we're talking about competitiveness means 63%, so we're not saying now that we're removing this 25% tax burden, so we're removing the additional burden totaling 63%. We believe that especially in conditions where you no longer have the limits, that this part, in order to become more competitive than the neighbouring countries, that we should remove a special 30% tax because we believe that it did not give effect in the budget, and that if it remained, if it remained, our products in that competitive part would be 63% of the total tax burden if it went to Slovenia, the VAT burden of 20%, if it went to Bosnia and Herzegovina, would be 17%. So we're trying to nivell it that way that part of the industry that is small craftsmen in that part of it means you wouldn't want it, because in public debate here we're now removing the tax on luxury products, we're introducing bread and milk, we think this is a 63% tax burden, again I'm telling you 63% too much about that branch, and if we don't actually lose that part of VAT, we're going to lose this 25%, and this 25% we're going to lose, if we actually, because it's actually going to go across the road to Slovenia, it's going to buy that product, actually because there's no customs, there's nothing, we're actually going to lose this amount of 25%. So here we think that in this context we actually need to look at the adoption of actually this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24535	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. Club of HSU and colleague Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24536	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Retirement Party supports the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Law on Special Tax on Luxury Products. We agree that the tax form in question is negligible for the state budget and that, taking into account the administrative costs of harvesting and carrying out controls, it is already ineligible, ineffective and insatiable tax form at the moment. Also upon entering the European Union, it is clear that Croatian taxpayers will be in a more unfavourable position than economic operators in an environment that does not have a luxury tax in this form. Although it may seem contrary to logic that in the difficult economic situation in which we are located, the tax on luxury products is abolished, and it introduces VAT on basic food products, for example bread, in reality it is not. The tax on luxury products is charged for example. jewelry and related products. So I'll tell you one example of my friend who has a jewelry store, silver earrings of 0,47 grams have a sale price of 60 kuna, which includes a luxury tax of 11 kuna and a VAT of 12 kuna. I don't think 60 kuna silver earrings are a luxury. A very expensive set of jewelry, watches, clothes and leather shoes in Croatia are available to a very limited extent, so most customers bought them abroad and in passenger transport brought them into the territory of the Republic of Croatia by avoiding the luxury tax. Thus, in practice, the luxury tax is primarily charged on lower-value products, which extends the number of citizens buying and benefiting. However, while HSU supports the elimination of the existing luxury tax, primarily because it does not make sense in this form, we advocate the introduction of a new luxury tax that would include a larger number of higher-priced products. HSU considers that a lower VAT rate should be applied to clothing items, food and the like to a certain value, and a lower VAT rate should also be charged at the same rate of VAT. That's what I'd say. an ordinary shirt, cotton, short sleeves, let's say 100 kuna is subject to a 10% VAT rate, while some marked T-shirt that cost 500 kuna would sink the same VAT rate and a luxury tax of 30%. The same could apply to vehicles, to a certain price, would reduce total duties, while a luxury tax would be paid to vehicles above a given price. We believe that in this way the same value of taxes would be collected, many products would become more accessible to a greater number of consumers, while additional imposition would be paid to the same luxury. I tax on luxury isn't so common because it's unpopular, but it's a much more frequent form of progressive tax. Thus, products are paid a lower rate of tax up to a certain price, and more expensive products are subject to higher tax rates, although it is the same type of product. In many countries there is a tax on luxury, on real estate. In the case of a sale of property above a certain value, a luxury tax is paid differently. This tax is often hidden so it can be calculated as follows. It may be made easier on the first real estate, but instead of accounting for the entire amount of real estate value, it is calculated on the prescribed square of the person, or on a certain value. For example. If the tax is 1.5% and you buy the first real estate worth 100,000 euros, the relief is 95%. Then a 75-euro tax would be paid, and someone who bought an apartment of 200,000 euros would pay a tax of 575 euros. In this case, even though we don't have... The tax on luxury is very much included in the tax structure itself, so a higher tax is paid on more expensive properties, i.e. He's progressive. [[You don't understand.]] The luxury tax is very elastic economically, which means that by increasing the price, spending a lot of money is falling. Given the geographical location of Croatia where it is easy to buy abroad, it should be careful that the subject of taxation is products that can be controlled, e.g. Cars controlled by registration, real estate, as well as products for which they will not go abroad. Here it should be based on a lifestyle which is considered luxurious and on products above some value, it refers to restaurants, cafes and other such services. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Pensions Party will support the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Law on Special Tax on Luxury Products, but we encourage the Proposer to seriously consider the proposed proposals when upgrading the tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24537	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24538	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Associate. I'm just asking myself what kind of reaction it would have been if I had suggested three or four years ago with the same arguments of this law. Massacred through the media, butchered in this assembly, and today there are arguments anyway. However, I will speak here as a representative of the club, not as a former minister. At times when VAT jumps from 23% to 25%, in moments when electricity goes 20%, when my Goricans pay for heating 38.5% more expensive, Zagrebers are slightly lower, but Samobors, Zaprešniks, Sisnje and Sensed the same about 38%, at times when we have made a decision to abolish the zero VAT rate, this is at least a politically strange proposal for a decision, regardless of its fiscal, on its economic reasons, I can still understand that in this law we have abolished this special gold tax which our goldsmiths produce, processing to be competitive, it could understand, but I cannot possibly understand the pearls, diamonds, pumpkins, because unfortunately in Croatia the fursters have almost failed, almost no more, you in Zagreb do not know that you can find a few furs in which you can't fix and can't buy a pumpkin, so there's something that's a story. Clocks. As far as I know, we don't make watches in Croatia, and I don't see any reason why at this point we simply frustrated Croatian citizens after these increases with the story that should be lifted, because those watches will be bought outside, so those watches have been bought out so far. These watches are not only expensive in Croatia because of this excise part, but also because of the margin and everything expensive. It's the same story with the guns. However, very interesting pyrotechnic products for fireworks, 3 or 4 years ago no one thought about these Samobors who made the factory, have a factory in China, and are competitive everywhere in the world, so today there's a justification for everything, and there was a crisis in 2009, and then these goldsmiths, I have in Gorica two great goldsmiths who have even authentic gold products with a protected name and appearance and everything, but then when it was just a sign from the Ministry of Finance that would have abolished that tax primarily because of these goldsmiths, the reaction on this left side of the Parliament was more than thunderous, and precisely because of that, and for the reason I said 23 to 25, electricity 20, gas 37, heating 38 and half, bread and milk with 0.5 simply have no human or moral power to raise my hand for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24539	Thank you. Club of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties, and colleague Nancy Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24540	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate and colleagues. We can't talk about this law without mentioning bread and milk, even though it was the deputy in his opening statement who warned us about it. It seems that our entry into the European Union and our alignment with the regulations of the European Union are causing some real tectonic disturbance in our logical thinking. Indeed, at this time when almost 33% of Croatian citizens are, or more precisely, almost a million and 500 citizens live on the very edge of poverty after the last survey, that is to say, the elimination of a tax on luxury, I don't even know what word I would use to describe how it is for these citizens who have not only forgotten long ago what a luxury is, but simply that word in them is an aversion to everything that is done. With the same arguments that we justify 6 months before the introduction of the tax on bread, milk, medicines, books, we also justify the elimination of the luxury tax, which is to adapt to the entry into the European Union. Here's a colleague Shuker talking about how many furrows there are in the Republic of Croatia, how many entrepreneurs in Croatia we claim to be able to help them break this tax. Very, very little. And I think it's also hypocritical to talk now that we want to help the craftsmen in Croatia by abolishing this tax, and a few days ago we introduced fiscal registers with a dictionary that could be large majority of them and shamed, for what we called these same craftsmen and those same entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. So the fact is, and it says something's wrong. From day to day, we change our thinking, change our criteria, make laws as it seems to us, but I think by passing this law, no matter what you say, it causes the cost of implementing tax policy, I don't think it's going to stick to it, and even less, it's going to stick to it when you say that by breaking this law, we're going to help these entrepreneurs do better business. If I have to buy a fur coat that costs 25 thousand kuna, whether or not I cut this tax or not, I'm going to buy it in Bosnia, because there's 18% tax there, unlike our 25% VAT, and again I'm going to make a thousand and 700 kuna. So the bill doesn't hold our water, and that's what's not good. It interferes with this reasoning of the law for me personally, and I think the vast majority of my colleagues here in the assembly who are thinking the same way, when you say it is a negligible income for the Ministry of Finance for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. So in that projection we got, we're going somewhere with about 32 million kuna in a year and a half, and now if we're doing the math again, yesterday we voted in this same House budget for 2013, of all the proposed amendments, the government has not proposed any amendments. If we had another six months of tax until we enter the European Union of luxury taxes, so if we had to take it off, but let's take it off, if we were to earn half of it in those six months, meaning somewhere around 11 million kuna, then let's say we could adopt yesterday a birth certificate in Djakova, we could adopt an amendment to subsidize Sinjska Alka, we could adopt an amendment to the Imotski police station, we could adopt a prison amendment in Sibenik and not add any more. So these are just some of the things that do not make sense to the citizens of Croatia, they are not logical I mean to the vast majority of us here in the Parliament, and they are not good. On Friday, when the conditions come to pass, this law will be passed anyway, you will vote what you intended, and even this kind of attempt is to point out some illogicalness that we are doing, so here is a vain battle with the windmills. However, some things are not good, especially at this time of naked survival as I have said, and once again I underline almost a million and 500 thousand inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia who are barely gathering an end to end, which is not our data, these are world data, meaning agencies that are not sentimental, which are objective in these analyses, and I think that all of this is very, very heartless to these citizens, no matter what our justifications are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24541	Thank you. Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24542	I'm going to give you colleagues of Tyrells just a brief replica, and that's what you said what you were doing and proposed by the government is illogically the vast majority of MPs in the Parliament. That means six.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24543	HNS Club and counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24544	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Good evening, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club. I didn't want to replicate to a colleague who spoke earlier on behalf of the club, but that's why I want to point out on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, which is why the club supports this law, not because we are insensitive to the unemployed and the social situation in which there are a large number of people in Croatia, I think the reasons why we are known are in this situation, and it is very clear and why the Croatian government and this coalition are really and the Croatian Parliament with legislation, all instruments and measures are trying, and the results are quite finally on the point that there will be both development and employment with the natural stability of the financial system which is the key that we can even ensure this development. The law essentially refers to 294 goldsmiths in Croatia, there were more last year, but they had to close. This law refers to 20, exactly 20 production crafts for skin and fur that managed to survive in the Republic of Croatia, so these are the Frisces would tell me the data from the crafts chamber of 140 production crafts that were, but it refers to those who, production crafts that managed to survive those 735 that dealt with and non-metallics, production crafts that have a thousand 967 dealing with other metals, and production crafts that deal with different finished products, are 837, or so on I do not list somewhere 9 thousand 522 crafts of production crafts, which can or directly touch this law. Now that's a law that ensures further employment and competitiveness, primarily crafts, because this law is most often tied to crafts. I will not now talk about service crafts, and the hunters that are in Croatia 65,000, who with this law can get better equipment, and of course those who will maintain, have the opportunity to maintain that equipment. Whether to talk about the processing of proteins, turtles, it has no need, the law must also include some segments that may not be directly related to some major traffic, but when we talk about the processing of gold, and goldsmiths, then we also talk about one tradition, a service activity that exists in Croatia as a tradition. And this law ensures that tomorrow and this purchase of gold which, which is currently in Croatia, remains in Croatia at the end of that gold, is not exported, and this law essentially ensures employment and development no matter how much it seems to you to be a law against the rich, and this law is not only about the rich, because I believe that all those who got married have bought a ring, or rings, that all those who believed, who had and baptized children, or they have baptised or honored that they also bought gold jewelry. So this isn't just a law for the rich, this is a law that provides for those who, for such moments, would tell me everything, also ensures that it is more favourable. So this law has a slightly broader aspect than the classic one, because I really have to be surprised not to support this law, because it's called a law that takes off excise duties for luxury, I don't know how it should be called to make it sound better, but it's better to seem luxury, because it's still elements and these are all diamonds and gold still belong to a certain luxury. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, we support this law, and yet I think it would be good if this law had entered into force, because probably one part of the jobs would have been saved, and we would have managed to ensure what is important for this production, that craft and certain services are particularly traditional, some of the skills that really exist in certain crafts, old crafts that they could have continued and not shut down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24545	Thank you. Replica, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24546	My colleague, I don't think so, and I wouldn't agree with you if this was a good instrument, I'd rather say this is a broken violin in a broken orchestra. You said this would ensure further employment and competitiveness. I tried to make an example of it before, given that we have the largest VAT in this region, it will still be cheaper to go to Italy, and it will still be cheaper to go to Austria, Hungary, Bosnia and Herzegovina and half to list for all that luxury if you already have money to afford it. Goldsmithing you said it was a tradition and that to preserve tradition it was also good for this law to be abolished. We have a crafts school for jewelers in Croatia. How many jewelers or furrowers are employed, how many employees are there? You've been talking about trades now and you're talking about further employment and competitiveness, but I'm afraid you don't have any projections of how many new employees they're going to be able to hire at the expense of what we're taking off their taxes. And one more thing. You said it was a tradition. Yes, it is, but we have many traditions in the Republic of Croatia that we do not respect. One of the traditions of the Republic of Croatia is also agriculture, for example, so we often forget it, and I think that it is precisely where we might hire more new workers to continue to strengthen competitiveness, rather than to strengthen the luxury of coats and rings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24547	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24548	Dear colleagues, this government is not a fragmented orchestra, this is one that you want to understand or not, I, as a government with a strong coalition who knows what and how it works, thinks there is really no reason to discuss it at all, but when we talk about competition of jewellers and products that will be in Croatia compared to neighbouring countries, so this is not about trade when we talk about goldsmiths, this is about skills, about knowledge, we can say in part and art, therefore in this segment competition is in quality, and not just in VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24549	And Zlatko Komadina, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24550	Well, I wanted to tell Mr. Gjurkovic that the law was stupid while he was in effect, which Mr. Schooker confirmed. It's a law only for those countries where you can't get out of the country, so you have to shop in your country. Under this law, only one, in Croatia, bought these products by the one who had to buy them in Croatia. Well, no one's ever bought you live in Croatia. Well, you said that in your discussion, Mrs. Tyrell, that you would buy a coat or buy it in Bosnia and Herzegovina, right? I mean, by the way, I have to tell you a little bit, it's not very patriotic, because otherwise the tax would have been paid in Croatia if you had bought a coat in Croatia, and that VAT would have gone to the Croatian state, and by the way you broke a law because you didn't pay customs when importing a pumpkin from Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24551	And we move on to an individual debate, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24552	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Deputy Minister with an associate. The elimination of the luxury tax is a great move by the government, brave and prosperous. Croatians and Croats of life interest are cultured pearls, non-industrial diamonds processed, precious stones processed, gold filigree products, their parts of silver, Croats and Croats are important gold filigree products of precious metals, products of precious metals dragged and platinum with precious metals, products of natural cultured pearls, suitable coins including gold money have a lot of it, then hand-made, pocket and other personal watches, we know this by Sanader, belts and bracelets for hand watches, parts for belts and bracelets, clothing, fur shoes and skin and reptiles, are mad Croatians and Croats for reptiles. It is good that this excise duty is abolished 6 months before it is necessary, in order for customers to relax, not to put 10 million kunas in the budget. Who needs another 10 million in Croatia when we're a rich country. It is good that 6 months before it is necessary to introduce VAT on food, milk, medicines, books, cinema tickets, who else is interested in books in Croatia or who cares about lower prices of bread? No one. It certainly doesn't matter in Croatia. I'm interested in who you're doing it for, asking the members of the government, and what universe are you living in?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24553	And a colleague of mine would like to join you, so I'd say that Croatians and Croats and citizens of other nationalities will enjoy it, perhaps even tourists when you discuss it like this. Zlatko Komadina has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24554	Well, I wanted to say that it's fortunate that no one listens to us, because Mr. Vuksic I doubt you have any of those products you've listed. I doubt you do. So you bought them, and we bought them all in this hall, and they bought them all in Croatia. And if we've already bought them, it would be good to buy our homework if there are, and it would be good to buy them 30% cheaper than to go out and pay our taxes to our country, if we're going to. So this discussion of yours too, Mr. Schucker, the demagogue reserve, that you will now be against it because you must be, and you yourself wanted to propose. ... Okay, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24555	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24556	Dear colleague Komadina, if the debate is demagogue, then this is your short one. First of all, sarcasm is also acceptable in the Parliament, and people get what I'm talking about, and people know what we're talking about. This was a style figure you should have recognized. The thing is, six months before entering the European Union, this government imposed on what it didn't need, it was bread, milk, books, cinema tickets, professional magazines. She shouldn't have, and the drugs, she shouldn't have, and she did, and she gave it to the poorest in Croatia, six months before she had to lift this load. What are we talking about? We do not fight to get rid of it when we enter the European Union, but why do you do it luxury, take off the luxury of 6 months, and what is most necessary for Croatians and Croats and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia to avoid confusion was also a figure of style before, imposing 5%, for what? Do you care about Croatian citizens? It's not safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24557	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24558	Well, look, this is usually how in these late hours you can give birth to good-looking tax ideas, so probably this tax was born in one late hour. I'll tell you about an anecdote, like this at this time, we were also discussing a special tax on alcoholic beverages,... One colleague suggested, and it cost unfortunately the producers of alcoholic beverages in Croatia ugly. [[You don't understand.]] But this is one tax that definitely fiscal counterpart Vuksic means nothing. Someone once introduced him and all attempts to help goldsmiths who really work and produce to end it, because it was really pointless, were encountered by such attacks on the other side and prepared... The fire on Croatian media as if at least it were billions, so that tax that was definitely supposed to help, first of all I'm talking about goldsmiths, it's one trade that is valuable, and I say I have two great men in Gorica who have both their own products and are known, and I can say all over Europe for them, but unfortunately precisely because of the demagogue approach of the other political options, there was no change in that law. [[You don't understand.]] And like this, in these late hours, we discussed the Act on Special Tax on Alcoholic Drinks in 2002, and then colleague Cain banged the amendment to get that special tax per litre of alcohol up 100%, which was voted. No one has ever thought about what it means for the liquor manufacturer, look, we all understand, we can sell demagogue with it today, but we wouldn't prevent any less alcoholics, or anything, but let's just say some companies that produced alcoholic beverages just fell to their knees, because all those who were selling drinks without excise duties were far, far cheaper. However, because of this political pressure, no one, who has tried to change that law, I have tried to change it three or four times, but you come across such a wall that it simply failed to do so, but what is the situation in Zvecevo, in Badel and in some other companies that I don't speak, we are precisely because of one such law, but also this law. So he was fiscally never interesting, and then while there was a better time in Croatia, while he was a higher standard we didn't help these goldsmiths, I speak primarily of them, because it's a trade that needs to be kept and which is valuable. Well, here's the thing, since it's about to end a little bit longer. So we're simply showing all of ours to say political stupidity in certain moments, and now, in the end, with demagogy, we want to justify something that was a disaster yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24559	But you had most of it, you could have ended it most of it like we're going to do now with our majority. And colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic Excuse me, the reply to the replica Branko Vuksic. [[/Intruder: Answer, don't I?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24560	Dear fellow Shuker, no one complains, nor do we have to impose taxes when we need to, it is 1.7, when we enter the European Union, and perhaps not 1.7, I will not be a wicked prophet. So we've introduced a tax before, and that's the greatest imposition of those who are the poorest, which is why we haven't spared them that. This is just a symbolic level, this is an indicator of the character of the government and the way that government rules, because it doesn't care if anyone has money, who doesn't have money. To many people it means a lot, we've calculated 130 kunas a month, by 6 months they'd have burned people. And secondly, try to fight the laborers with the goldsmiths, it won't work for you, we have amongst our ranks the jewellers, therefore it's not done at all, it's such a demagogy that everything can be justified and that, however, the goldsmiths are good with us and will remain good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24561	And Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24562	Dear colleague, I have no intention at all of discussing who you're going to argue with or not, but if you don't support this law then you're working directly at the abolition of jobs, and there's no big debate. What does this have to do with this story of bread and milk, and others... No, this is one of the laws that ensures the development and rescue of jobs. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24563	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24564	Here you can see very briefly how the government of Zoran Milanovic will create new jobs. Here's the proof.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24565	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later. Tomorrow we start at 9:30 with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Labour Protection Act. Have a nice evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-05-0.u24566	Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on Special Tax on Luxury Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 213 The debate on the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 35 votes against the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Law on Special Tax on Luxury Products in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
