ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13851	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Given this secret service situation, about listening, I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13852	Okay. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13853	On behalf of the SDP club, I've been looking for a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13854	Thank you. Any more requests? Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13855	On that trail, I'm looking for the same break of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13856	Thank you. Are there any more interested? I'm realizing there isn't. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes. Thank you very much. I'll see you in, it's 35, 15, 9.50. Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs, dear colleagues, we can hear representatives of the clubs seeking a break. First is the HDZ club and respected representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13858	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ club has asked for a break to express their dissatisfaction and concern over a major scandal and an affair that is rocking the national security system. Due to the scale of this affair, we have been considering seeking the arrival of Prime Minister Milanovic here in the Croatian Parliament to report to the Croatian Parliament, but also the entire Croatian public on the causes, but also on how to overcome this extremely unpleasant situation in this important system of security for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But after yesterday's press conference called by the president of the state and the president of the Croatian government and all that was said there by Croatian Prime Minister Milanovic, we concluded that it is better for the national security system that he spoke as little as possible. Because twisting facts and banalizing events only brings oil to the fire and does not contribute to calming the situation and determining the truth about this scandal. The question is, does Mr Milanovic support the legality of all the participants in the security system or does he want to create a police state? Several important issues Prime Minister Milanovic will have to answer. Among other things, why hasn't he called a council meeting since the start of his term of office as chairman of the National Security Council? Why did he not provide an annual guideline on the work of security services and the work programme of the security services and the entire security system? Why did he replace the head of the National Security Council Office who fulfilled his legal obligation to exercise supervision of operational technical centres? Both these findings and the findings they found informed the president and the prime minister of his legal obligation. If it is true that police have requested the phone records of the director of Mr Buljevic's security intelligence agency, has Minister Ranko Ostojic fulfilled his legal obligation to do so or the fact that they have requested the phone or phone number from Mr Buljevic? Did he immediately meet the president and prime minister because it is his legal obligation? Banalising the list measures will not provide an answer to these issues, such as mentioning the contacts of SOA chiefs in the context of links with criminals, cannot be clouded that we are from a country with a regulated security system, as all reports, all services, including the supervision of that portfolio, have shown that there have been no irregularities and have so far worked in accordance with the law. The witness and surveillance of NATO and European Union security inspection teams that have given the security system the highest possible rating. In view of the above, the HDZ Club is in accordance with Article 91 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The constitution will launch an investigative committee to identify all the facts important for overcoming this emerging situation. Otherwise, it would also be common if the practice of the European Union had already been applied, the interior minister would have resigned, or the prime minister would have requested his resignation due to the scale of this affair and all the circumstances that led to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13859	Thank you, too. A SDP club and respected representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13860	It is our interest for the services to work in accordance with the law and to be supervised in accordance with the law, it is the democratic interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know what your methods are and how you've set these things up so far, but they're democratic standards and we'll stick to them and we'll build them in the Republic of Croatia. For 9 months, people in responsible positions in the intelligence community had the full trust of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and what had taken place in certain changes, came under the law because the mandates had expired, there were no changes. What is important to the Croatian public is that the Croatian public was spotlessly, quickly and transparently informed of things happening through the press conference of the Minister of Interior and afterwards through a joint press conference of the presidents of the state and prime ministers. If the right of truth is to be established, then it is done through parliamentary supervision and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament which has absolutely all the legal powers to carry out full supervision, which is mentioned several times by the Prime Minister and the president in his press conference. And if you want to keep on making noises, twist facts, talk about some reports that we some don't know we haven't seen, you might have read them, I haven't, then you're looking for an investigative committee that, unfortunately, will not be able to obtain all relevant information for a simple reason because of the degree of secrecy and that some documents cannot be declassified to that level. Reports from all relevant participants in this case have been requested by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, as you know by that committee chaired by the president of the opposition, the Committee is composed of all members of the clubs of this Parliament and it has absolute opportunity and legal basis to carry out full supervision. That's what we want, that's what we're going to do and not one thing will be hidden from the Croatian public, which is also very clearly shown by public statements both by the prime minister and the president. It is therefore an impression that at the moment that some people have made wrong moves, and they have received some trust for the past nine months and when it comes to having to leave, it is then shown that they were party-positioned people and that we are making noise not because of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but because of certain individuals in the intelligence community who have been positioned as being positioned all these years. We stand firm in this, and we believe that it is the democratic interest of Croatian citizens to make clear the full truth, and only we can do so through the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. And if you may not be informed as vice-president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security regarding the chairman of the Committee, We agreed with the stranger absolutely and requested all the reports necessary. I repeat again you are talking about some things that are written in the media, I want to talk about relevant facts that will be delivered in accordance with the Law of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13861	Thank you, Your Honor. Followed by the IDS club and the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13862	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Someone might say where there's a lot of people say there's smoke and there's fire. If all is legal, that someone has asked why the person who did all this was removed. But I ask myself a question, should the president of the state, should the Prime Minister not have his own people in these systems. Clearly, if someone should be nervous, it should primarily be those shifts that will follow from crime miles, but it is clear to me that some people who are in the system but also some people who have come out of the system, who have been serviced or informed by that system at the very least of one illegal behavior. If someone has exceeded power, it's the same thing, he's got to deal with the consequences. Listening to President Josipovic yesterday, Milanovic, I believe it did not happen, but no matter what they say just as the SDP club president said earlier, all claims should be clearly checked. The people deserve the truth, I believe the truth is on the side of our presidents. Perhaps this is another truth or another example that the government should have acted more promptly. The changes in that SOA may have been due nine months ago, a new government, a new team. Now you can see that this unscathed is simply costing. Who's it cost? First of all, it costs actual power. On the other hand, it is more or less clear to us that one intelligence apparatus is watching over the other person who may not be able to, and that at the moment one feels threatened, and this is the time when a change occurs at the head of the SOA, this reacts, how, so that the other apparatus, or through it, calls people from the current government. The intelligence apparatus was in the 1990s, so I'm going to say one mechanism of political pressure, human rights abuse, abuse. Today, not today, for 10 years, he's been reforming himself, but the government from all of this, at least I want to believe, needs to come out uncircumcised. Mr. Bajic, seven days ago after this pay phone, claimed that two USKOK police officers or police UskoKOK had knocked down 3 out of 4 USKOK actions. They released that case from medical school. In these two, three other cases, for example. were people from some big monopoly companies. A few tycoons in this country are actually a state in the country. I'd also like to know if any of them have a link or if they're paying politicians? Very possibly. Mr. Bajic mentioned 1500 to 1700 people tapped, mostly from that crime scene. Here in these investigations, at least in the media, the pillars of society are mentioned. Something big was behind the scene. Will it see the light of day? It remains to be seen. When it comes to tycoons, those who are pillars of these states will certainly not be threatened by such measures. They'd be threatened if someone dared to try the revision of conversion and privatisation. What I think is that this intelligence or repressive apparatus can't be so autonomous that there's no control over it, so it's just a matter of saying, so they're professionals, so let's do what they like. If that were the case, it would look like totalitarian structures, and the state of Croatia certainly is not allowed to become one. The system needs to be monitored, and without supervision, everything simply threatens to freak out and somehow collapse into itself. And I agree that a debate should be opened, any doubt should be removed that the government did not participate in this, but it should also be allowed to let the authorities take action so that these bodies do not become almighty, and clear parliament and others should be monitored by those services. I agree that this is one of the most serious tests of this government so far, but I will also say I personally trust both presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u13863	Thank you very much. We've finished discussing the registered clubs. I would say, therefore, that the Croatian Parliament is the central democratic place and the democratic body of Croatian and Croatian citizens, the representative body of Croatian citizens, and it is good that initiatives are coming, and it will shape its initiatives in the forms foreseen by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I'd just like to say one more note, in Article 63. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which determines and determines the scope and competence of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I think that is paragraph 2 and I will read it for the sake of the Croatian public: the Committee shall supervise the security and intelligence agencies in accordance with the law, especially with regard to the protection of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, and shall give an opinion on the appointment of the Head of Security Services in accordance with the Constitution. So, the possibilities of what the Rules of Procedure gives are known. Now, we would like to move on to work on a set agenda by our respected colleagues and respected fellow MPs. Now, we would like to move on to work on a set agenda by our respected colleagues and respected fellow MPs. It is - Proposal for a Law on Election Registration, first reading, PZ No. 171 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The motion for an act, you've received the bill into the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law, namely the provisions of Articles 144 to 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received reports from those committees at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister Arsen Bauk, Minister of Management. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18479	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to say that this law comes into the first reading after the Croatian Parliament has discussed the Law on residence in the first reading, that is, the law that will replace the current law on residence and residence of citizens. Another reading should come after the Parliament discusses and adopts a new law that will settle the issue of residence or residence. I will use the term residence as legal now in the debate, and in this text is the term permanent residence by methodically giving that explanation. So first of all, I would like to remind myself of constitutional provisions that regulate therefore the issue of voting rights and voting rights. They are located in three parts of the Constitution, which is basic in Article 45, which says: Croatian citizens aged 18 (the voters) have the general and equal right to vote for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the European Parliament and in the decision-making process in accordance with the law. According to the current Law on the List of Voters, this under the law had a limited interpretation because this law took away a group of Croatian citizens from 18 years of age, and it was about persons who were deprived of their ability to do business. About that later. Item 2: In elections for the Croatian Parliament, voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia have the right to choose three MPs in accordance with the law. Therefore, the second paragraph of this article introduces the concept of residence for those citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. There's no telling where they're staying. Paragraph 3 states: In the elections for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the European Parliament, and in the decision-making process in the national referendum, voting rights are exercised in direct elections by secret ballots, where voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia exercise their right to vote at polling stations in the headquarters of the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in the foreign state in which they reside. Therefore, in addition to the restrictions in paragraphs 2 and 1, another restriction is introduced in the Constitution in the sense that they may be polling stations outside the Republic of Croatia. The fourth item in the elections for the Croatian Parliament, the Presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the European Parliament, and in the decision-making process in the national referendum, also ensures the achievement of the electoral law of the Republic of Croatia for its citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in the context of electoral law, citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia are first introduced, who, at the time of the election, are found outside its borders so that they can vote in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the foreign state in which they are located or in any other way by law. Therefore, these are the provisions of Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which speaks in its first sentence of general and equal voting law, and in the second and third paragraphs, this general and equal voting law is limited to citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, hence the diaspora, limited it in a way that they have the right to choose a representative and where they have the right to vote. I would like to say this because the issue of the vote of Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia was one open issue in the agreement on the change of the Constitution in 2010 and this standard of paragraphs 2 and 3 was one compromise between political parties and political groups on how to regulate therefore the electoral right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia. In addition, Article 15 also speaks of electoral law. The Constitution, which states in paragraph 3, in its paragraph 2, can therefore, in addition to general voting law, provide national minorities with a special right to choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament. There were also large debates on this item of the Constitution. In 2010, the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and subsequently amended the Law on the Selection of Representatives for the Croatian Parliament, which the Constitutional Court called for in this paragraph of the Constitution, abolished. The third constitutional provision on voting law is also set out in Article 133. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the Chapter – local, local and regional (regional) self-government which therefore tells citizens to be guaranteed the right to local and regional, or regional self-government. The right to self-government is exercised through local or regional (regional) representative bodies which are composed of members elected in free and secret elections on the basis of direct, equal and general voting rights. And this election law is regulated in the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Elections of Representative Authorities and the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors, etc. which gave citizens the right to vote in local elections the basis of their residence. Therefore, not all citizens of the Republic of Croatia can exercise this right in local elections but based on residence. These are therefore restrictions or frameworks within which the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to move when proposing the Law on the Register of Voters. So this is how we defined the framework in which we could discuss this law in which we could move when we proposed, and now I'm going to represent how we regulated the electoral law in this framework that I've quoted by the Constitution. First, it has become somewhat embellished to compare the list of voters and the census. When we talk about comparisons in the Republic of Croatia according to the report of the MUP, there are a total of 5 million citizens who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, while at the same time there are around 4 million and 400 thousand listed in the census. So we come up with a difference of about 600 thousand people more in residence records than in the census. So that's where the minors are involved. When you look at the voters' list, it's proportionally down by the share of minors, so it's somewhere the difference between 400 and 500 thousand. Of course, it is entirely justified to note this comparison that the list of voters and the census are guided by different methodologies, which is correct. However, in all parts of the Republic of Croatia and the census and the list of voters are conducted according to the same methodologies, yet in some parts of the Republic of Croatia, the difference between the voter census and the census is lower and in some parts of the Republic of Croatia the difference between the census and the voter list is lower. What parts are this about? I will be very open about two species or two groups of parts of the Republic of Croatia, and one, one, I will speak in one order, one in the other, one part of the Republic of Croatia, where most of the Serb population who remained in residence records before the war, are indeed located somewhere outside the Republic of Croatia, so in BiH, Serbia or in the overseas countries. The second is, therefore, the second part of the area we are talking about is the border areas of the Republic of BiH, where on the other side of the border lives in the majority of which the Croatian population of which is a very large majority or almost all of them have Croatian citizenship. So these are two groups, these are two groups of areas in the Republic of Croatia in which to the most extent there is this difference between the census and the voters list. And these facts are very often used, therefore, in a political debate where one part of the political spectrum emphasizes the area in which Serbian national residents lived before the war, while another part of the political spectrum emphasizes these areas where the majority Croatian population lives along the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. And of course there are some areas where there are both, so the case and there are, of course, the biggest differences. The register, i.e. the list of voters or the register of voters, is a record which is actually what is now a list of voters, in which all Croatian citizens remain. Because the constitution says they are in the register of voters, so all Croatian citizens from 18 years of age are exercising their right to vote. The current law I said recognises the exception of persons deprived of their business ability, which we already have, so also the demands of civil society and the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities to regulate their electoral rights in a different way. And that's one frame, so the register of voters, a framework that will remain similar to, like, now a list of voters. While, in the Ministry of Interior and police stations, records of the residence on which the voters' register is based and which is in fact the biggest problem in the whole collocks, so questions about the voters' census, so until it is settled, when changes or the new Law on residence are made, of course. How do you regulate, therefore, the electoral right? Undoubtedly, he had 3 or 4 groups of citizens exercising voting rights in different ways. One is Croatian citizens who have residence in the Republic of Croatia and they are in one register. The second group is Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and are in the second register and are otherwise entitled to vote. The third group is citizens of the Member States of the European Union who exercise the right to vote, in local elections, or in elections for representative bodies. And the fourth group, which is a subset of those first groups, are therefore members of national minorities who have residence in the Republic of Croatia who exercise their, therefore, additional voting rights in the elections for the Croatian Parliament, in the elections for the bodies of the executive authorities in local self-government units where they exercise the right to the Constitutional Law and exercise the right to vote for therefore, the Council of National Minorities, also where, under the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Register of the Council of National Minorities, they exercise that right. For each of these, therefore, a group of voters have predicted how power will exercise its electoral right without taking away no one's right to vote. First as regards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with residence in the Republic of Croatia. We predicted, therefore, that the register of voters should be led to the place of residence. Given these differences that I was saying and the awareness that there are a large number of non-citizens in the register of voters in the Republic of Croatia who have not been in the Republic of Croatia for a long time, which are listed in the list of voters, we have provided for another instrument that, therefore, a certain number of citizens, would have to take another step to achieve their voting right, which is to extract the certificate. It exists now, but now we're going to do it a little bit. Therefore, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have residence in the Republic of Croatia and valid IDs are included in the list of voters from the register of voters. There are about 3,750,000 of them, which is a much more realistic number than the current 4,100,000 that we have in the list of voters in the Republic of Croatia. How can the remaining 339 650 exercise their right to vote? In such a way or, therefore, it shall bring its status and its personal documents in accordance with the law, so that it has a valid identity card, which is some minimum that the State should require of the individual or, on the day of the election, to go to the competent office of the state administration, to obtain confirmation and by virtue of that certificate, to be entered in the list of voters. The question arises is whether this step that we have predicted is in some way a restriction on the right to vote, and is that how we cross the line that would bring this law into the balance of unconstitutional? We don't think so. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The I.D. Act is prescribed as evidenced by the identity card, I will read it: "The I.D. is a public document to which a citizen proves his identity, which is important for the vote, Croatian citizenship, which is also important for the vote, the date and place of birth, which is also important for the vote because it must be proved to be a full-time person, the place of residence and the address of the residence, which is also important for the vote." For these are all, therefore, all and none else are the conditions which therefore speak of where, how, and who doth exercise his electoral right. Article 2 also states that persons over 16 years of age are obliged to have an identity card. So all voters, all voters are legally required to have a ID card. And of course there's another point, that the right to an ID card has a person under the age of 16. And the following articles also speak when a citizen is obliged to replace his ID card, so in the event of a change in any information containing a ID card. In this way, Croatia will get a description of voters who are more suited to the real situation, and on the other hand, those citizens who have not regulated their status or their personal documents will get reasons to do so more to avoid being in breach. And also those citizens who have been in the residence records and have not been in Croatia for the past 20 years will not change anything because if they haven't been in Croatia for the last 20 years they couldn't vote. So the basic message is that citizens with regular and valid personal documents will not change anything by this law and that we will get a more realistic list of voters. The second group of citizens are citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. So, with the restrictions set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is technically more difficult to exercise its right to vote than to those who have residence in the Republic of Croatia. The list of voters includes about 450 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. The list of voters in Croatia also includes one part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who actually live abroad and have for some reason a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia. The list of voters contains a number of deceased persons. Why? Because it is about Croatian citizens who have dual citizenship and who have passed away in a country where they have that other citizenship and that state is not obliged to report to the Republic of Croatia on the fact. So it's about citizens who have residence both in Croatia and somewhere else and died out there, they stay in the list of voters in Croatia because the Republic of Croatia does not immediately get information about their deaths while in Croatia it is happening right now because they are connected bases. And secondly, we have persons who have also died who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and who remain in the list of voters. In the draft law, we have provided for an active registration institute in this case where Croatian citizens who wish to exercise their right to vote for the Croatian Parliament, for the EU Parliament and for the president of the Republic of Croatia and for the state referendum would do so by actively registering in a diplomatic and consular representation in which they wish to exercise their electoral right. On the one hand, we are looking for an additional step for citizens, and on the other hand, we are making it easier for those citizens who have changed information about their address abroad and are located somewhere else and have old data left in their passport because they are not obliged to change their passport if they change their address abroad. What do we get by that? We will get a more realistic number of voters interested in voting in the Republic of Croatia, which in some of the next election cycles would allow us to introduce some other instruments to achieve our electoral right, not to vote in diplomatic and consular representations. If we can achieve a kind of consensus about this because this requires some intervention in the Constitution, then this active registration institute should be considered as an attempt to obtain a real list of voters abroad and facilitate the voting rights of those citizens. If we look at the other side, then we can say that this is one step that further makes it difficult for citizens abroad. Since it is possible to make an active registration, I believe that it is not true on the day of the election. So a citizen who comes to the diplomatic and consular representation on election day can perform an active registration and vote. So we're going to have in the list of voters for abroad instead of 450 thousand citizens of whom I said one part of the deceased but I don't think that's the biggest problem because it's never happened that someone from the cemetery came to vote and went back to the cemetery, so in that case this will be one instrument that will facilitate the exercise of voting rights in the diaspora. So it's just a question of how we look. And I would like to convince MPs that this should be seen as a relief to the exercise of the electoral right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia abroad. If I fail to convince you, then the active registration will be in another time, and will continue to vote as it is voted since the constitution significantly reduces the number of polling stations abroad. The third thing I want to stress is the issue of voting by members of national minorities in polling stations. One of the coalition's promises was that segregation would be lifted at polling stations in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. So I hold it by one solution which is part of Croatian citizens who did not humiliate Croatian nationality in polling stations and made them declare themselves nationalally at the polling post to exercise their general right to vote. This is where we predicted that, of course, a broad discussion would be held between the two readings, and also after the adoption of this law because this is the first time in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. So the proposal is in alternatives but it is essential that members of national minorities be on the general voter list, that they do not have to declare themselves at the polling post, and that when voting at the polling post, they get a ballot containing both lists, both general and special and round one of the two lists on the ballot. As we're going to do it technically, there are different possibilities. It is one thing to be a general list on the one hand, on the other hand, so that voters have the right to round one, if they round two or it will be an invalid ballot, or in the law they will write, so they are still dilemmas, or on one side there are lists, and below that there are candidates of national minorities and that they can only be voted for by one. That way, we'll avoid that statement at the polling station, of course, which is why we have to educate election committees and everything we need, but we have plenty of time to do it. And so that's one of the newspapers that we predicted in this election law. I'd like to say two more things. First, we are introducing a new institute, which is the right of insight into the Voter Registry throughout the term of office for members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In particular, any councilman in the city council will have the right to have insight into the Voter Registry throughout the term of office. The current provision was that participants of the election process have the right to obtain a voter's list, but only when they become participants in the election process, so those 15 days after the vote was called. What can then be controlled and changed, nothing or very little. Now we will have the ability to control through the entire term of office and it is an instrument that could be combined with the Law on residence, but without it, it could also solve the question of the arrival of the bus to polling stations from one part of the former state or the arrival of cars across the border also from other parts of the former state. This will be taken into account by participants in the electoral process, those who have a direct interest in regulating the electoral process, along with, of course, the state bodies who are obliged to do so, but with the help of the participants of the electoral process. Finally, given the issues, I would also like to make clear on the proposals made by civil society and the Ombudsman for people with disabilities on the issue of voting for people who are deprived of their business skills. Therefore, international and EU standards contribute to the full participation of people with disabilities, hence those with intellectual difficulties and mental disorders in the electoral process. There is a variety of approaches to European Union countries. Most of the countries deprived of their business capacity automatically deprives the right to vote, and the European Court of Human Rights stresses that such automatic deprivement constitutes a violation of the Convention on Human Rights. Other countries follow an individualised assessment of the actual voting ability of the persons concerned, and this is also the proposal that we proposed in the current law in the first reading. And the third group of countries is going towards full participation of people with disabilities in political life. In addition to the normative arrangement, it is also necessary to make adjustments that allow people with special needs to really understand the electoral process, so simple expressions, illustrations, personal assistants, training people in charge of supervision that can give appropriate clarifications, etc. At this point, our proposal is that, for each individual case, the court assesses whether, in addition to deprivement of business capacity, there should also be a deprivement of electoral rights. As far as the European Union countries are concerned, there is therefore a lot of participation in Austria, in Belgium and Bulgaria the solution as it is now in Croatia, so without the right to participate, there is a lot of participation in Cyprus, in the Czech Republic, Denmark and Estonia is a combined approach, in Finland also a combined approach, but with full participation. In Germany, Greece and Hungary, it is without participation, etc. So in the different European Union, it has been resolved in a different way. We think that it is good for Croatia to be somewhere in the middle approach, as we suggested in the first reading, with the possibility of adapting Article 64 in another way to the situation so that a certain time limit for courts to assess the voting rights of persons deprived of their business ability according to valid decisions. At this point, about 14 to 16 thousand people in Croatia are working. So here's what I wanted to say for the introduction that I see that I used all the time. Of course, we will continue to participate actively in the debate and explain because this is indeed a topic that causes great attention and political scenes and the public and everyone who is interested in the regulatory electoral process that we want to contribute to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18480	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Four replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. First is the honourable representative Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18481	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, this law is technically well done, only without that residence and residence law that we had in our first reading will we not be too much help. Some studies say, taking into account the number of underage persons, that difference from 2007 to 2011, taking into account the census and the number of voters, these are huge differences. So you yourself said about 600,000 voters, there are estimates, of 300,000 voters on this key, assessing the total number of minors, and according to this calculation of the Ministry of Administration somewhere around 600,000 voters, not considering diaspora and minorities. It's a big problem and my opinion is that without even hitting the Constitution, you mentioned article 45. The constitution, but the system of election units in the Republic of Croatia is, let's say, the city of Zagreb belongs to five electoral units, the way of the end of the electoral borders where some municipalities are registered 800 inhabitants, and 1200 voters are kept in the register, and this is where we come to these disproportionateities. So by discussing the technical and editing of the Constitution and this proposed legal text here, we can say that these intentions are good, that they will strengthen and settle that disproportionate in the list of voters, and that the great forest of riots affecting those fundamental issues, one is the technique, the other are human rights, and the third is really the third thing that stands for us, which is the limit of our electoral units which in this way if we solve these laws as we go along and otherwise we will do nothing because we will find ourselves in the same problem again, and that is that we will have a number of voters registered in relation to the number of inhabitants and then we have done nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18482	Thank you, too. Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18483	I thank my colleague Salapic. So I have to get 90% of what you said to agree because I said that about the pay phone. I'll try to explain a little bit more. Thus, the difference of 600,000 refers to the number of inhabitants and the number in the residence records. So that's where the minors are involved. With this bill, we can reduce the number of voters by about 300 thousand. Let's say that this difference in methodology is still about 200 and that 100 thousand voters really need to be placed in a place where they really should exercise their right to vote. That's why I said, so this law without the Housing Act will solve one part of the problem, and the systematic solution should therefore be combined with the Housing Act. Should I intervene in the Constitution? This is therefore also a legitimate question where, of course, only a consensus can be intervened in the Constitution, i.e. with a two-thirds majority that the ruling coalition does not have at the moment. Therefore, we are within those limits that the Constitution gives us. And secondly, as far as election units' borders are concerned, they were made in 1999, according to which four elections were held, the lefts won twice, the rights won twice. Therefore, the electoral units did not have a crucial impact on the electoral winners, but they are in one part on Parliament's composition. My view is that they should match the borders of the county, so in one constituency one or more counties. That's what we have in 5, 4 and 3 and I don't think there's anything else. We can therefore correct them and then, based on this number of residents at this time, because this allows the Venice Commission to determine the number of MPs elected from a single constituency. But that's the debate about the Electoral Law that I announced several times for the end of next, for the second half of next year. Of course we want to get a correct Electoral Law not only a correct list of voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18484	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. The following was reported by a respected representative, Željko Reiner. Here's your esteemed representative and Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18485	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, you've spent quite a bit of time at the beginning of your presentation with the articles of the Constitution and I think it's very justified and necessary, because unfortunately it seems to me and at one point you even said you didn't think it was against the constitution. I think it is, and that's what you're talking about, well, against the spirit at the very least, the spirit of the Constitution and Article 45. The Constitution. In fact, you also said that it would not make it even more difficult for some to exercise their right to vote. They will, they will, they will, because this law further potentiates the difference between Croatian citizens, i.e. voters who are in and outside Croatia. And that, of course, will be one important difficult circumstance in the exercise of their right. You also said in your statement that they would not deny voting rights to anyone. It will, and the point of course is to actually reduce the number of voters, and when it connects to the residence law where the procedure is prescribed that the police will go to determine whether someone is there, is or isn't there, etc. Of course it's going to shrink. The number of voters will be reduced, i.e. one part of Croatian citizens will be deprived of voting rights. And finally I'd like to say something in the end, you said at one point that it's important how to look at the law that you can get on one side or the other. My notion, however, is that the law should be clear enough that it cannot be seen from one side or the other, but it should be crystal clear, especially when it comes to such a very important issue as the electoral right of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18486	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18487	Thank you. So when I talked about viewing from different sides, I spoke the same way I said in discussions about changing the constitution when we looked at regulation of the electoral rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, so diaspora. In fact, one party has advocated that it remain as it has been before constitutional changes, and the other party has advocated that the electoral right of that part of the citizen be completely abolished. So, it was just a question of how we look. The current solution is for those who wanted to stay as before the reduction, and for those who wanted to regulate it differently, so look on the other side it is therefore in some way dating to the other side. So that's what I was talking about when I was talking about what side we could look at. So, with that claim, I'm staying right now. The question, if you mean the part about active registration, so that we could introduce some other institutes in the vote of Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia as well as some other democratic countries must have a regular and unquestionably polling list. Active registration is one of the instruments to get it. Unless we want to introduce these institutes, it can stay as it has been. So that's what I said and it depends on what side you're looking at. As for the combination of the Law on residence and of this law, neither the Law on residence in any combination deprives anyone of the right to vote but only determines the place in which a Croatian citizen will use it. Whether it will be in city A, in city B or outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, so at the polling post in the diaspora. But every citizen still has the right to vote. So, when I speak, I exempt the people who took away the business ability, so that part is yes. So, and this is the current solution, we propose to liberalize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18488	Thank you very much for this time. The next replica is a replica of the respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18489	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, if I'm correct in writing, you're interpreting some differences between the register or the voter list and the population list you refer to, you said it was the same methodology that applies in one case and the other. I think you've made a fundamental mistake here, but even if that wasn't wrong, if it were the same methodology for making a list of voters, of tomorrow's voters' register or censuses, what's important, and what you might forget to say to people would be clearer, the census is done once in 10 years, and that's sort of static records. The register or list of voters is changed daily, and that is why it is not so good and so often calls for these differences, because the differences arise also because of the different methodology of creating these records.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18490	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18491	Thank you. In one part, you correctly interpreted what I said. So, I said that the different methodology for making a list of voters and censuses is, that's what I said. And I said that's why there are differences in the number of voters and the number of inhabitants. What you did not exactly interpret is the fact that I said that the same methodology of making a census in one part of Croatia and the other and that the same methodology of making a list of voters in one part of Croatia and another. In one part of Croatia you have no significant differences in the number of voters and per capita, in another part of Croatia you have. And I said what are the parts, these are the parts where the majority Serb population lived before the war, and parts along the border of the Republic of Croatia, where the majority Croatian population lives on the other side of the border in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So in that part of it, I think we agree. The census can be a landmark, and these differences can be analysed. And indeed, in one part of Croatia in the north, why is this difference smaller, and in the other part of Croatia, this difference greater? And that matches the number of citizens who don't have a valid ID card. So in the same parts there were more of these citizens where there was a bigger difference, and in the second part where there was less. And I agree with something else, so you said exactly that the census is once in 10 years, and the list of voters that is permanently changing is changing anyway. But then it would be logical that after the number of inhabitants fell between 2001 and 2011, the number of voters fell, and we had the opposite case, so between 2001 and 2011, the number of voters increased, and the number of inhabitants fell. Now, if we have a 2011 census with a published population, it is not yet a structure and we had elections for Parliament in 2011, a referendum for the European Union on 1 month 2012, that is enough of the French data to be compared accordingly. Of course, 2016 will no longer be so fresh that, of course, that difference would be more justified by the next list of 2021. So, in that part, I agree most of what you said. Here, I hope I've explained what we haven't quite interpreted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18492	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18493	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, perhaps today the main topic and the process of all the media will be a Balkan spy, or who watched whom, recorded, listened, but here you said you advocated the regularity of the election process? I agree that order should be put in the list of voters and indeed there was everything and everything, both in the east and in the south. However, if we look at the overall regularity of the electoral process, then the process is certainly a series of other laws that are tied to this one. Well, one of those laws is also this new proposal, which is related to the direct selection of local self-government leaders, the authority of these city councils and mayors, and in that proposal it was created, and fortunately I think it goes into another reading, is created one I would say Frankenstein's creation. And if we are in favour of the regularity of the electoral process, then it should be excluded that directly elected local self-government leader can be replaced by those who are not directly elected, or city councilors. You are, first of all, closely tied to this list of voters, such a model you have narrowly, so you force those future leaders of local self-government, I will certainly be one of them, I don't know if it will be these mayors of the SDP, but you have forced, regardless of the political party, to a ruthless political trade. And you will be the only one responsible because every single unit of local self-government, if it does not come along with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, does not come from this political trade, all units of local self-government will have one election each year, and perhaps two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18494	Thank you very much. I'll give a reply to the replica, but I'll warn you sooner. This was a debate where it itches, and it is not on the agenda, the list of voters, or the register of voters, is on the agenda, not the local election of colleagues. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18495	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I don't think it's luck to go in two readings, but it's a normal procedure. So, most of the laws of this nature and what you have said will go into two readings, because it is of course respect for the Croatian Parliament, respect for the opinions that you will be silent and, of course, an analysis of what you have heard that the final bill is doing good things, and what needs to be fixed in the first reading we will fix. So, as far as the solutions of the Law on Local Self-Government are concerned, they're good because they're creating a balance between councils and commissioners, which has not been the case so far. I would remind you that in the last term you were the mayor who was replaced by the city council and elected by another, you were not directly elected, but chosen by another. After that, you went to the elections, you won, after that you changed the party, somehow you got most of them, some of them formed or deformed, I don't know what the current situation is, and the fact is that you're going to go to the polls like the City Council is going to go to the polls. Therefore, according to the Constitution, local self-government is achieved through directly elected members of representative bodies. The direct election of mayors resulted in frequent changes of mayors to representative bodies. And now we've got each other's extremes that they were de facto irreplaceable. And now we're trying to strike a balance, a debate in two readings in the Parliament and on committees and in the professional public will show if we've succeeded. So we have attacks on the one hand that we've made the mayors even stronger and the attacks on the other hand that we've exposed them to the councils that haven't been directly elected. It just shows that we're on some middle road and we're sailing that way for now. And of course two readings, so we'll see what happens...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18496	So I didn't take away a word from a respected representative when he transferred the topic to something that wasn't on the agenda, I didn't take away a word from the minister, but colleagues and colleagues did not take it correctly to the other MPs. We're not all in the Law on Local Elections right now. We're all in the Law on Election Registration. Please, let's just stick to each other properly. And now do the workers want to take a word? These are the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Human Rights? No, yeah. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18497	Thank you, Mr. President. It's all about the regularity of the election process. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament held on 10th session of 10th October 2012 discussed this proposal of the Law on the Registration of Voters, and the Committee on Local Self-Government discussed this proposal as an interested working body. And after the opening presentation of the representatives in the committee's debate, the question is, among other things, whether this law will in reality resolve the issue of the actual state of the number of voters, and it is also pointed out that the polling committees in local self-government units are being abolished, which prevents their participation in the conduct of the voter list. After the debate was held, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion, that the proposal of the Law on the register of voters should be adopted, and any objections, proposals, opinions presented in the debate would be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18498	Thank you, Your Honor. Before we move to a debate about the proposed club law, first of all, the notice. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities called for today on Tuesday 23rd October 2012 at 13.30 p.m. the chairman of the Committee Furio Radin. And another proposal from a respected colleague and respected fellow MPs to work without a break today. I'm looking for an understanding of that. Okay? Thank you very much. And now we're going to open up the debate and we're going to have a debate on the proposed law by committee clubs. The first is the SDP club and respected representative Tonka Ivčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18499	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to point out that the SDP club believes that the bill on the register of voters is a step forward in regulating the electoral system and addressing the problems that arise during the elections and will support this bill. In 2005, GONG conducted a survey on the accuracy of data contained in voters' lists and compared them with the last census of the population made in 2001 by the State Statistics Office and came to the results that there are more than 400 thousand persons in the list of voters in the Republic of Croatia. This condition is directly related to the residence records. In addition, an additional problem is a list of voters who have the right to choose in the Republic of Croatia but who live in BiH. GONG found out during the last presidential elections that because of the poor update of the census, many people were able to exercise voting rights twice for the same elections and encountered situations in which the deceased persons were circled in the voter list's statements as if they had voted. During the 2009 local elections, the issue of registered voter residences that do not practically reside in the Republic of Croatia has been updated, and since their number in some environments has a significant impact on the number of voters who have left and thus on the results of the elections. I will support all the above-mentioned statistics and compare the number of voters in the local elections in 2009 against the number of residents published as the first general data of the State Statistics Institute. All of this will be backed up by a part of the statement cited by the minister in his debate. For example, in the city of Vukovar, the number of voters in the local elections in 2009 exceeds 5085 voters according to the first general data from 2001 on DZS data. In the town of Knin, the number is higher by 5312, in Obrovec 2682, in Benkovec 5132, in Drnis 1374, Karlovac 237, Gospić 1776, small municipalities Okucani 1289. As if we had other examples where we have a really larger population than the number of voters in the local elections, so I'm going to give examples. For example, in the town of Čakovec, we have 4371 inhabitants, more than the number of voters. In Vinkovci 3684, in Zadar 5049, in Sibenik 1623, in the City of Zagreb 71353. The first general data from the State Statistics Office on the number of inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia from 2011 speak about the number of 4 290 612 inhabitants. The 2011 DIP result is defined by 3 882 549 voters in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the assessment of the number of minors in the Republic of Croatia's statistical yearbooks 2009 of 716 831 minors we can talk about 198 279 voters more than residents with voting law. The difference between the 20011 voter's completed list and the real number of voters in 2011 is 307 768 or 7.93%. The largest deviation within the SZ of Croatia has Zagreb County with 317 642 inhabitants and 51 726 minors, and voters according to the 2011 parliamentary elections record have 270 943. An estimate of the actual number of voters and within the figure of 265 916 is therefore a difference in 15 000 people and 5.35%, respectively. The largest irregularity in terms of excess voters over the population is recorded by the Sibenik-Knin County of 27.45% and Zadar 18.41%. Minimum deviation in Vukovar-Srijem County of 0.52% and Osijek-Baranja 0.65%. I will also give some additional examples for smaller municipalities, let's say that according to the 2011 census, the municipality of Skradin records 3807 inhabitants, and given the number of voters in the parliamentary elections and the same year records a derogation of 1733 voters more than the population in the area. The municipality of Žumberak also identified an irregularity since 1095 voters and 872 residents were recorded. The area of Crikvenica, which according to the 2011 list has 11 193 residents in the parliamentary elections held that same year, recorded 1019 voters over that number, while for Pakrac this irregularity involves as many as 2605 voters more than those in the same area in the same year. The city of Prelog records an surplus of as many as 4754 voters in the 2011 parliamentary elections, given the number of residents that same year. According to the list of voters for the state referendum, 22.1.2012 in the following counties, the number of voters exceeds the number of residents. It's about six counties. In Sisak-Moslavina it is cca 5000 voters more than the population, in Karlovac 4572, in Ličko-Senjska 6008, in Požega-Slavonska 303, Zadar 12 279 and in Sibenik-Kninska as many as 13 581 voters are more than the number of inhabitants. In the same counties, the number of voters in the 2011 parliamentary elections also exceeds the number of residents listed in the same year. We believe that all of this is sufficient reason to support the proposal for a Law on the Registration of Voters. The establishment of a register of voters as an electronic database of personal data on the voting rights of all voters who do so in the Republic of Croatia would, above all, be given the accuracy and update of the list of voters that would correspond to the true state and thus increase transparency regarding the conduct of the elections, but also the election results themselves. The list of voters is only part of the register of voters set up after its closure and concludes no later than 8 days before the day specified for holding the election, or referendum. Therefore, with the Voter Registry and beyond, there will be a list of voters but a prerequisite for enrolment in that signature will be a valid ID card, and not as could be accessed by the elections so far with another document, such as a passport that does not have to be direct proof of permanent residence. The information on the addresses in the register of voters is therefore based on the register of spatial units and is based on the records of the permanent residence of the MUP so that the data in both records will be harmonised and will no longer be possible for 40 to 50 voters to be entered in the same address if it is not a multi-story. The register, which would be kept over three records as already said, would allow a clearer distinction for Croatian citizens with a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia and citizens of the Member States of the European Union, and given the easier possibility of updating, would increase the actuality of the data as well as their availability. At any moment, it will be possible to know the exact number of voters that should avoid situations such as in the last few elections in the Republic of Croatia took place in 6 counties where the number of voters eventually exceeded the population, even without taking into account the number of minors. Avoiding such situations certainly goes in favour of the regularity of the election. In favour of achieving the same goals, the possibility of eradicating voters from voters who were included among voters with a permanent residence has moved abroad, with voters without a permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia having to register actively before each election in order to get into the list of voters would have avoided disputed situations such as voting... they have already passed away, which we know was a very common case before, especially when it comes to the 11th constituency. Active registration will be conducted for each election and only active registered voters will enter the list of voters. They will be conducted abroad by diplomatic consular representations of the Republic of Croatia, and in Croatia the competent office according to the place where voters will meet on election day, or referendum. This means that we will no longer have 450 thousand voters in the diaspora, but that number that is registered before each election. In addition to the active registration, institutions of previous registration and temporary registration shall be prescribed. The previous registration is provided for Croatian citizens with permanent residence in Croatia who will find themselves abroad on the day of the election or the state referendum, and for those who wish to vote in Croatia outside their permanent place. An application for temporary registration, unlike a valid legal solution, shall be submitted in any office independently of the place of entry in the register of voters. As regards the list of voters held on the basis of national membership, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be on the general census according to the place of residence, and members of national minorities will be on the additional census. The right to vote would also be granted to business incompetent persons if the court's ruling had not taken them away. It leaves the possibility of voting in welfare institutions, the deadlines for the census to be extended to 10 days before the vote is held, the voter list will no longer be confirmed by the Commission for the List of Local Self-Government Units, but will be done by the state administration in whose jurisdiction it is, and a single programme solution for data processing will be introduced so that at any moment the exact number of voters will be known. I must point out here that we accept that, until the second reading, another review of Platform 112's initiative for Croatia's rule of law and attorney for persons with disabilities, and regarding persons deprived of their business skills, which have been deleted from the list of voters. We also assess the law with a positive view to bringing it into line with the EU, since this also solves the possibility for citizens of other EU member states to go to the elections in Croatia when representatives for the European Parliament are elected after Croatia's entry into the EU. Finally, we at the SDP club hold that this proposal of the Law on the Registration of Voters removes any doubt about the regularity of the elections in Croatia and thus confirms the functioning democracy in the Republic of Croatia as a future EU member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18500	Thank you, too, Your Honor. A replica of respected representatives Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić has been reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18501	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You did not mention your colleagues Ivancic when you spoke about the disproportionate number of citizens and the number of voters among the examples, but I think you should mention the valley of Neretva, or Makarska hinterland. You remember the example of the town of Vrgorac, which has 6 thousand 501 inhabitants, and 7 thousand 118 voters were reported. We see such misunderstandings in other cities, or other parts of the Neretva Valley, or the Makarska coast. Although there were warnings, however, it was often relativized, ignoring because of course it was someone, it went to someone’s advantage. And that's why I think this law will also introduce order and that it will finally go in the right direction of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18502	Thank you very much. We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18503	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the situation that we are again in the situation that, seven months before the elections are held, not only locally but also for representatives from the Republic of Croatia in the European Parliament, we are discussing a set of new legislative solutions that may significantly affect the preparation of participants in the elections. This also happens to us from cycle to cycle that we do not understand in time the order of importance, the importance of individual bill proposals, and especially in this proposal there has been a discrepancy within governmental resolutions. Because I'll remind you that in our first reading, we had a conversation, a debate on the law on permanent residence, which is one of the first laws that regulates the electoral process in every democratic state. Since lists of voters or registers of voters in Croatia are based on the residence and... on the basic record of course that this law should have been discussed and read together with that. Because this law offers some solutions that presuppose that the law on permanent residence has already been adopted and is not. There are, of course, laws governing the area of elections or election units, so the Electoral Law, the Law on Political Activity and Election Promotion and the Law on the State Election Commission. I repeat, the Law on the State Election Commission because the power and competence of the DIP is not only to implement, monitor and report on the conduct of the elections but also has the power to give opinions and suggestions and proposals to improve the electoral process. When I asked the Committee on the Constitution whether there was an opinion of the DIP on this bill, I received the answer that the representatives of the DIP participated in writing the document. Later on, we received a written document from the DIP and their proposal to make serious remarks on the draft law that entered into the parliamentary procedure. Why did the legislator with the DIP fail to resolve the dilemmas and different views of the DIP before sending the bill to the parliamentary procedure? Should we in the Assembly be an arbitration between two basic approaches and the seriousness of warning about some solutions that the DIP even claims are anti-constitutional. I warn and repeat ministers, the DIP has legal powers to give the Parliament proposals to improve the electoral process. If you had agreed to this earlier, we shouldn't be studying the opinion of the DIP here today. How important and the whole of the regulation on this is also the fact that Croatia has not started to prepare seriously for the elections of representatives from the Republic of Croatia for the European Parliament, as the existing legislative solution will obviously have to be changed. And if I am a good guess, these elections will be held in parallel with local elections, whether in the first or second round, it doesn't matter. And I'm afraid it'll only come to the agenda in January or February. The election participants have the right, regardless of whether it is candidates running for citizens and political parties, to be introduced in time and to have a firm, settled, adopted legislative regulation that also affects their preparations, participation in the pre-election campaign and in the elections themselves. This kind of procedure, that we have today in our first reading of the Law on Election Register, and only afterwards, the new Law on Elections for Local Self-Government, and not in the Package, is that we send one message that we are inserious and that, within the coordination in the Government of Resors, the parent resolutions for different legislative proposals did not harmonize either the content, or the timing of these proposals, and in my court, they had to, they had to. And this bill comes from the fact that, based on the existing database, the state administration will be able to make a good register of voters. I have seen several statements by the minister that already in the process of controlling the implementation of the existing legislation, somewhere around 300 thousand voters are or will be deleted from the list, it is only a statement, officially no such data. And I've been claiming for years that I'm putting this on my own and now, that I'm based on existing data and so many different records, and in particular by warning that the same law applies throughout Croatia, and the minister himself said that from part to part of Croatia is such a different situation. He's telling us about the fact that somewhere out there, he's obviously taking care of state administrations, police, and other bodies from whose database the data for the assembly is now being drawn up by voters, they're not doing their job well. And that's why I thought the only way we could finally get to the right true list of voters was to register voters. Any citizen with voting rights must register as a voter, under (a) those who have residence and live in the Republic of Croatia, under (b) those who live abroad and have residence in the Republic of Croatia and those citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. Only by such an active registration of all voters, which must be conducted for at least 6 months, I am convinced that they will come up with a clean list. Several attempts to fix the list of voters always ended in failure. And now I'm skeptical, especially because in the law, in the accompanying explanation, it says that the implementation of this law will not require additional funding, either in this year or next. I simply cannot believe that such a demanding process as is prescribed by this bill will not require any new costs in either the home offices or the police, or in the offices of the state administration, claiming that we can actually take care of it in time before the local elections. I think the opposite is that we must provide the necessary financial resources if we truly have a desire to implement and make a single register of voters in which no one will ever have the grounds to question his accuracy again, in his data, and that is what I am convinced of the goal of all of us never having to deal with doubt in Croatia again about the correctness of the list of voters. We have also received the opinion of the Advocate General for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities and several NGOs that the offered solutions about citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been deprived of their business capacity in full or in part have not been well resolved in their court. I want to believe that the second reading and the part, as well as these remarks by the State Election Commission, will try to agree before it comes to another reading with the bill. However, what has made me particularly confused is the provision, if I am not mistaken, that is, in Article 26, which provides: "The members of the local and regional self-government representative bodies have the right to see the register or the list of voters." What should this provision do in law? So municipal, city councilors and county councilors would have the right to see the data, the parliamentary representatives would not. I think that here, Mr. Minister, we should return to the decision that the right to obtain a copy of the register or a list of voters for the area where the election is active, all participants of the election are therefore independent candidates of the independent list and political parties who have highlighted the candidate for the municipality of the city, county or constituency. It is the only meaningful solution whether the participants of the election will use this right and raise documents that are not in paper but in electronic form, is their business. But such a solution would contribute to the right of all participants of the election to do so, to make an insight, and then a large number of reasons for possible objections disappear, doubts after the election process has been carried out. With such a solution, everyone would be more satisfied, safer because we give advance choice participants the opportunity to verify the authenticity of the list of voters and... And in the end, I end up with a proposal, although not all the draft laws on your minister's portfolio are. Please make every effort to make the laws relating to local elections of residence, register of voters, local self-government elections and the Law on Local Self-Government, as well as to amend the Law for selecting representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the EU parliament in front of the Parliament in the second reading package, to have a whole of the legislative rules because one depends on the other. Some solutions in one law dictate the implementation of another law. Now the laws are written on the basis of a bill that some have been in the first reading, some have not yet been included in the agenda and this additional confusion brings into debate, in misunderstanding of certain provisions, and there is enough time I hope and will to complete this process in the Assembly by the end of this calendar year. I think it's our responsibility, Minister. We also owe it to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to know by which rules the mayors, mayors, mayors, representative bodies and representatives from the Republic of Croatia in the EU parliament will be elected, as we will have a list of voters and how we will regulate and, in a very short time, implement the new law on permanent residence. You probably agree with me that the implementation of this law is the most crucial for the implementation of this law, that time is extremely small and that a large number of people in the state administration will have to work actively to get voters' lists settled in time for the conditions for calling local elections to be obtained. I know you're not the Prime Minister, that you can't influence the others, but please refer this appeal to the other government colleagues who are in charge of adopting all necessary laws by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18504	Thank you very much. For a debate on behalf of the Government, Minister Arsen Bauk, on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18505	Thank you, Mr. President. So these remarks by my colleague, Lesar, in this timing of law, I understand very well-intentioned so it is logical to follow the Law on residence, the Law on the List of voters, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Local Elections, therefore all laws are in the procedure. The Law on Local Self-Government has been directed, and today we have been invited to the Committee on Human Rights. In my first reading, I think it's good to give more time to discuss all the laws. So when the Law on residence is, we can focus on the residence, when the Law on Election Register is on the register of voters and then on local self-government, so this is the first reading according to the Rules of Procedure to be held. So I take that remark well-intentioned, but I don't think it's crucial at this point, so for first reading. We could've been together in the Parliament for a long time, so we can. Second, this law and the solution to this law follow what was in the first reading of the Law of residence. If we perform one kind of monitoring over the process of adopting the Law of residence and of course react to any possible changes that will be made to this law and we work together. So now it's the Election Register Act. As regards the participation of the State Election Commission in the draft legislation, therefore, there were two representatives of the DIP, following this opinion you mentioned, another working group meeting was held and then some positions were agreed, and some of them were not able to agree. Of some remarks, colleagues gave up, what is in the draft law is the government's proposal. Now you can say that we have to agree in everything that with DIP, I don't think we have to. So some things we don't have to have a common opinion about. We also received some proposals from the DIP at the Local Elections Act, all the clubs received. In that opinion, it says that some proposals were accepted without some being able to agree. And we couldn't agree, but we believe that it is the right of the Croatian Parliament to make a final decision. So we don't have to agree on everything but, of course, it's good to talk. In each working group are these essential laws are included from all sides of the spectrum. So in the Law on the Right of Access to Information, we had members from GONG and the Office of the National Security Council and all discussions were conducted on the working group. Also in the proposal for a Law on Election Register, the representatives of GONG, the representatives of the DIP, the Office of State Administration and the discussions are also being held on the working group. And that's why when I come to the Croatian Parliament, then we have different arguments to answer. As far as the decision is concerned, but of course I accept, and when making the final draft of the law, the same working group will be with colleagues from the DIP in the materials that went to the Croatian Government's meeting, there are indications of all the proposals of the DIP with reasons and all other reasons, and the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, the objections of the ministries, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, so all those who have to be manifested about the process of adopting the proposal, their proposals were made manifest. Therefore, we will show ourselves once again, we may be able to convince them of some things but we do not have to have the same opinion, but the Croatian Parliament is the one who makes the final decision. At least that's what I think, from some political experience and the experience of the MPs and the experience of the minister. When will elections be held for the European Parliament at this time not be able to answer you, so it is within the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It would be good if there were a consensus on political parties and that the elections for the European Parliament, these premature ones, which we have to go to the date around which there will be no political opposition. Whether they'll be together with the local elections, whether they'll be together with the first or second round, that's the decision. What a decision we'll make. As for the number of voters to be smaller in the voters list, the exact number is 339 650. There are so many citizens of the Republic of Croatia with residence in the Republic of Croatia who on September 15th when we asked for information to see if this criterion is good, which do not have a valid ID card. Different categories of citizens, some have never had it in the last 20 years, remain in the residence records. That's what you said about the records, that's right. Some have expired, some have changed the data, and it is not valid for that reason, and that is the first part of the citizens whose voting rights we will have to verify in some ways or we will have to go through another sieve that will not be very wide or narrow. So I think it's regular to see if they have the right to vote by checking their personal data and personal documents. It's not a repeat question of identification in the polling spot itself. This can also happen with a passport, it can be with a ID card, and the Constitutional Court has ruled in several judgments that another document that has a picture can be used to determine that it is a person. But the right to participate in the elections is therefore prescribed with this instrument and that is, 339 150, and it is, as I said in many ways, consistent with those areas of the Republic of Croatia where this difference between the number of voters and residents is greater. We also have other data, on the structure of the data and on the nationality and data of the residence, etc. So that's what the Home Office is responsible for, but it's doubtless that we can get to that data because it's connected. As for the additional funding, so we now have certain costs for voters' lists and we don't plan to increase them, first because we don't have the budget and second because technically it's not too demanding because we're recording, I'm going to explain, now I'm entering the professional section. We transfer the residence records to the list of voters and match it with the records of valid ID cards based on the OIB. So this is a piece of information made by machine and obtained information that we have in the Republic of Croatia 3 million 700 and some thousands of citizens with a valid ID card and 339 650 who do not have a valid ID card that will be in the register, not in the list and on the day of the election if they do not make the documents will come for confirmation and will be included in the list of voters based on the conditions prescribed by the Constitution. This means that, say of these 339 000, not all 339 000 will come for confirmation, maybe they come in about 20, 30, or maybe when they see that it is for them to exercise their right to vote, they might start to regulate their documents because they are legally required to have it. I even think it's $1,500, I hope it's not going to be a cop waiting outside the Department of State to even charge a fine because there's no valid ID, it's not an intention, although I believe the Minister of Finance wouldn't mind, but in that way we're going to get 3 million 750 plus those who still get the confirmation. That way, we'll get out of the election as a percentage of what we do and it'll be real. Your idea of actively registering everyone, I personally like it. Is if this doesn't prove effective then it's the ultimate measure we're going to have to take. I hope we won't have to, I hope this government will show efficiency in taking care of its records, multiple ministries and you said yourself, so it remains to be seen how successful we will be. As far as parliamentary deputies are concerned, they will be in the final draft of the law. They will have the right to gain insight into the list of voters for the entire Republic of Croatia, so we will add that. We, if you've seen the law on local self-government in councilmen's rights, have put them right to see the voters' list. Now what's the difference between this solution that we're proposing and this one right now. The participants of the election match could see it only in the 15 days until the election, and if they got a list of voters they could not react to the accuracy because they are in the election campaign, the elections are over and by the next election they no longer have the right to even use that data. So it can remain that solution, it's been so far but it hasn't yielded results in that sense. But it can remain a solution. So what we want, that the participants of the election game, so the council members throughout the term of office have an insight into the list of voters because then he had more time to control. So this should not be seen as a reduction of rights but as an increase but we will also consider that this institute that has been left so far to remove all doubts about transparency. So the question, of course, is the limitations of the data available, but it is dealt with by other laws, so I believe that I have managed to explain most of your objections or well-intentioned criticisms, and I believe that you will be pleased with what we propose in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18506	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Whether he's satisfied or not, he's entitled to replication. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18507	Very short. You told the ministers that you wanted to believe that the DIP would convince you that you were right about some controversial solutions. I want to express hope that they will convince you of some changes and you will accept part of their remarks. Secondly, the European Parliament elections. I didn't ask when it would be, I expressed hope. I know you can't know that. And now I repeat, I hope that there will be an agreement that they will be held on the day and the conduct of local elections for and not only savings but the greater the citizens' vote. I am sorry that this issue is not an attempt to agree on the clubs of MPs initiated either in Parliament, but not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reach agreement on that day. And I like your suggestion that this institute sees the register of voters other than local councilors and parliamentarians leave that election participants' solution so that we both have one and the other because then we're removing a series of possible objections. My suggestion is both.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18508	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18509	When you express your confidence in accepting some proposals, I absolutely want to convince you that even so far the practice has been acceptance, so in this text that I will submit to you after the 36 observations of various institutions have been accepted, and one part has not been accepted. When this proposal is reduced by these 36, we will come to another part of the remarks that we will accept or not accept, but behind every solution that comes to the Parliament must be the Government and especially the Minister and explain why he did not accept something. And it is very clear to me that the reasons for not accepting the DIP proposal will be viewed with a special increase and their comments will be considered in particular, but does not mean that they are always and in everything right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18510	Thank you very much, Minister. We're going to discuss clubs further. IDS Club and Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18511	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. Of course this law should be supported. Why? The minister had previously said to clean up this mess, but also to remove another illogicality that really makes up one state of paradox from Croatia. We're probably one of, and perhaps the only state, or one of the few states, probably some Balkan example is similar to us, so we're one of the few states in the world that has more voters than there are residents. And now you're a normal man asking a question, is that possible? Of course, it's possible in these areas. Is that normal? It's not normal, but here we see it possible. Is that natural? It's not natural, but it's logical. And why is it logical? Because this has always been the case with one political option from this spectrum of political parties acting on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. So, on the one hand, as we now have this discussion, we have as many acceptable laws as possible. For example, for the election of MPs, although I would personally prefer to choose MPs directly as we elect the mayors, as we elect mayors, as we elect mayors, as we elect the mayors, as we elect the president of the Republic of Croatia. But to this day we still don't know how many "we have voters" and we don't even know how many "inhabitants"? Which we are now the country of the paradox testifying and another piece of information. That it's been almost two years since the voters' list. What do we know? We only know how many Republics have their own inhabitants and what we are according to religion. Those two data seem to me, we didn't get this other one? But that's why Kaptol immediately tried to keep us informed, and I'm sure they didn't make the wrong string as many of us as there are in history. We don't know anything else. We don't know the national picture of Croatia, we don't know in Istria the regional as many as there are pastures, we don't know how many houses, apartments, and in those lists they even asked us if we own toilets, water heaters, how many we don't know ducks, chickens, etc., etc. And now I'd really like to ask or ask when that list of voters will see the light of day? That list I don't know now how much it cost, but it seems to me that... The resident, yes, not the voter. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And how much did that cost? And it cost a brother about 100 million or 150 million kuna. Now let's let it go. What is certainly most important is that when we talk about this proposal of the Election Register Act, that no one is in one privileged position because of this disorder that exists in the Republic of Croatia. But something else is important, at least in my court, why do we need one of the other things when this register of voters doesn't go differently? That individuals would have no other advantages than two or more basics. For example, in order not to use two or more places of social compensation, maternity benefits that are regular practice in the Republic of Croatia, children's allowances, other social rights, I don't know maybe military, civilian disability even though it's another story. So, this law is clear to tang voter rights, but maybe the one I'm talking about here. First of all, when I talk about these voting rights, it is about whether we have decided to stop falsifying the electoral will of the people of the Republic of Croatia, and this second is about these abuses of these social and material rights. On page 1 of this proposal of the Law on the Registration of Voters, I quote here, it is declared: "The proposal for a law requires that the authorities of the State Administration, County, or the City of Zagreb be responsible for the affairs of the General Administration, be guided by part of the register of voters for the area for which they are established. The register of voters who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia is conducted by the General Administration Office in the City of Zagreb, and the register of voters is conducted on official duty for each city or municipality and is based on the principle of continuity. Now, here, among other things we're talking about this duality, I'm going to call it our county, on the one hand they're the bodies of local self-government, and on the other hand we see these state administrations, now it's separate is no longer what it was until 2000 and some years ago. But we can, so as soon as someone mentions those county offices, then someone thinks that our mayors or mayor of Zagreb have jurisdiction, and we know that's not the case. I, and the mayor of Zagreb has, so there is also a small advantage over the mayors, but take good care of it. But if it were entrusted, I have, I don't know, I mean that register of voters to local self-government, meaning that self-rule of our counties, or our cities or municipalities, I'm convinced, normally provided they're sent down certain funds, that it would have been settled long ago. Like this, what's happening to us? The state monitors the offices, and it's known to whom it didn't answer that question, through these state bodies, and solve it. I have always claimed that the hair in the county does not have those who have electoral legitimacy as brave as it sounds, but those who achieve electoral success at the state level. So, you or the state is setting up the chief and the police, and the audits, and I don't know these inspectors, the head of finance, I don't know the people's defense, etc. At times, it was all done by congregations, municipalities, okay to be more honest, more precise committees, parties, but it was done in the then congregations of municipalities, not the ministries. Well, today we see that in the last month or a half of the day in Istria, we're being replaced by the head of finance, catastra, police, I don't know if this DORH guy left alone or has been resolved and normally many ministers are asking and what's going to happen to the head of state administration. Even though you once told me that we didn't engage as much around anyone as this individual who might not be far from the truth. No, you know the problem with these people leaving, but the problem is that nobody talks to local self-government, that's the problem. Article 9 here refers to the entry in the register of voters, Article 14 of the submission of data to the competent authorities, it is interesting to note Article 15 of the supplementation of nationality. But now what do we have in this law? We also have this whole chapter: "Member States of the European Union who exercise voting law in the Republic of Croatia", and among other things, it is nice to say: "European Union citizens who exercise voting law in the Republic of Croatia are registered in the register of brothers according to the place of permanent or temporary residence in the Republic of Croatia within the time limit and subject to the conditions laid down by special laws.". It is clear to me that we have spoken all of this in our pre-accession negotiations and that we must now translate it into this law, and it is said: "European Union citizens who wish to vote in the elections for representative bodies of units of local (regional) self-government and local referendums are enrolled in voter records towards the place of permanent or temporary residence in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of their request.". So it's about the records, so these voters, etc. etc. So, for MPs, someone who has that residence in the Republic of Croatia will not be able to vote, they will not be able to vote for the president, but will vote in local state referendums and will vote normally for the bodies of local authorities, councils, municipalities, cities, county assembly, mayors, mayors or mayors and will vote for representatives who will be prominent candidates for the European Parliament. It might be fairer, or vote for everyone or anyone, but let's let that logic go now. The article, though logic would be, as well as for the diaspora where you pay your taxes there, but let's just say it's overcome. This Regulation shall enter "Active registration of voters who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia." It tangs a large number, I'll tell the Croatian diaspora. However, for the end of any order should be, will should or should be deleted, everything clearly in this country comes from the will of the voters, from the moment of the election, and therefore this will, as I said, must not be falsified in any way. We need what is our obligation in a single word of fair elections. And fair elections will take place in the country if we know at least how many residents we have, how many voters we have, who can, who can't vote and that no one is given "right" to round up their candidates in the diaspora, and other times in the City of Zagreb or in Metkovic, Buzet or Pula, anyway. Some have also mentioned some details about the insight into the file, and that is certainly fine, although they may think that those who have money will fill our citizens with letters, but I personally consider it regardless of what it costs not to combine the elections well. If it were good to join the elections, then perhaps elsewhere in the country the same day would be elected by their mayors, mayors, mayors, MPs, presidents of the state, European parliamentarians, etc. I think one such detail will largely lead to coalition more and I won't say abuse of voter will by any chance but by their autonomous accession to these election boxes. All in all, I think it's absolutely time to settle this mess with the voters' list, and that this law on voter registration should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18512	Thank you. The replica of your presentation has a colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18513	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Cain, and I would also like the minister to hear this replica of mine. I think it is one of the main challenges not to say the problems Croatia faces and will unfortunately face more and more demographic nature. The demographic challenge has direct implications for the RS economy on the one hand, and on the other hand, Croatia has one of the largest diaspora of all EU countries. Now I ask you, and as vice-president of the government, I had the opportunity to communicate fairly with our Croatian diaspora last year, I assure you that no one from the Croatian diaspora is returning to Croatia with a bread belly, but they come with their money, they want to invest here, they want his children, his uncles, whoever lives in Croatia. Now I ask you especially Mr. Minister, will every responsible government do everything possible to motivate this Croatian diaspora around the world to be as close to the Croatian state as possible and by voting or by demoting it and pushing it away from the Croatian state. I think the crisis is so serious that it is finally time to move away from the narrow party political interests and start doing what is good for the Croatian state and all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18514	Thank you. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18515	You are, and you're wrong, Mr. Representative. I agree that the Croatian diaspora is one of the largest diaspora in the world. I am absolutely sure that the borders of this country are opening up to the Croatian diaspora, but when we talk about the Croatian diaspora, we have a Croatian diaspora in Germany, the United States, South Africa or America, but we have a "Croatian" diaspora in BiH. I agree together we defended ourselves there from '91 to 095 together, worked together, created, that "there is no" these diaspora Croatia would be in much more difficult democratic problems compared to these. I don't want to make any distinction, but speaking of the electoral will, I don't think it can be falsified in any way and that the citizens of BiH of Croatian nationality, the origins are not important to have more rights than I or anyone else in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18516	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary, Minister of Management Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18517	So on the direct question regarding the census of the population based on the law and part-round of state institutions for the implementation of the census, the DZS is competent as a state administrative organisation, therefore the right address for the inquiry is the DZS, of course the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What I have in mind is that the list of censuses concerning the national composition of the religion population and the like will be completed in December 2012 which is kind of good. Why is it good? Because we are discussing laws that define the participation of members of national minorities and members of the Croatian people where representatives of national minorities make up the majority of the population. So we define legal solutions without yet knowing the exact numbers, so it's easier for us to talk in principle and less that we only have some city, municipality or county in front of our eyes, and that's already defined by the Constitutional Law, so it's easier for us to discuss it, so when the lists come, we'll know exactly how much, where and what, that's the first thing. As far as EU citizens' rights are concerned, they are defined the Law on the Rights of Citizens of Other EU Member States in the elections for representative bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government. It is therefore argued in Article 2 that citizens of other EU members who have residence or temporary stay in the unit in which elections are held have the right to elect members of the representative body and the unit and to run for a member of the representative body of that unit. So not for the captain, not for the mayor, but for the councilman they have the right under the law of the National Journal 92/10. But in Article 146. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees this right and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are therefore citizens of the EU and are guaranteed an active and passive voting right to vote for the EU Parliament and local elections in another Member State in accordance with the rules of the country. So that's something that applies to EU citizens. For us, it is true for Croatian citizens in EU countries when and hopefully on the 1st of July 2013, we will enter. And now I don't think I'm getting out of my rules of procedure if I respond to the replica of Representative Milosevic because he asked me. So I absolutely support what you said. The proposal for a solution in this law goes towards facilitating and increasing the participation of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have a residence in the Croatian Parliament elections. Why? Because by constitutional provisions we have defined the number of three MPs who no longer depend on the number of citizens who went to the elections and in constitutional solutions and with certain repairs we can introduce institutes that facilitate the vote of members of the Croatian diaspora in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. And this provision on active registration should be understood in this sense that we want to introduce some other institutes that are not currently in the Croatian Constitution, and unless we can reach a consensus on this, we will remain as we have so far. And another thing, there are no citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are on two polling lists. So there isn't any now. So if someone who lives somewhere outside Croatia has a Croatian ID card, he's not on the diaspora list. He's on the list of other states but it has nothing to do with our voter lists. If those citizens were found not to meet the legal conditions for residence, they would be transferred from the list in the Republic of Croatia to the diaspora list but would remain a voting law. Of course, there is the whole story of voting in local elections because local elections do not have all citizens voting rights but only those prescribed by law, not the Constitution, as the law prescribes to have a residence in the Republic of Croatia in those municipalities and cities where their residence is. Now, of course, we can ask whether, in local elections, citizens who have a place of residence in one place, and the temporary residence elsewhere can vote in those cities where they have a temporary residence. It's the same legitimate question, and I believe it's not against the constitution, because the Constitution didn't prescribe it, it's prescribed by law. The only thing that matters is that no one votes in two places. So there are a lot of open questions that we want to settle by closing this issue for a long time, and of course if it turns out that something needs to be fixed, we will fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18518	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired just now at 11.55 p.m. for the application of the 10-minute hearing. And it's the SDSS Club and colleague of Mile Horvat. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18519	Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let me just say first of all, so we don't have any dilemmas, no reserves according to the fact that we need to put order into the voter lists. It should be introduced for reasons to avoid the disproportionately laminate between the number of inhabitants and the number of voters. At the very least, in a political sense, I think that with a single organised electoral census, it would gain greater credibility, the overall credibility of the election. So we at the SDSS club don't have any reservations. We think that to praise the minister's activity, that is, the activity of his team as a promoter and try to find all models or at least the most optimistic ones to cover all categories of Croatian citizens with this list. But here we have a few principle questions when all of this is being analyzed. So we've been offered a legal model with four types of enrollment as I understand it. The first is the general enrolment, a regular enrolment carried out on the basis of existing records of various competent services and authorities, the basis of residence. And then we have one new premise in the whole list business, and that's a premise called permanent stay. So that permanent residence we installed here as the key to things, and if it hadn't been regulated by law in all those elements that would have completely and clearly stated what this permanent place meant. So we said that we have as one of the ways of enrolment and active registration, so it refers to Croatian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia but outside. We have a previous registration, those currently located somewhere outside the Republic of Croatia at the moment of the election and we have a provisional entry, those who vote outside their place of residence. If that's how I figured it out. So the premise of permanent residence is the key thing. It determines by us the quality of voter rights consumption. How we define the residence will also define the quality of the consumption of the voting rights of individual categories. This mainly applies, let's be completely open, refers to the category of people in the diaspora, the Croatian diaspora and refers to the category of citizens who are in the status of returnees. So you, I will talk about citizens who are still in the status of returnees, these are primarily citizens of the Republic of Croatia according to all the positive regulations. They did not return because they probably did not get all the necessary conditions for them to return, and thus they cannot acquire the category, consume the category of permanent residence. They are therefore directed to actively register their voting rights. In practice, what does that mean? In practice, this means that they will have to be re-registered before each election cycle and even after the re-elections, so before the re-elections, they will have to re-register each time in consular-diplomatic representations that have a largely limited number. The number of consular offices in which they voted in the last parliamentary elections was no more than 5. So if we go from some practical logic now, if these consular representations were a narrow throat in the election days, and the fact is, and the data tells us that they were a narrow throat in the days of the election, then only then will they be able to cope when, within a short time after the election is called, 10 days until the election is held, they have to consume, or tens of thousands of eligible voters must pass through them. We have a negative experience with such a single job. The same question is also why I say negative experience, because in the last parliamentary elections, only 400 members of the Serb community voted in the consular representations in the Republic of Serbia for the 12th election unit, only 400. So that's the data that should be said not to be laminate about some kind of dangerous thousands or some kind of larger numbers. 400 people voted, used their right to vote for minority representatives in parliament in the last local elections, or parliamentary elections. So, if we go forward now, the experience is that it's mostly one poor population, and it's unrealistic to expect from people who survive barely that before each election cycle it will cross 300, 400 km from its own place of temporary residence where it is there and waiting for a return, come to the consulate in Subotica, separate the day, two to register and so every time before the elections and so every time and before the re-elections. We don't think that's gonna work. And so, for some practical reasons, without politics, for practical reasons, I'm saying this, it's the impression that we're counting on a conscious decline in the number of voters in those two categories. So each election, or we make it difficult or even almost impossible to rule out the possibility that certain categories appear in the elections. That should be taken care of because it's simple because it's a simple life. Finally, it's kind of our question when it's all expensive to sum up whether it's easier to create one single voter, or voter base, to create that list once updated, and then only every new fact that arises is entered. So we think it's even more efficient, we think it's cheaper for the state, and that's also for individuals, i.e. consumers of voting rights. It's kind of our principled attitude if I helped to first read some things crystallize, to technically dress up I'm therefore satisfied. Now I'm going to go through this legal text a little bit. Article 8 of the register of voters is based on the principle of constitutionality. So if it's based on the principle of constitutionality, then I don't see why every time before each election cycle we have to make people show up at some consulates, create a cost and register again. In Article 14, we have a timeline of some sort right now. I don't think in nomotechnical terms it's the usual weather category. Therefore, the time category should tell the start and end of a deadline set by the state authorities in resolving certain rights, especially when it comes to a set of rights stemming from voting law. Article 15 defines the possibility of subsequent input of nationality data which I think is good. Experience has shown that on the voter lists so far often, of course, that is what colleagues from other national minorities, from national minority clubs, have told us, we have the situation that minority voters were listed as the majority people. So this is a chance to make this thing right. The most important thing is Article 17, so Article 17 defines the criteria for erasure from permanent residence records. In principle, it is said here that the procedure will undoubtedly determine the conditions for erasure. So I'd like it to be a little bit more decadent, if we knew here what the conditions are for erasing voters from a permanent residence and referring to active records. That's very important. It is also very important, I am interested in how this whole process will reflect, I repeat, on the category of people who, Croatian citizens, are in the status of returnees. That's very important. It is still a very sensitive first of all category of people and it would not be good to leave that local officials discreetly decide whether someone is in the quality of permanent residence or not in quality. Articles 28, 29 and 30 state how people living outside the Republic of Croatia will be recorded. I still think consular representations will be a technical problem here, and I think the deadline for this is short and that the time limit for the records should be extended. The extract, so members of the national minorities will now have a list, so not a special list of voters but will be so-called. An excerpt from the polling list, which I think is technically good. I also think that the alternative attached under two is an alternative that would fit in that sense. Finally, Article 58 says that re-registration is required in the re-elections. We think that in the re-elections it should not yet be because in this way it is certain that voters will be disintegrated and people will not be stimulated to enroll in the list of voters. So, I'm talking for some practical reasons. First reading, the final record is also required and we ask the minister to develop a model for the second reading and give us some vision of the registration model so that around the citizens in the categories I've been talking about, diaspora and citizens in the status of returnees, do not feel they have the same chance to consume their voting rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18520	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18521	Here's a distinguished colleague said that in the last parliamentary elections, only 400 voters went to consulates in the Republic of Serbia, but what we could and as witnesses, but also as citizens notice that many buses came from Serbia with voters and parliamentary but also to local elections practically bringing them to the polls. And here's exactly what's important is this residence and permanent residence bill. I agree that many have, so to speak, the status of returnees, but this status of returnees has lasted almost since 1995 and 1996, and I believe that the Croatian state has done a lot in many ways, so those who are, and I responsibly claim that no one has driven them out of Eastern Slavonia and Poduneva, but simply that these citizens of the Republic of Croatia have left Croatia alone. We are witnessing that many renovated houses, which, especially in Slavonia and other parts of Croatia, have been restored to actually stare empty today. Maybe it's the lack of work, not the existence of a job, but I argue responsibly that many of these renovated houses have been sold and are serving someone today, someone as a cottage. So first of all, this law should be regulated both in the east and in the south of the country to determine the real situation in the voters' list. So someone can't have a double right to vote. And it should, last sentence, and it should definitely separate local elections and parliamentary elections, in parliamentary elections no one takes away the right to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18522	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica of my colleague Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18523	Thank you. My colleague Vinkovic, so you've said a lot of things here that stand, but you've said something that doesn't stand. First I'll tell you, the public needs to know, so when I opened up the problem of going out, the number of 400 that went out for the parliamentary elections. Then it is correct to say what is bothering you, so in the past local elections, overall at the level of the Republic of Croatia, it came out to vote 4.5 thousand Croatian citizens. So, throughout the Republic of Croatia, at the level of all local self-government. I don't think it's any alarming number, it's just people who intend to return, who consume their right to vote here, and I'm convinced as the minister said they don't have a double right to vote, so they don't vote where they came from. I'm convinced that's the case. And as for reconstruction, so we have made a correct agreement in the past term with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That agreement has come up with a pretty good job of rebuilding housing, of course it's not finished, but I also want to tell you that people don't come back for a variety of reasons, one of these is existence. We must say openly that one reason even security on the ground is still a problem. You can agree with me or not, but that's the way it is. But I also have to tell you that they didn't sell those houses because there's a legal ban and a 10-year deadline for refurbishing real estate. Therefore, when we talk about these things, we need to fully deal with facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18524	And another replica, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18525	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvat cannot be someone or someone more equal than others in the Republic of Croatia. You're talking about 400 outright voters in the area, to say the Republic of Serbia who went to parliamentary elections, last parliamentary elections. You must also know that this right has been denied to people, Croatian citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where there is a limited number of representations, Croatian consulars to which they could go to elections, so it was only Sarajevo and Mostar and nowhere else. And when you look at the results of how many people went to the parliamentary elections, then as far as I remember from the data, it was ok about 4000 of all, of the supposed 300 thousand Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know exactly how much Croatian citizenship has, but a total of 4 thousand came out. So, those from Grud, or I don't know Ljubusko's, or Tomislav had to go to Mostar for a vote. You are talking about this particular problem for people who live, who are Croatian, who have Croatian citizenship and live in Serbia. And one more thing, when you talk about constitutionality, according to article 8 on the principle of constitutionality, then you have to assume that everywhere in Serbia or anywhere, people die. Therefore, there must be a record of those who die, and the number of voters changes accordingly. So, but you see there is another thing, according to this principle numerous non-retirement pensions are paid, therefore, by the Republic of Croatia to those living outside the Republic of Croatia. This is measured by hundreds of millions of kunas, because the home office in the Republic of Serbia is not obliged to inform Croatia of the death of someone who lived in the Republic of Serbia and has Croatian citizenship. And it doesn't belong to pensions that pay off all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18526	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica of my colleague Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18527	I thank my colleague Grubisic. So when I was talking about perseverance then I wanted to say let's make a record and let it be a database that's going to change in fact. So in that sense, I was saying, and I think it would make it easier for all of us to work, not to go ahead of every election in the record, and even before every repeat election in the record, I think it's unnecessary for our people, and I think it's pretty expensive for the state. Peacemaking, so that's the thing that's eternal, whether or not they belong to someone, whether people are coming for retirement or not? So people come for pensions and they're deserved. And as long as someone doesn't officially tell every single person you don't have the right to retire, they're earned, they're gains, they're property rights, and no one can take it because they don't like someone. So there are authorities in both countries, bilateral agreements. I believe that this conversation is already at the level of the ministry... And I think the pensions that are now being consumed have a legal basis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18528	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Management Arsen Bauk reported. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18529	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I want, at least as far as this law is concerned, to answer everything I think is necessary to clarify this, therefore this problem. I must also say that I am glad that at least so far we have no elevated or passionate tones on this subject, which is probably proof of consciousness that something needs to be done. I hope it stays that way for the rest of the debate. So, as far as the term permanent residence and residence is concerned, I think the first sentence after I welcomed the representatives in the opening statement was that this law must go after the Law of residence or the Law of residence, that the term of permanent residence is used here, is so in the law which the MUP has sent, or the Government in the first reading, that in my debate, I will speak the residence for easier clarification that this applies to the question being called. Therefore, the issue of residence, or permanent residence, is a condition for or he tells us where to put a citizen on the list. So if a citizen of the Republic of Croatia lives somewhere in Belgrade or Mostar doesn't matter, and he has an ID card of the Republic of Croatia with that residence or permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia, then he is listed in the list of voters where his identity card lists the residence or residence records and votes in the elections as a rule where his residence is located. And if on the day of the election, it will not be found where its residence can be inactive but temporary registration or prior registration shall be recorded to vote where it is most convenient. There are deadlines when he has to do it. So at this point, that's not what MP Horavat asked. His question in my opinion and knowing the situation went the other way, and that is whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would believe that in most of them he meant the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are currently in Serbia because he mentioned whether they would continue to have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and voting rights in the Republic of Serbia. So this law doesn't regulate it. It's regulated by the residence law. It is therefore also how much I have followed the debate on this law that has been stated. The law provides for certain exceptions that repatriates mentioned there, and I can tell you my position, I hope that's how it'll be in the law. That a citizen who can't return because he has no place to stay, and he who has a place to go and doesn't need to stay. And when he decides to return to the Republic of Croatia he's welcome, then he won't live where he lives anymore. It's my attitude that I'm willing to repeat, explain and defend to anyone. As far as voting by members of the Serb minority for the 12th constituency, this is about citizens who have residences in the Republic of Croatia because only they can vote for 12. The electoral unit, and Serbian national citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia as well as all other citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, have the right to elect three representatives in the diaspora in the 11th constituency. Therefore, voting for the 12th electoral unit abroad is actually an exception and it is about as much to the extent that for the first one, the second to the tenth constituency vote in diplomatic and consular representations. I will remind, in the 2007 parliamentary elections, the results for regular election units abroad turned the result into a 4th and 5th constituency in a way that the HDSSB lost one representative in 4th and the SDP in the 5th constituency for 30th and some votes. But a total of 40,000 voters voted in the 2007 elections abroad for the Croatian electoral units on the 1st to 10th, in 2011 the figure was 20 thousand and in line with this proportional reduction had an impact on one term in the 1st constituency. So that's the exact data. As regards the issue of active registration, therefore, this is an open question for discussion in the first reading on whether this institute should be introduced and with what logic we introduce it. I will repeat by who knows which time but I will continue to repeat, the Institute of Active Registration makes sense if some other institute is to be introduced in the exercise of electoral rights and not just voting in places at diplomatic consular offices. It can be fixed in this form in a way that is prescribed to be actively registered at the beginning of a certain year and that the active registration takes 4 years. It's already a fix. And that there is then a more realistic voter list to assess costs more realistically, as well as that citizens are aware of the technical circumstances Mr Grubisic was saying would achieve his electoral right. There are also other mechanisms to increase the number of days when it can be voted in the embassies, to define in which period it can be voted, etc. 'Cause we've got two days now. I'm inclined to increase the number of days but the last day is not Sunday but Saturday, so on Sunday we only have elections in Croatia. It's easier to control. This increased the ability to vote, but we also put more control in place. And the second is what some other institutions of countries that have a large diaspora such as Italy can do, and that is now a question for discussion, as we have had an open discussion among the parties about changes to the Constitution, so we can also have about voting the diaspora in some other way and not just at polling stations. So that's an open offer if there's an agreement on the other side. So as far as this formulation is concerned, what MP Horvat has mentioned so far has been three days, but the connection of the system allows it to be de facto after the election can be transferred, if the norm needs to be corrected, it can be done. As far as the re-voting is concerned, it's about the second round. So we had a problem, let's say, if you were to apply for the first round of elections somewhere, because you wanted to vote for the President of the Republic, and in the meantime you'd come home, that it was a problem to go home. So right now we're just prescribing that you can ask for a temporary entry or prior registration, so voting outside the place of residence just for the first round, just for the second round or for both circles. So the intensity is to facilitate the vote. And of course, as far as this is concerned, if it is undoubtedly determined, for example if we have 10 persons registered at one address, five of whom are the family of the current owner and five persons of the family of the former owner who sold the house, who moved abroad, and for some reason left in the record, that is doubtless why someone doesn't live somewhere. Whether it will be determined by civil servants in the offices of the state administration, this will be forwarded to the police or by the police under the residence law. So it's a matter of discussion, but we want a part, because mostly the Ministry of Administration and apostrophe on the voter lists, although we are all aware that this is a bigger role played by the police than the administration itself. So we also want to give them our contribution to settle this area as soon as possible so that we can focus on some other topics in the electoral process. And I'm glad you support this part of the alternative to the vote of members of the national minorities. This is a rather sensitive issue, and I believe that there are certain differences where specific cases are going to be processed, especially when we simulate the situation at the polling station. My view is that citizens who wish to achieve their general electoral right must be leveled, and if they want to achieve an additional voting right to take one more step. And now it's the other way around, those who want to achieve additional voting rights have to take one more step, and those who want to achieve a general electoral right must take two more steps, and no one is equal to other citizens who are members of the national minority and should certainly change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18530	Thank you. The Republic has a colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18531	In many ways, I would agree with the minister because it was indeed time to introduce the order in both the list and the register of voters. However, we are witnessing that here in the diaspora and BiH as well as in the entire diaspora, so it is not only BiH or I want to repeat what was in 2007, that the diaspora cannot affect how we will live in Croatia. This should especially apply to local elections, but the composition of the Croatian Parliament should be closely tied to the Croatian diaspora and the fact is that these last parliamentary elections have shown not that the Croats in BiH are not interested in elections for the Croatian Parliament, they simply do not have the opportunity to go to the elections because they have practically only two options: go to Sarajevo or Mostar. And as for all these choices so far, there were also things that reminded us of that movie, "When the dead sing," that's probably still happening today, I just don't know if the guy who interpreted Ivo Gregorevic except that pension from Germany came out a few times to the elections, but it's all the things that were happening. And it definitely needs to determine the list of voters and not only should it be tied to the day of the election, but it takes this time that it was, that 10 days when they start to extend everything to at least two months, 60 days and it should be a narrow one relationship because it can happen in those 60 days to someone and die. Maybe he's not getting anybody's pension, but that list should be...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18532	Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18533	Last sentence. And definitely...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18534	You always have your last line when you're over 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18535	So 15 seconds, I'm just appealing to what we said on the Committee on Local Self-Government. A lot of people break and a minute and two. You should definitely leave that polling committee because it's a body that had insight into the voters list far better quality than this one today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18536	Thank you very much. Replica response, Minister Arsen Bauk please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18537	As you can agree with most of what I said, so I can agree with most of what you said. As for the vote in BiH, the vote of the Croatian diaspora, it was an open dispute in the constitutional changes. The solution that is now in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the compromise of two political options, with much more we must acknowledge the coups on our part won by the ruling party then because it has in some way reduced the rights of the citizens who voted in the diaspora. Therefore, it was in some way assessed that it was more important to make constitutional changes for joining the European Union than to have narrow party interests in that part and it is commendable, regardless of the criticism they received from one part of their voters and MPs who were then at the HDZ club. And as for voting in local elections, it is absolutely that the voter list has a greater impact on local elections than on state clear because of election units because there are 300,000 electoral units here, and the MP is worth 16,000 or 20, and in local elections we have a unit, let's say by 1,000, 500, 500 comes out, 11 is elected and the vote is somewhere, 40 votes one MP, one councilman. Therefore, it is absolutely that it has a greater impact on local elections. As far as this committee is concerned, that's the part I disagree with. So now, according to this proposal, at any moment the council will have insight into the voters' list, and then the commission only signed before the elections what the state administration would give it or would not sign, and then the court would say it was a voter's list. So there was no case that the commission had changed the voter list but if it hadn't signed it then the court would have ruled that it was a voter's list. So in that part I invite you to see if your attitudes are correct a little bit more. I think this is better, but I'll allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18538	Next replica of counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18539	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you have also responded to Mr. Horvat, and in your introduction you spoke about the active registration of voters, and here exactly here is the reason that this will all be carried out exclusively by informative means, by exchanging data between officials of the diplomatic consular office of the Republic of Croatia and the competent office. I don't know, and we've heard here today, the flow through these diplomatic consular representations, it's like that when you consume voters' rights, and now it's going to be even worse if you keep in mind that only 10% of such populations are informational written. I believe you've considered that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18540	The answer to the replica of Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18541	So when we talk about information flow, we thought about the flow between the diplomatic consular representation where the voter would come or otherwise contact the demanding registration and the competent authority in the Republic of Croatia which would only confirm that this voter is in the voters' register and that there is no obstacle to active registration. So this is about informational flow, and it's already worked in previous elections. What we must make the political decision is therefore the introduction of an active registration institute as a prerequisite for the introduction of some other institutes into the diaspora vote. If that's what we can achieve agreement on, well, if we don't, it'll stay as it has been. So that's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18542	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSU Club, colleague Zeljko Schamper. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18543	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill that has long been expected to finally edit the troublelisting lists of voters. Every election, no matter which one, and we have them every year, could not have gone without saying that our voter lists are missing, that there are even the deceased on them. The right of grounds for drawing up this proposal for the Law on the Registration of Voters should be recently adopted by the Law on residence, which should finally be addressed by all the problems surrounding the residence of citizens and their exact addresses. Therefore, in order to create an accurate and applicable register of voters, it is necessary to implement all provisions and to implement the residence law on an up-to-date basis. If a citizen is to disobey the provisions of this law or the registers of voters, then even the lists of voters will not be as they should be and as we want them to be. In particular, voters with registered residence abroad whose list is based on data on issued travel documents, residence addresses and country of residence are problematic. The current law has failed to resolve a number of issues and problems all these years in order to settle a list of voters, which in public is perceived to always have something cloudy in the elections. According to the latest census, we have fewer than 4 million and 300,000 inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia, and there are 4.5 million voters in the parliamentary elections from the end of last year. Of that number, 411 thousand diaspora voters. It turns out that we in the Republic of Croatia only have 200,000 inhabitants under the age of 18 which, of course, is not true. It is not clear why the list of last year's population, according to which we cannot use most of the data after a year and a half after the completion of the list. According to the draft law, the establishment of a register of voters as a single electronic database of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have an electoral authority and voting law is also prescribed, pardon. The register of voters consists of three records. The first is the records of Croatian citizens with permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia according to the place of residence, the second is the records of Croatian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia and are registered by countries where they have a registered residence abroad. In the third record, EU citizens exercising electoral law in the Republic of Croatia are enrolled according to the place of permanent or temporary residence in the Republic of Croatia, with the conditions laid down by specific laws. Persons who have lost their right to vote as a result of death, the termination of Croatian citizenship or a judicial decision are deleted from the voters' register. In that part of the law, Article 64, Article 17(1) and Article 14(4) should be cautious because the process of eradicating voters' registers must be in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, i.e. that judicial confiscation of a business capacity cannot be a reason to deny constitutionally guaranteed voting law. In the final draft of the law, the right solution should be found to prevent any attempt to manipulate their votes or to lose electoral rights. This bill brings about a positive change for voters who have thus far been difficult to achieve their electoral rights under the current law. They are mostly pensioners located in welfare institutions, and they could only vote at the polling station according to the registered address of the residence. For this special category of voters, the directors of these social care institutions will now be obliged to provide data to the office according to their place of residence. One of the newspapers that has not been published so far is the Institute of Active Registration according to which it is prescribed that Croatian citizens who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia and who wish to vote in elections for the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic, the European Parliament or the referendum should be actively registered. Active registration abroad will be carried out by diplomatic and consular representatives of the Republic of Croatia, and in Croatia, the competent office according to where voters will meet on election day or referendum. For each election, only actively registered voters will enter the voters' list, so a significantly smaller number of voters can be expected from the previous round of 400,000 from the diaspora. The 2010 Constitution found that voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia can only vote in the headquarters of a few diplomatic and consular representatives of the Republic of Croatia. As it is known, in a large number of states voters are even thousands of kilometers away, it certainly makes it difficult for them to exercise electoral rights and puts them in an unequal position compared to other voters who do not have such problems. That is why there is also a requirement for these voters to be put in place the possibility of an additional vote in order to assist them in the exercise of electoral rights, while of course there are individuals who say they should not even vote in the elections in Croatia but in the country where they pay the tax. In addition to the Institute of Active Registration, the Institute of Previous Registration is also prescribed for Croatian citizens with permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia who will find themselves on election day or referendum abroad and the Institute of Temporary Registration for Croatian citizens with permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia who wish to vote outside the place of permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia. After the voter register is arranged, a list of voters shall be drawn up and concluded by a solution no later than 8 days before the day specified for holding the election or referendum. For local elections, the list of voters concludes the head of the office in whose area elections are held, and the deadline is 10 days before the election allows for more time to register, correct or supplement the data entered in the register of voters, as well as the other registrations provided for. I have a comment on Article 12, which speaks of what all data is needed for voter records, and it is probably not clear to the citizens why, with the citizens' home number before 3.4, an OIB's personal identification number was introduced, and now some institutions are asking for a small number, a small number. It seems to me that the citizens' home number is now only used to test the memory of the citizens, especially us pensioners, and then we pretend to be important on the counters when we recite 13 numbers from the rifle. That is how this article 12 requires both data, and they both fell long ago, at the beginning of the war, so there should be one here, one that is too much. It's not clear what that double I.D. is for. I think the Department of Administration should be determined according to this problem. Only one of them is enough, for example the OIB, because it is important to be in full IT application, to be used for what is intended, and not for citizens to still break the thresholds of the home offices, the MUP and other institutions and collect various certificates and beliefs. The HSU Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18544	Thank you very much. It is next to the HNS club and counterpart Nada Turin-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18545	Dear Madam Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS will support and welcome this bill and I think it is necessary to congratulate the Ministry of Administration and Mr Bauk because here in the past month we have had another law that is a prerequisite for realisation and this law, that is, the Law on residence, or permanent residence. And we have to say that this law is so well mathematically elaborated, if I may make a little joke and that, surely, the minister also has his merits here, and that perhaps some other ministry, too, under his proposals, could use mathematics more, not to say logic. Because it is very difficult here in this proposal to find some major leeways, except perhaps some additional proposals for some improvements that the minister himself has already pointed out in his opening address. So we seem to be technically, logically offering what we've all actually expected, and that's introducing order into the voters' list through the Election Register Act. However, I will say a few words, in fact on the political dimension of this law, we in the HNS believe that both this law and the Law on residence is a first-class, political first-rate law. In fact, it is assumed that these laws, and we believe that these laws will remove most of those doubts that were created in our citizens after the elections when the results were published, means the percentages, the voter's going to the polls, and often the results themselves. In fact, it doubts whether the election result is correct or credible is something that bites the very essence of democracy and parliamentaryism and parliamentary democracy. And that is what is most important if we succeed in applying this law, that is, it may be our only objection or question whether we are able to do so after the adoption of this law and these laws which are the prerequisite or the Law on residence, whether we are in a state of relatively short time until the next first elections, and I assume that this will be applied to them, given that at that moment there will be elections for the EU Parliament, whether we are able to update or coordinate in most of the conditions that we now have with what we would like to achieve through the application of this law. So far, in a political sense, everything has been legal so far, and no one here has disputed that part of the law, however, because of these concerns whether the lists were neat or not, that it was possible to manipulate and that it was not proven, but that it had been manipulated in certain places where it could have meant whether these choices were legitimate or whether those chosen were really chosen in the most correct way that the law allows? This is a key issue in our view which we will address by this law, and therefore, of course, the CNS will support this proposal by making several things that are highlighted in the debates of colleagues, which the minister himself has indicated as something that is possible to specify or agree through the debate to create a political will to go into some changes that are a little innovative in this law, which is the Institute of Active Registration that the HNS will support. However, with this active registration institute, except that it would be possible to mobilise the number of people who could use the right to vote, I think we should think about what the minister has indicated, I would like him to say it more explicitly here from this pay phone, which are opportunities to provide better conditions or create better conditions for people living outside the Republic of Croatia and who would approach the vote. In fact, since this whole process is supposed to require a very high level of information because, as we have read, everything will go electronically. I don't know if we're ready at this point, but probably the minister knows and how much resources it will take to get that whole teaming system back so the law can liven up. In fact, is it possible for us to expect the proposal to go to an electronic vote during the next period? Whether this is happening in the light of such situations, whether it is possible, of course, in today's time of comprehensive information, I think personally, and we in the party think it is not impossible for those citizens of those voters who have that possibility, of course, along with the traditional model that regulates classical voter turnout. So the questions we ask in this regard are they possible and how will it be possible to improve these conditions, you have only indicated them, and might that include the possibility of electronic voting? The question is whether we have the resources to implement this law and there was another issue about local elections. I also agree with the majority of the findings that it may most strongly contain the disorientation of the voter list in the local elections, and that in the small election units, our municipalities and smaller towns, where 50 votes ruled decisively on the number of seats won, as well as the choice of leaders. I hope that this law, which we will once again read about this permanent residence or residence, will be effective enough to take care of this situation in this short time until the next local elections, because all of us and all of us in politics know that in such small polling stations it has been manipulated, that it literally led citizens to elections and in some way distorted the actual picture of the election results that it would not have seemed. Here is the CNS once again, I say, it will support this bill and we hope that all these suggestions, or issues that are open here, will be discussed and included in the bill by the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18546	Thank you very much, colleague. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica has a colleague Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18547	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague said that this law is well mathematically complex, that it sends a strong political message and that it is politically complex, I agree with it all. I don't agree that he's well mathematically complex. This is well politically complex and in the tradition of Croatian political nonsense. These are nails on the coffin of one stupidity, and mostly I mean stupidity in relation to the Croatian diaspora, according to people, Croats, citizens of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia. And all that's been going on for the past 20 years on this issue, I don't agree with much, so you know my position. So we have to tell the Croatian citizens what this is about. After this law, Croats who manipulated something from Bosnia and Herzegovina applied to Imotski in Posje will no longer be able to do so. Good Serbian people have gone to Serbia, they will be able to do so even if they are legally capable, although I agree that this is no longer a crucial issue if only 4500 people come from Serbia. I don't think that's the key either. What I want to replicate, that the past government has caved under the pressures of SDP, HNS and others in some way wise men who have said we will not enter the European Union if the Croats from the diaspora i.e. You do not remove the number of parliamentary mandates from BiH. This is what Slovenia is doing today, give us the sea of Croats, if we will not let you into the European Union. The Croats give us your stamps from the Ljubljanska banka, we won't let you go. Now, you gentlemen, we will not enter the European Union to the Croats from Bosnia. Oh, please. That's the categories you're thinking about. If this was to be fixed, and I agree that it should then be told to the Croats from BiH one term, South America one term, North America one term, Australia one term. I think diaspora...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18548	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18549	Final sentence. She deserves to have a mandate as many as there are national minorities, 8-8. You can have 16 national minorities, you can...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18550	Thank you very much. Replication response. ... Comrade Marasovic, we get it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Replica response, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18551	We regret in the HNS that the Croats in BiH have burned that only their interests are being defended by the HDZ gentleman. They know very well how they live in BiH, how they have been treated for all these nearly 20 years by HDZ authorities. So much for concern. And as far as voting rights are concerned, I do not see where it says that the election law of the Croats in BiH will be suspended anywhere on the basis of the adoption of this law, and what is their interest and what is the interest of the Croats in BiH after this law is passed, we will see it. They will, of course, have their right, and even the minister said it should discuss and open the topic of whether in some way bringing those people outside Croatia closer to making it easier and more accessible to realise their electoral right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18552	Thank you very much. Replica has a colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18553	Thank you very much. You are not right in your replica, nor in your speech. Namely, your representative in talks with the government of Jadranka Kosor insisted on a single representative of the diaspora in the parliamentary elections. It was Mr. Cacic and Mrs. Vesna Pusic and don't tell me that you didn't participate in what Mr. Duje said. The second thing I wanted to replicate, namely, you're talking about regularity, regularity when voting lists are arranged, and I agree that they are being arranged, that this is really a very long time to settle it, not because of Europe, but because of ourselves and the results that will be real, which will be real. But as someone said, in our policy it doesn't matter who's voting or who's choosing, it's important who's counting, so who's on those boxes that are still with us and the DIP, it's not the minister, it's the DIP, the boxes are opaque, cardboard, not transparent, not glass or plastic to see the number of ballots coming in. Secondly, not to check the voters' identity until the end, that he cannot vote twice with that spray as you see it in all other countries when we have reports of elections in Montenegro. And the third option is to vote by electronic means, by checking digital or papal lines, as Estonia does, for example. So you can vote from home on the Internet that you don't even go to the polls but he recognizes you because he has a file on our Vučetić, a index finger, a papal line on the index finger, and he knows exactly who voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18554	Replica response, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18555	This is when we mention the presidents or representatives of political parties, I think Mr. Grubisic and his political party are the last to talk about it since they really have a doctor of science related to the number of votes, the transfer of ballot boxes, and not in the party where he is now but in the party he used to be in. Therefore, I really think they're declassified from such parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18556	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Boro Grubisic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18557	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I ask you to take action according to Article 216, at least if you do not step away from this session because the lady knowingly deceives the Croatian public. The HDSSB never won the election that way, and the HNS hid behind SDP's lap to get 12, 13 MPs. The HDSSB goes to elections alone and without election fraud as you do with election engineering, Mrs Turin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18558	Thank you very much. I don't think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. And counterpart Zoran Vinkovic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18559	Article 216 has been injured because this is really what I would not say about insults, but if the representative has evidence of what she said then I call on all the competent institutions of the Republic of Croatia to arrest all those who have received the elections in such a way. So I'm saying that what she's saying is that this is an obsession with something that there are institutions to treat obsession and that this is not a speech that is appropriate in this House. So here is a political party that won in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and has practically become the strongest political option there to deal with stealing in the elections. And you say that it doesn't deserve a warning, and the people say one saying, "Who are you with?"
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18560	Thank you very much. In the same way you spoke about the injury of the Rules of Procedure as well as your colleague Turina Đuric to the reply to the replica, so I will not give her or you a warning. Thank you very much. Next club, HDZ club and colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18561	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. After this very chamber atmosphere that ruled while talking about the law, however, we are now a little awake, I will try to say on behalf of the HDZ Club our position on this law and perhaps the circumstances that have led to the changes and what has been so far as to be a solution to the Law on Lists of Voters. First of all, Mr. Minister also spoke about constitutional changes, and he gave me some idea that something should be said that it might be clearer to understand what this is changing and what it should look like today. Therefore, the latest amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 which were necessary among other things and due to the accession of the Republic of Croatia have been used by some to impose some of their solutions, opinions, views which they held so important that they must be found in the very text of the Constitution. The ones I'm talking about back then were the opposition, and today they're representing a position, so it's logical that your ideas that were trying to build into the Constitution are currently being developed by special laws. Thus, one of the requirements in the agreement and in reaching consensus on the amendments to the Constitution was also the requirement of the opposition at the time that the number of representatives of the evicted Croatia or the diaspora should be reduced to a minimum number, so at the end of the talks, negotiations and the agreement, the number of representatives of the emigrated Croatia or the diaspora came to three. Of course, this number does not refer to any other appropriate proportions, and some today have talked about how many MPs should be present and what sizes should be served. If it is, and I will speak really in general numbers, in the list of voters in the Republic of Croatia about 4 million people, and those living outside Croatia 400 thousand, it is quite simple to calculate that 10% of voters are outside the Republic of Croatia, so they should be adequately represented in Parliament. Whether it's the best ratio or the ideal ratio of these three that we have today remains for discussion, but it would lead us too far and would have nothing to do with this law today but with some other rights. What we wanted to say in the opening, and we will stick to it since it is the first reading, and I will not agree with all the predecessors, fortunately, the Law on permanent residence has not yet been passed, he just passed the first reading in the Assembly, some things we may repeat and related to this because they are unfortunately very, very bound together without each other is quite difficult to observe. First we'll have some principled remarks and terminology. Someone was disturbed by the list of voters, i.e. it can be understood that the term register is a broader term, so it includes more than what the voters themselves would represent and we can agree on. But if the termological difference has already been introduced, so this law is called the Law on Election Registration, we're introducing a register, and we're keeping a list, and then a pretty big confusion introduces the third term that you've introduced, and that's now a record. So if the list and the register aren't synonyms quite likely, I'm not a language expert, but we think the record is actually a synonym for the list, so if it's two different categories, it would be smart to call them. The second termological remark is to the government, and it is regrettable that this has failed, that you are talking here about the rights of EU citizens. There are no more citizens, there are still citizens of EU member states. EU citizenship if, in accordance with this law, a consistent interpretation would be a limiting factor for many of the rights that you attach to these laws. What we think is most important and important for this law, and this is a consistent policy implementation of our position, is that you make this law the difference between voters who, even under the Constitution, have the right to vote. And that is something that leads us and practically forces us to appeal to you again that this law is not in accordance with the Croatian Constitution. And why not? Because according to the Croatian Constitution, every citizen with 18 years of age has an electoral right, let us put aside for now those who have taken away their business ability because it is really a small number compared to most of the population. Neither the government nor the Prime Minister, so was Mr. Zoran Milanovic, and neither the minister of the administration has the right to take the voter's right to people who are entitled to the Croatian Constitution. And you cannot limit their right to vote by, say, the provision of article 4 of your law: "Accounting in the voter register is a condition for the exercise of voting rights on the day of the election and the referendum." This one on election day and voter's referendum does not in itself mean much, voting rights or you have or do not have it, you will have it before and after the election, and before or after the referendum. We also pointed out this objection to the Committee on the Constitution and we received answers as to how it is regulated and in the current law, but you forgot to say that there was nothing in the current law that you have now introduced, a new institute, which is for some people who do not register, you can delete from the list of voters. It is this new Institute of Active Registration, and this is the institute we hold to oppose the Croatian Constitution. Because since you've been quoting article 45. The constitution that speaks of electoral law must also take into account Article 14 which tells you that all citizens are equal before the law. And since we have voters living in Croatia and outside Croatia. And outside Croatia in many different ways and many more categories than those you mentioned. It is not true that those living outside Croatia are only Croats living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and those Serbs who left Croatia live in Serbia today or as you said in the overseas countries. They probably live in the work of European countries, but it is completely irrelevant for this debate. There are a whole series of people who have failed to comply with the rules of the former state or the Republic of Croatia, who do not enter those two categories, but by violating those obligations the law has imposed, they have also caused problems in the list of voters. What does that mean exactly? If a person in 1970 moved out of the Republic of Croatia and settled permanently in Austria and did not report to the competent police administration the fact that he is moving out of the Republic of Croatia, then he is still on the voters list today, because no one, by official duty, has ever been able to delete him or her from the list. And that's the problem that's being added to these polling issues that we have. Now, of course, it would be extremely unpopular if we were to oppose this law because HDZ would appear to be the only one who is not in favour of putting order into the voters' list. However, we are very interested as all other parties to make the list of voters an exact record, if and to what extent it is possible. And I'm glad that some of our colleagues who have recently prevented the adoption of a residence law where there was the possibility that you might, on official duty, delete some of the residence records, and then from the list of voters. That today they have probably changed their views after further reflection, so today they support such a law and support the possibility that you are officially removed from your residence if you are unquestionably or unquestionably found that you do not live there. However, how this will be determined both within what time limits and when the Law on residence will come into force, we do not yet know and no one has said so. And it is highly doubtful that when the law enters into force, the residence, and then, in addition, this Law on the register of voters will be sufficient time for you to do so technically. We had a whole series of remarks and the technique as you imagined to conduct the elections, but probably at this stage, in the first reading of the law we will not amount to or thus burden this entire set. But I think it's important to say that by completely removing the electoral commissions from the application of the law and the implementation of the election and some jurisdiction you gave to the Ministry of Administration, you have de facto avoided the judicial protection that existed as the legitimate right of all voters to make objections to the voters' lists. And by doing so, I think you've committed another major problem, because you've declared the Department of Administration as central that it will be competent to resolve all the objections you get from that group of people who will be deleted from the voters list. The only one of you probably doesn't know what it would look like if you get 10,000 complaints before the election, how do you think the ministry will solve them and within what time? And in this law, you didn't write a deadline to resolve your objections. You can win the objections of those who have been deleted from the list of voters and have not set a deadline within which you must resolve these objections, and without it I think that measure is completely declassified and unnecessary. As far as the technical application of the law is concerned, I think this is not sufficiently precise so that this law, as it was proposed, could be implemented in the first place, and that there will actually be a great danger that instead of going, we will further complicate the implementation of any choice in this way. But what is a fundamental question of the law and which actually imposes on us that other things and we don't need to talk much, cannot be taken by this law to the voters, prescribed by the Republic of Croatia and can no longer be created by category of voters, and then we will share them according to where they will decide at what point to achieve their voting right. When we talked about this law, I asked strangely that civil society associations, at least we didn't have any objections to this law, I was told that the DIP and specifically one of the associations were involved in the drafting of this law, but you failed to say that you received comments from the DIP. Some of them are precisely with this goal of understanding that this is not easy to edit the election procedure, that this is not the best way to make it possible for us to know at the end of the election itself, because as long as there is an obligation that some voters will be voters only if the applications are voted in certain elections, we will never know what the total number of voters are and which of them can be reported to you in order to participate in the election process. And if you do not have a total number of voters, then it is very difficult to determine the rights that belong to some among others and to national minorities who have the right in view of the percentage of the voter list. Your list of voters especially for evicted Croatia will only have those who remember, come and register. The rest of you will be deleted from the list of voters, and that's what the law says, and you can't do that. And that is why we believe that this active registration is an instrument that will reduce the number of voters, regardless of the fact that there are elections abroad between 17% and 19% of eligible voters, no one gives you the right to introduce it into the law and to delete all others and whenever they have the right to report, come to the elections and vote. Of course. Our experience was also such that the DIP and through its election committees, which perfectly correctly allowed all those who were in the voters' list, regardless of whether they had valid documents, was only important to prove their identity. [[Intruder: Please bring the end.]] Thank you very much. The HDZ will surely be against this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18562	Thank you very much. The first replica has a colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18563	I'm glad my colleague Mlakar mentioned constitutional changes. I think we all remember that there has been an amendment to the Constitution because the first amendments to the Constitution were conditioned by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, where among other things required for a certain national minority to have legal personality, territorial structure and a special way of financing. On the other hand, HDZ agreed to compromise then with the other SDP party and practically reduced the number of MPs from the Croatian diaspora to three. I am now surprised by the HDZ's concern about the Croatian diaspora. Although I agree greatly with my colleague that very few Croats in the Croatian diaspora will go to this election because they do not have a great motive, they can only have three MPs. How many constitutional changes are also made by the electoral law cemented by the agreement between the HDZ and the SDSS of then three MPs. So it's a fact of constitutional change. And I'd like to ask you, Madam Vice President, to listen very carefully to what your colleague Turin said. So I don't see the possibility that it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure because she accused one political option that she directed the elections, stole the elections, that she was wearing ballot boxes that I didn't know what she was doing in those elections. Probably the lady doesn't know if she has about 2% along with her political option, and I don't know what the DIP was doing then, what the election boards were doing, which was done by the president of the DIP, who's a state official, has a coefficient of 6.42 and a salary of about 25 thousand kuna. And that's not scary for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18564	Thank you very much, colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18565	In democratic Croatia at the entry into the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18566	You used the answer to the replica to polarize with me. And I refer you to Article 211 of the consolidated Rules of Procedure to request the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Replication response. ... You got it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18567	This refined, editorially refined text of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament interests me in which newspaper did the National Journal go out? ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18568	It wasn't published but you got it, they got all the MPs. ... Sit down, please. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Answer to the replica of my colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18569	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vinkovic, I am pleased that you have raised this issue although you have then gone to some extent, but only for your information, every association that is included in the Register of Associations, and there are enough three people to establish it by the very act of enrolment in the register acquires legal personality, which means that it acquires the possibility of exercising rights and responsibilities in legal traffic. There was no specific intention or particularly regulated position of some associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18570	Thank you very much. Next replica. Please, colleague Vinkovic. Please. You didn't get the word. My colleague, Jadranka Kosor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's colleague Mlakar, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, mentioned the changes to the Constitution in 2010 and the fact that, of course, we had to do this job to continue negotiations. So I would like to mention that we, the Constitution, had to change first and foremost because through these changes we were strengthening the independence of certain institutions, so this was extremely important for the continuation of the negotiations, which we were asked to do. First of all, I mean the CNB, the state's attorney's office, but also the State Judicial Council, the Council of Lawyers, etc. But then the diaspora vote was neither a condition nor anyone in the European Commission talked to the Croatian government, but then the opposition conditionaled on the amendments to the Constitution or the vote of the Constitution, the amendment of the Constitution, because of the fact that we had to do it 2/3 mostly to touch and the right to vote on Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia. And the initial position above all of SDP was then no one really could vote anyone living outside Croatia in any elections in the Republic of Croatia and then, of course, we had to come to a compromise in order to change the Constitution at all and continue our negotiations, and we certainly came to that quota of 3. However, I would like to mention, fellow Mlakar, as you recall, that the idea of voting exclusively abroad was a proposal from the opposition and that we as the ruling majority were then to succeed in this business and to end the negotiations and to agree to it, of course respecting first and foremost the other provision and value of the Croatian Constitution on the right of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have the right to go to elections and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18572	Thank you very much. We don't have an answer. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18573	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I also thank my fellow Mlakar for the remarks and criticism of the law, they will be seriously considered, some of them quite certainly and accepted. I'd like to make some clarifications, though. So what Mrs. Kosor said I was going to say in response, so it wasn't a minimum request, the request was zero. It can be considered mathematically minimal, but it was a requirement. On the other hand, we had a situation, and in the 2007 elections, we put it as our electoral election, so either we decide in Croatia, we didn't win that election, whether that's why I don't think so, but it doesn't matter, but we never hid that political stance. And on the other hand, we had a situation of a non-fixed quota which was the starting position for the other side and you weren't in the hall but in response to the replica, I commended your willingness that because of the greater interest, so the interest of Croatia's entry into the European Union in constitutional changes, we also considered this aspect and we found a solution to what the SDP president and the head of opposition Zoran Milanovic will say for the next 10, 20 years. So that's how it's set up and it's in the Constitution and it absolutely needs to be taken as some kind of fact about which change we can renegotiate. The current structure of representatives in the Croatian Parliament of any dominant political option does not guarantee 2/3 of the majority, therefore all major changes require an agreement and that is how it is now. However, according to the current Constitution before the changes, we had since 1992 and 1995 in the elections to elect 12 MPs for the diaspora according to this ratio Mr. Mlakar spoke of. After that, '99. A non-fix quota was included in the election. To be honest, HDZ then had a convincing majority in the Parliament and not President Tudjman had to agree to it, so it was reduced from 12 to 6 or as long as it went to the polls. So it was already thought that this proportionality was not quite so logical. But we had another case, members of the Serb minority in the voter list, if that model were applied, would be 9 by the number of voters and the total number of voters in Croatia, so the number of voters of the Serb nationality and the number of voters in total, that would be 200 and a few thousand, and political arbitration would be 3 changes to the constitutional law since 2002, so it was not an agreement between the HDZ and the SDSS but rather an agreement between the HDZ and the SDP. In 2002, I think it's gonna be 10 years now. But also in the period before that was one, '99. Only one Serb minority representative was elected in the election, therefore it was a matter of political agreement that was reached at the time. I believe that the political agreement between the HDZ and the SDSS in the 2010 electoral law was good. I have criticised the proposal as an advocate, not because of the principle, which is that the mandates are being carried out on the general list, but because of how the mandate is calculated. But I do believe that the principle of a non-fixed quota would be appropriate for parties competing in a special electoral unit for the Serb minority, and then it would not be guaranteed 3 but would be as much as they get votes, and that vote must be the same vote value on the general list. So that's my attitude I've repeated several times. Therefore, on the trail of that solution, I will be slightly improved as a minister to keep it awake and the Government's proposal in the Croatian Parliament, whether it will be accepted the question is. As for the name register, list and records, I think if I'm not mistaken, it's mentioned in the home records of the Ministry of the Interior. That's the kind of expression they use, so we put it that way. If there's a chance of evening that out, we'll consider it. As regards the provision that we are talking about citizens of the European Union, Article 3 says: "The register of voters is a collection of personal data on the voting rights of all Croatian citizens with foreign residence in the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia and citizens of EU Member States." That is what the article 3 reads, and then it reads in the further text of EU citizens as further referenced. Article 3(1) is therefore the only thing in the text below that is otherwise used in the laws in order not to list the full term. But if it doesn't stand nomotechnically, it'll be fixed even though I don't see it. So it's about citizens of EU Member States. As regards the exercise of electoral rights, Article 4 of the voter register is a condition for the exercise of voting rights on the day of the election and the referendum. In the current law you said well it states that enrollment in the list of voters is a condition for achievement. Now, let's see who gets into the voters' register. The register of voters is therefore a collection of personal data on the voter list of all Croatian citizens with foreign residence in Croatia and Croatian citizens who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia. So, we say that the condition for the exercise of the electoral right is that you are a (a) a Croatian citizen with a foreign residence in Croatia and (b) a Croatian citizen who does not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia with voting rights. So in the register of voters are all who are now in the list of voters, no one from the register of voters who have Croatian citizenship and 18 years will be deleted. Such, and this business ability you yourself said in the debate, so no one from the voters' register will be deleted from the register. And in order for someone to exercise their right to vote, they must be in the register. So it must be a Croatian citizen, an electorate, over 18 years of age with residence in Croatia or outside the Republic of Croatia. So, I don't see the issue of that provision. As for the polling committees, we'll consider it. I think you thought about the committees of local self-government not election committees because they didn't think they were even so far, so the commission of local self-government. However, the practice so far has shown that there would therefore be a commission, would get a list of voters, most would sign it, a small part would not and would then appeal to the court and the court would rule. So that's what we're going to consider and I think we're taking responsibility this way because otherwise we've delegated responsibility to local self-government. So what management would list would give local self-government to sign. They could take it or leave it, we will or we won't. They couldn't have changed too much. I think this is more correct according to the local self-government team than the council will have insight into the voters' register throughout the term of office. Now, so for that institute if the repairs can be considered. As regards the meaning of participation in the working group, therefore representatives of a non-governmental association and two DIP members participated, where, after we received comments, we considered them and accepted one part. What has been accepted and what has not been accepted is therefore in the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we must do when we deliver laws to be seen about all the objections and we will do so for a second reading. As far as the polls are concerned, that's one rather interesting question. Therefore, in the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament there is no voter's mass to the constituency. I will repeat, in the Law on Elections of MPs for the Croatian Parliament there is no electoral mass to the constituency. Why? Because on the day of the election, members of national minorities from the 12th constituency voters who want to vote are being transferred to the polls of the general electoral units and we do not know how many voters are enrolled in 10 constituencies until the election is over. In the past elections, therefore, over 100,000 members of the national minorities have increased the constituency of the electoral unit on the day of the election. With such a proposal if there is an alternative, we will at least know the voter's mass on election day and these changes on election day will be much less than they are now. So, I don't see that problem as far as the polls are concerned, from the point of view of constitutionality. As far as national minorities are concerned, the Constitutional Law has laid down their rights and there is always a question of legitimacy. Why do some national minorities have the right to choose MPs on their own, and some who are bigger have to choose MPs with 6 other national minorities? It's the same legitimate question, but it'll be as agreed by consensus. As far as identifying identities in the polling post is concerned, this is not a question regulated by the Law on Election Registers or the list of voters, which means that the practice so far has been quite liberal in terms of identifying identities and I believe it is good. If we have a settled list of voters identifying identities, there's no political fact. She's had a political fact so far because the voters' lists weren't quite done properly. And as for active registration, so since my time is running out, I'm going to have to contact one more time after one of the MPs to explain that instrument. So here's how many so far. I thank you for your comments, and they will be seriously considered. I'm sorry you're against the law and in your first reading, but it's your right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18574	You'll get an opportunity to explain something very quickly because we have four replicas registered to this exhibit. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad that this story of constitutional changes and practically political trade opened up, which is what someone in a mild sense calls consensus or agreement. But the truth is someone here in the House was then saying that it was primarily a political blackmail to first pass the National Minorities Act, to provide a national minority with legal personality, a territorial structure and a special way of financing, and there was practically an SDP that had been slightly actively restrained until then, I don't think of you, Mr. Minister, and so did HDZ because it was supposed to be held in power. On the other hand, if it hadn't just been for MP Vinkovic who then said it was a new SAO Krajina and that Croatia wouldn't have had Croatia if it hadn't been for the constitutional changes of '74. And thanks to the normal Homeland War and the huge victims, it would go away because it would really be about the new architecture of the state. Now, on the other hand, I would like you as a minister, and it's not so much about this law, but it's about the work of this Parliament, which means this text of the Rules of Procedure, which is not published in the National Journal, is therefore invalid. Do we have a Constitution, whether it is that of Shakespeare's corrected Constitution or the Constitution which was practically approved by the Constitutional Court and which was eventually corrected as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So, if we weren't playing democracy, here I would suggest that, with a set of these laws, perhaps as one of the next things that can trigger democracy in Croatia, we consider a two-home Parliament. Not in the way that the County House worked, but in a way that the number of MPs in this House decreased, that we have another home that will be able to veto sometimes the crazy decisions of the majority in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18576	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18577	Dear Representative Vinkovic, at the time of the constitutional changes and amendments to the Constitutional Law, we were in the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18578	I was independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18579	You're not. You've been acting independent all along, but you weren't independent. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18580	My colleague Vinkovic, kindly please don't throw him off the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18581	So, if by law we're going to complain the most about it by the MP, then Vesna Pusic, if we're going to talk about the facts. I believe it was a good step of HDZ that was small and offside, say so, but it was in the right direction and that's why we were there to make it right a little bit, and I'm glad they agreed to it then and we got a good constitutional law without these surpluses that were necessary. The only thing after that in the Law of Elections repeated that departure to offside, the Constitutional Court returned them. It's, that's what I'm holding that was good, so it was a pleasant surprise for me by the then ruling coalition. As for these other matters, the Constitution, the two-home Parliament, etc. at another time when there is more political will. Let's solve this problem that we have to be, have a regulated list of voters, and then we'll talk very easily about a significant change in the political system of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18582	Second replica, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, when you've already used some of this time of yours to answer, I've been trying to sum up my remarks, and you're just asking me to read them to you one by one. So I was talking about the fact that you're introducing new institutes into a law where if the register of voters is termologically and distinct from the list, I highly doubt that records and lists differ enough that there should be two separate institutes. The fact that there is a record in the Law on permanent residence or in the Law on residence does not mean that you should use it in this way and lead it into further confusion, because in one law, you should use it in terms of the records, twice in terms of the list. In fact, you are even making a greater distinction, and in particular you are giving stronger rights to citizens of EU Member States who have enough residence in Croatia, not a permanent place to be able to exercise their right, and you are asking Croats to have a permanent residence. That's what I'm talking about when I'm talking about equating termology in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18584	And to this reply by the minister, no. All right, then we'll hear three lines, the respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18585	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you've been six times, I've counted exactly in your previous presentation, I've said, it's listed in the voters' register. If one is registered in the register of voters or in the register of those farmers, we have a register, and the word register itself, and the termology, and then register, so I guess it's the office in which the registration is registered. Well, there are some losers or Hansel Kichamanovics. That's why I think we have our words instead of the register, our Croatians when I say, and that's both the register and the voter's queen, however you like. No, and you're speaking yourself is recorded in the register, so if it is entered, then it is entered in the register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18586	4 replicas esteemed Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18587	Thank you very much. I agree with you, Mr. Minister, in the part where you said that the model voted in this House by all relevant political parties, and the left and right, because in the end, the amendments to the Constitutional Law were voted by far more than the 2/3 that were needed, that this model was good. I would go further, I would say that it was a good and way of calculating, you will see Mr. Minister, I believe already in your mandate that you yourself will introduce a premium system, some kind of premium system, and then we will discuss whether or not these premium systems really discuss whether these premium systems are constitutional or unconstitutional. Nowhere in the Constitution says they don't belong within the Constitution. What was actually embarrassing was that after about, 130 MPs, if I remember this Parliament well, had voted such a model, that the Constitutional Court had abolished it by dealing with politics, why? Because he canceled four months before the election when he shouldn't have. And now we can say that he was in politics or that the parties were talking, the other was voting, and the third was convincing the Constitutional Court. I believe that the future will say that all these three theories were actually founded because the parts of the meeting were negotiated with both of them with the Constitutional Court. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for saying that the model we voted on at the time was good, which of course was not in line with what the Constitutional Court said, but our opinion of the Constitutional Court is not the most, most commendable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18588	Thank you very much. We are continuing to discuss the clubs now, so I invite my esteemed colleague, Josip Salapic, to present the positions of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18589	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. To enter the decisions of the Constitutional Court and to return to the past on the ways and circumstances that followed constitutional changes in 2010, today 2012 may be excessive. You should look to the future, you should look to the time ahead. At the HDSSB club, we believe that this law is before us anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18590	Just a minute. My colleague Furio Radin, I kindly ask you not to throw yourself out of the bench and do not disturb the speaker. Is that okay? Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18591	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This law that is before us the proposal of the Law on the Registration of Voters is by itself a technical intention to solve a crucial problem, and that is the problem of correcting the list of voters. We can all agree that this is something that is necessary. Not only do we know how many voters the total number is mathematically, but to know who can really vote in the Republic at all levels of the elections and who can contribute to a better and better quality life in Croatia. Isb9ors serve not only for the sake of elections but serve for the election of people who will represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia at certain levels either in municipalities, cities, counties, or in the Croatian Parliament, or tomorrow on the EU parliament. This will certainly contribute to justice within society as well as to increasing the level of democratisation and democracy in the elections at all levels, regardless of what the elections are. What has been clear so far is that it is not possible that there are more registered voters than most residents living in a particular area in the Republic of Croatia. The research has shown that the largest deviation in that part of the Adriatic Croatia is in the counties of Sibenik, Kninska, Zadar in that area and we have heard the arguments why it is so. What we believe in the club is that not only this law but that the Law on residence or the term we used today will solve this problem and this Law on the Register of Voters, will have to continue with the law on local administration and self-government and on how to elect representatives of units of local administration and self-government. Without it, this law itself has a good intention and we in the HDSB club have a good intention of supporting this law in our first reading, but we believe that it is necessary to arrange those institutes which have proved to be questionable in terms of constitutional law, we have mentioned Article 45 of Article 16 whether this active registration of voters so before the elections is re-registration in the Constitution or not. It is clear that this active registration wants to determine the true state of the voters because there has been a change in the voter list whether someone died or not, whether there has been a change in the address, it is clear, but we need to make sure that we have this intention and whether you have limited someone's constitutionally right intention to do so in a conflict with the Constitution or not. We can say that it will be the easiest way to solve the list of voters of the Republic of Croatia who have which they will have under the new law when we bring it to a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia. It's going to be the least of the problems. There are government administration offices in this bill give greater authority to state administration offices to address this problem, and already, according to the 2007 law, there have been certain derogations that were not good and this law should fix it. So there won't be so many problems anymore we think there will be problems in this second category, and these are voters who don't have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia and who will have to confirm or not confirm their right to vote in this way. Whether it's in collegiate with the Constitution or not, we shouldn't limit anyone's right to vote no matter what the level of the election is. After Croatia's entry into the EU, allow citizens of EU member states to vote in the EU elections for parliament or at the level of units of local administration and self-government, a question likely to be further modified on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU. This was our obligation in the negotiation and adoption of that European law package in this provision. There's nothing to object to. What this law foresees and does to persons with disabilities about persons who are located in social institutions that they will be able to exercise their right to voter rights that they have so far been unable to achieve. It's also a good suggestion, he should be in the second reading also slightly modified and there's nothing to object to. What is most important, the most important issue, none of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the right to vote should be denied their right to vote at any level of the elections, so that none of the draft laws, nor should this law be colluded primarily with the Croatian Constitution and with the fundamental rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, achieve the right vote at all levels of the elections. Are we going to have to change the Croatian Constitution what I said at the beginning our system of electoral units the city of Zagreb is divided into 5 electoral units and in this way we have contributed to the fact that certain voter lists do not agree, that in some units it appears 200, 300 and up to a thousand voters more in the very city of Zagreb 317 thousand, that is something that we MPs in the Croatian Parliament need to discuss in this meeting because this way of counting card units leads to this problem that in certain areas indeed increases the fictitious number of voters compared to the number of inhabitants. And that's what we need to intervene. In the second reading, therefore, all these misunderstandings that we have discussed today that I do not repeat them all, I believe that the bill should be introduced and that I am the essence and the intention of the law should be supported but certainly with compliance with other regulations in order not to come into collage to allow anyone in the Republic of Croatia to vote. So we would be in order for this law to go into another reading, and in the second reading we will see whether all these dilemmas that we have said in the debates are accepted or not, and then as a club then we will declare ourselves in the second reading of the final proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18592	Thank you, too. We have two replicas registered to this exhibit. First respected representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18593	Thank you very much. Look, in a Parliament where we keep going back and forth, and we keep saying what happened in '91, '95, '45, it's weird for Mr. Salapic to tell me that I can't turn around and talk about what happened in 2011, so last year. You were then the vice president of the HDZ Club, so you weren't just a member of the HDZ Club who voted for what your party is talking about now, what it's talking about against than convincing them to vote like this as the vice president of the HDZ Club. Mr. Vinkovic also belonged to other parties, so he spoke differently as he belonged to these other clubs and other parties. I know, you haven't changed, the situation has changed, but I just want to say one thing. Please don't object to what I'm saying about the things that happened last year, and these things were actually a disgrace to the Constitutional Court, to the country and to the insult of this Parliament, who had been exposed to 130 and some votes by a law which then the Constitutional Court in a political way at a time when he shouldn't have, means in a political way and by a political method he abolished. I'm sorry, Mr. Salapic, but with all due respect and sympathy, I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18594	We will hear the reply to the replica of the respected Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18595	Thank you very much, Mr. Radin and Mr. Vice President. I understand your intentions, and you need to understand mine. In 2010, I was a member of the Committee on the Constitution, and here we had heated discussions about the change of the Constitution because of the need for Croatia to join the European Union. I was one of those who suggested a different solution when it came to... MPs who would vote in the diaspora but at the debates, at numerous meetings that we had it was not so. At the beginning of my speech here I did not protect the Constitutional Court but I said that it was the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that it should not be looked at in the past but at the future. I did not intend to offend or insult your position with which you did not agree even when you say today that I was on what duty I was on. No, I was then a member of the Committee on the Constitution, and after the 2011 elections, I acted on other duties, and today I did not change myself or my position but I was talking about the law which is the topic of the agenda today, the way that we want to improve something that we must and that we should finally know in the register of voters how many voters have the right to vote in the Republic of Croatia, whether those who are here or outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia but when I referred to the Constitutional Court as the most judicial body in the Republic of Croatia and I said that I should look into the future and not in the past, and that was the only intention of my step, nothing else, without insulting your position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18596	Second replica, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18597	Dear counterpart Salapić, I would agree with everything you said, and Vinkovic Zoran has been saying 20 years, or since the '90s, here is 22 years practically the same and has not changed his mind as some have changed it. He was never a member of the party, he was a member of the SDP for 20 years, we split up, although he may not be as big friends, but here are the people who have been with me for 20 years, so you saw them spinning their heads that Vinkovic wasn't saying something new now because he was. In addition, the HDSSB also has a part of the Social Democracy to say so within itself, but what is worrying, so I once mentioned the Supreme Court's decision and received a warning from the President of the Parliament because I was meddling in that part of the government, meddling in court. Now I don't see why you're after these statements about the constitutional court that they're political parties, so I'm not surprised. Now here's a colleague who said that we were stealing ballot boxes, ballots, that now both SDP and HDZ under the counter probably covered with that tablecloth in what restaurant and practically aligned constitutional law with judges of the constitutional court. That's what I mean scandalous. It would have been even more scandalous for my colleague, Radin, if it had passed and your idea when the Constitutional Law on National Minorities was passed...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18598	Excuse me, colleague Vinkovic, I'm just reminding you to replicate your colleagues Salapic, not your colleagues Radina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18599	Then I'm Salapian. So that was past what was also required then, only slightly altered but still it was legal personality, territorial structure and a special way of financing. Because some in the SDP showed three fingers, this is how I show three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18600	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss clubs, so I ask my colleague, Nedhad Hodzic, to present the views of the National Minorities Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18601	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives' Club will support this bill. We understand this proposal of the law on the register of voters as a first step to finally introduce order into this important matter which directly affects the results of the elections of all who are being held in the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, we are also giving full support to the ministry to bring this job to an end through two readings, if possible by consensus in this House and to remove the voter list as a very difficult political issue so far. The register of voters in the future must be at any moment a responsible document which will not be doubted and whose accuracy and legality will be trusted by all Croatian citizens regardless of political belief and regardless of which political option is currently in power. I believe that after the second reading and adoption of the final version of the bill on the register of voters in this House, we will get such a document. What I want to point out to this occasion is the problem of the Bosniak national minority that still has the problem of the old national policy, the Muslim definition. Although a great deal of efforts has been made over the past period by a large number of Bosniaks and institutions to which we belong and good results have been obtained, I would like to point out that there is still a huge disproportionate number of Bosniaks in the 2001 census and the number of Bosniaks in the voters' lists. This disproportionateness will be even higher when by the end of the year we get results and the national structure of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia according to the 2011 census and we expect that the number of Bosniaks in the Republic of Croatia will be significantly higher than 20 000 as we were on the 2001 census. The list of voters, colleagues and colleagues directly affects the rights of members of national minorities governed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia. The list of voters and its national structure, i.e. expressed nationality, directly affects whether Bosniaks or any other national minority will have in the units of the local self-government of the National Minority Council, or whether they will have a representative or not. Likewise, only those who have been declared as Bosniaks or members of another nation in the list of voters may vote in the 12th election unit for minority candidate, regardless of what they have said in the list of voters, either as Bosniaks or as members of another nation. For Bosniaks, it still means the present problem of the old national guidelines, and this brings us into an unequal position with regard to members of other national minorities who do not have the problem. To change this situation, the procedure is known, Bosniaks must personally go to their home offices and request that the nationality of Bosniak be entered in the list of voters. I also use this opportunity to appeal to all Bosniaks who feel part of the diaspora of our country of origin, who so far as Bosniaks are not listed as voters to go to their home offices and ask for the registration of Bosniak nationality in the list of voters regardless of whether they are now being held as Muslims or as Croats of Islamic religion or otherwise. So all those who feel the Bosniaks appeal is addressed to them. Also, I ask Mr. Minister that in the offices of the state administration for this problem, the Bosniak national minority has an understanding and that this change of national provision is done as quickly and as easily as possible. Finally, I want to remind you that our minister at the time was a relatively young man, perhaps he doesn't remember that, the Bosniak national minority is one of those two who were once declared national minorities of plant origin. So we were defined then as Muslims as the flowers of the Croatian people. I think that all members of the national minorities of plant origin, i.e. that we are the flowers of Croatian society, not the peoples, but Croatian societies and states, and we pray that in this way we are treated. A few days ago, we had a parliamentary delegation from China and we came to that meeting to say that in China, members of national minorities account for 8% of the population and that they have representation in Parliament 12%. In Croatia, the situation is next, we will see the census, but it could be unfavourable that members of national minorities are about 10%, and in the current Parliament we are represented with 5% practically. According to that kind of Chinese model, we should be 15% paroled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18602	Thank you, too. Minister Arsen Bauk called again for his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18603	Thank you. So, as far as the constitutional law provides for representation, I must admit that all my mathematical and academic knowledge does not allow me to calculate exactly what it says in the Constitutional Law. So it says there's a basic census and then it's going to be corrected on the basis of the voters' list. That's what it says. That's very vague otherwise. Thus, this entered the Constitutional Law two thousand and some because at that time a return to the war-deterred areas began, and then the result of the 2001 census was a little improved by the return of 2004, 2005, 2006, and so on. And now we've reached the 2011 census. I don't think he should be fixed anymore. I therefore believe that the interpretation of this provision should be that the 2011 census is the basis for local elections and all other elections in 2012. Because we don't have a list of voters to compare that census to. And I believe that the next three election cycles for local self-government should remain that way and that the next correction should be made on the basis of a new census. Because otherwise it could happen that for some minorities, we get minus, there's below zero by that because if there's 3% in the population, and then the voters' list goes down by 4%, then it's minus 1. So, it'd be like there's no one here. Therefore, I am in favour of the 2011 census, which will be published in the 12th month, being the basis for all calculations over the next 10 years, politically. And as for the borders of the electoral units and as regards the share of the nationalities where that is so permitted, where others are allowed. So, that's my position that I've made several times in conversations with the Minority Club, and that's what the bill's proposals are going on in the first-reading procedure. As for the share of Bosniaks in the total population according to the Constitutional Law, it is determined by the basis of the census. So the constitutional law when determining 2 groups of national minorities spoke to those who are over 1.5 and those who are below 1.5%. So if the Bosniak population is over 1.5%, that's about 60 grand, then they'll be entitled 1 to 3 MPs, and if they don't, then they'll be entitled to what they have right now. And as regards the share within individual units of local self-government in representative bodies and executive bodies where the law is exercised, it will also be regulated by law, because the rights of national minorities are therefore regulated by the Constitutional Law, both by the Law and by the Constitution, and then the Statute of certain units of local self-government is a regulation of still lower order. And as for the persons listed in the voter's list, so who wants to be listed as Bosniak, Bosniak or any other nationality, the basis of Article 15 of the law can go to the competent authority and give its statement and will be registered as it is, therefore, wanted to be entered. And another sentence, as far as active registration is concerned. So, I'm going to simulate the situation on election day in some diplomatic-consular representation. Two citizens, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, one is actively registered and the other is not. The one who actively registered will go to the election board, get a ballot and vote. The one who has not been actively registered will go to the official who will be actively registered, the official will check whether he is in the voters' register, if he is registered and will go to the next, so the voter's board will receive a ballot and vote. No one is deprived of their right to vote. What we get is that we'll finally have a realistic number of voters in the diaspora, and we won't take away anyone's voting rights. I therefore hold that this provision from the Constitutional Point is not questionable. As far as the functional aspect is concerned, how questionable is this, so that 400 thousand voters, or 280 thousand in Bosnia and Herzegovina, can vote in 5 seats? He can't, we know that, and we knew that when we were making constitutional changes. And the next thing is, so this extra instruments that I was talking about are about what Mr. Schemper said from the club of representatives of HSU. So, the request of the Croatian World Congress is a letter vote of the diaspora. Conditions for supplemental, there are two conditions. One is that it is prescribed in the Constitution and the other to introduce an active registration to send people voting material to addresses. If this is not acceptable to all, because without their support, this constitutional provision cannot be changed, there will be no active registration in the second reading, and so we have solved this problem. So I believe we're on the verge of a good solution and I thank all the club representatives. And the very fact that it's come out, that all the club MPs have come forward shows how important this matter is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18604	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate now. The first registered member of parliament, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, with your fellow ministers. Well, here's the thing: First of all, I think we should welcome the Minister's announcement that this law goes in two readings. So, since it's just like he pointed out the important thing that they said about here and all the club representatives. I believe that this is one example of good practice, to see in 2 readings this law that is extremely important for Croatia, above all for the political life of Croatia and to try it all together, so members of all the political parties sitting in the Croatian Parliament make it as good as possible. Allow me a few words before I draw attention to a particular question that is touched by the Law on residence, which passed the reading process, to refer in general to the national lists. In fact, state lists including, of course, a list of voters enjoys a very bad reputation, unfortunately that's how it is. And why is that? Well, from a simple fact that they're unsupervised. Here are the ministers and colleagues who debated in front of the clubs who said several times that the absurd situation is that we have more voters than residents. Which, therefore, since the Constitution guarantees the right to vote on any individual who has the nationality of the Republic of Croatia whether he lives in Croatia or not, therefore, that is not the problem. In local elections, however, it represents. And what exactly is the result, how could that possibly happen? So it's a matter of residence, according to the current law. So, once you signed up to have a residence, let's say in Osijek no one could have checked you out personally, although you in Osijek perhaps 50 years ago left it, you went abroad or moved to another city now is irrelevant, so within the Republic, no one could have checked you out of that residence. The police could have made a note based on the statements of those who own the property you allegedly have a residence in, that you're no longer there, but you've been erased by no one. And on this basis, of course, lists of voters were created, i.e. some people appeared on lists of voters who have not actually been in contact with their local communities for a very long time. So, all citizens as we have established here according to the Constitution have the right to vote, but in my opinion, the key question is where? So citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia certainly need to be able to consume their rights and I am glad that this law also provides for solutions to this. They will, however, be consumed in the second constituency, i.e. in the electoral unit for voters outside the Republic of Croatia, not for example in 1st, or 4th, or 6th constituency, where they may have had a residence by now. I think it's important to mention, which I've mentioned many times, but I'm going to mention again that it's worth saying hello to, I would conditionally call them the e-projects this government stands for. Therefore, the E-Croatian project, E-Government, E-Matica and now the final E-list of voters, i.e. the list of voters in electronic form. Just networking the state administration, and so to say modernising these lists will contribute to the urgency of the same, and the ultimate goal is of course to restore citizens' trust in state lists, records and so forth. I think the good measure that this law provides for and updates the voters' list by giving and informing voters about the possibility of insight into the same or that you will be able to verify how you are recorded in the electoral list, with which the residence or after the second reading I believe the law with a permanent residence and where you will be able to consummate your voting rights accordingly. I would still like to warn you of one problem, and this is a possible problem, therefore, which should certainly be kept in mind, although there are some solutions already in these legal proposals that I mentioned, which is the problem of students related to students abroad. So we have a lot of cases now that young people are staying outside Croatia for education but I believe that this will increase as Croatia joins the EU. So this problem is because it is regulated by two laws on this which we are currently discussing and the Law on residence. The law on the register of voters, therefore, which we are discussing that this was overlooked, so let me say, to prevent the second paragraph of Article 55, which reads "The vote list also includes voters with a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia who are temporarily staying abroad or who find themselves there on the day of the elections or the national referendum, and their right to vote abroad." So we can talk about that students, or students who are educated abroad, are currently found abroad on election day. Also in the law that passed the first reading whether this solution will exist in the second reading we do not know, but suppose it will, since there was no objection to it, the Law on residence states in Article 12. "Extremely from paragraph 1 of this Article, the competent authority will not make a decision to delete entries in the collection of data on permanent and temporary residence and to change the address of dwellings for persons who have registered residence in accordance with the rules applicable until the entry into force of this law if, among other things, they are on temporary work or abroad education." I therefore believe that these solutions are in principle not disputed that the good ones, however, should pay particular attention to our citizens who are outside Croatia not permanently but still not for a shorter period since in theory you could complete your entire education outside Croatia but want to return to Croatia or citizens are the Republic of Croatia, should allow them to vote or at some point return to Croatia and have a permanent residence or residence here. Here's what I wanted to say. I would also like to express my hope that after two readings of this law, we will finally exceed the level where the list of voters is a political topic, so that nothing will be disputed anymore, that we will finally and consensually be able to make some decision as we wish to vote in the Republic of Croatia and who has the right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18606	Thank you, too. I now give the word to my esteemed representative, Zlatko Komadini.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18607	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will start with what I did not want to say, and that is because here are 5 hours as neatly as other colleagues and colleagues who are present here listen to these discussions and I would like to say that the debate so far and the debate on other laws has shown that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should be re-changed. With all due respect, it is not normal that after 5 hours of discussion we have only now managed to hear the introduction of the promoters and clubs of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. And for what? It's because of the replicas, isn't it? So I think these replicas actually if someone has to say then let them report for the discussion after the leaders and after the clubs. And the replica should be the institute for something else because here you can answer the line for every word you've heard spoken by anyone literally every word. I have to admit, I'm surprised we haven't heard the Peleski Bridge and Plomin 3, that's real to me, but we've got time maybe we can hear. But if I didn't break the Rules of Procedure to get back on today's subject, it's this law that we've had the opportunity to hear, which is that the debate so far has shown that we know what we don't but we don't know what we want and how we want to do it, here's what I'd say because we all agree that we won't have an unsettled voter list, but when we get on the subject of how we do it, then it's raining on the accusations of all kinds, and the main one for me and for which this is going to fall, and I would recommend that you don't go to another reading, and that's the unconstitution that everybody's already counting especially on the HDZ club and the DIP, the Constitution committee, etc. The Croatian Parliament, because in fact almost then we better not touch anything because I don't know what's wrong with this list of voters at all. There's definitely nothing in it that's missing, and there's too much of it. But I don't know what we're surprised about then when elections we have a little bit of going out as we think we have or we're even surprised that we have that way to tell the voters how many people. Well, it's perfectly normal for us to even have more voters than some people in some cities and municipalities, it's perfectly normal. First of all, not all who are enrolled in the census are citizens or do not live in the Republic of Croatia. Well, you miss God living in BiH living in a diaspora, and it's normal for them to say more or equally to the number of residents living in the Republic of Croatia. You yourself heard in the debate that we are one of the countries that has the most diaspora or evicted Croatia with that in order to pray that we use this same terminology little because... the public is in the right state to say so or the right meaning, which is that BiH is not a diaspora but a living Croatian people as a constituent people and no one has moved out of Croatian fashion is to go to live in BiH but the vast majority is not. They live there as do Croats other citizens of the Republic of Croatia and national minorities here in Croatia. Therefore, the Constitution has given the category of citizenship 18 years and that's about what we have now. However, I personally agree with my colleague Bauk's proposal to try to edit this in the way proposed in this law to remove the question of possible legitimacy when the percentage of exits is below 50%, or when one is chosen as well with some numbers, and then the question is actually what and how. In fact, I have at least realized that this law is trying to regulate that from a possible number of terminology and the minister himself has said that the names will still be harmonised, which will be called the list, which the register, which register, to try to actually define from choice to choice the part that is actually interested in elections, which will actually be the electoral body, and it does not have to be in the finality of all of our citizens and all who are 18 years old. I... realized possible voters and real voters, so to speak, with it then trying to introduce it with this term of active registration and in fact that this register is then done or done when that line is stopped, the moment certain elections are held, because the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, at least so far and the political parties have been, to arrange these electoral lists. This would still achieve two things if it were to go on this trail, such as this bill, which is to increase the percentage of actually going to the elections, it would thus increase, and it would also reduce the potential of abuses that it may be or may be, which is with those numbers of certain voters at the same address or bus that we have heard about, etc. Although I personally think that relatively little abuse has been done in the elections, especially as they have moved away in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps in some ancient times it would be something different. I also welcome the decision, i.e. the decision of this law on people with taken-off business capacity to give them, in certain categories of them the right to vote... judicial decisions for the simple reason why we can't and the Priors say they don't know who they want to represent. They may not have the ability to decide for themselves or for others, so they are either taken away or taken care of themselves, but they may know who would like to take care of them. I want to say that it is one standard in the countries of the European Union, not all of which, of course, we have heard, but in some, but if that is the defence attorney's remarks, if these are objections and from the Court of Human Rights, I think it is logical that this institute be installed. It wouldn't hurt anyone. I also want the diaspora to be interested in the vote and that the Croats in BiH are interested in the vote. I'm not sure that interest has been solved with these constitutional decisions of three MPs. When he was there and I agree with my colleague Bauk, it was then my thinking, about that non-fixed quota because with all due respect if more of them come out, they have the right to choose them more. It's kind of my logic, now it's a compromise made by three. I have experienced it to tell you honestly as the neutralisation of Serbian votes, here's to tell you honestly because... it turns out that three votes are given to the Serb minority, and to the Croatian diaspora of three MPs. It's about the impression that it's down to it, but good. This can be solved eventually, I think it's also being considered at the Ministry by a letter vote, which is more because now it has no impact on the number, which means more to allow everyone who wants to vote because I can't choose more than three, but I can choose which ones are the three. Also, as far as national minorities are concerned, I think it's a good solution to end this segregation that has been so far, that you have to declare I'm taking this ballot or I'm not taking that ballot. The only thing I don't know is that I'd ask the minister to answer and then define who actually voted. I don't mean in terms, of course it's a secret right to vote, but if he takes a ballot and fills it only for the minority and inserts it from where it is known, and how much I know about minorities should only be voted by minority members. I mean, in that case, we could also vote members of the majority people on the minority list, put in a ballot, and I don't see who would know then. At least I don't see what they'd do but they could. In this way, there is no record that he used the electoral right to vote for the national minority. There's so much on my side. I will personally support this law, but I personally don't think it will pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18608	We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. Here's by considering this Law on Election Register, and also at Mr. Komadina's opening statement, I don't know what to say. I would agree perhaps entirely with everything he has said, and I will say a few more things that bother me and which actually push Croatians outside of Croatia, or Croats in emigration, but by proposing this law falls into the eyes of the difference between the voters' list and the voters' register, regularity in the list of voters. He has serious problems with the constitutionality we heard, and the parent board has expressed doubts about this law. About Croats outside Croatia at the border of the Republic of Croatia we heard today and on several occasions about it, it was some mantra that they strongly influenced the election results in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the local elections, and I assure you in the last elections, and you will see in these next elections that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia do not have much influence with the Republic of Croatia. Buses, i.e. the arrival of Croatian citizens from Serbia, particularly in Sisak-Moslavina County, Zadar hinterland, Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja, are far more affected. It's obvious and you'll see it in this election. What I was talking about today in the replica, which is the active registration of voters, and I won't repeat myself, that's what Mr. Ministers said to me in part, and I agree that this is possible to avoid if you want to, or as a proposer. But I think it's discrimination because why the active registration of voters just outside the Republic of Croatia, why not the Republic of Croatia? It is obvious that today, for example, because of these proposed laws, the debates of the Law on residence, residence and identity card, which you spoke about today, may have been the most difficult issue in Croatia. As for Croats in emigration, it is good to remember that they have actually given one of their great pains and contributions to the Homeland War by collecting various aids, and I am sure they will also make an economic contribution in the future. What bothers me is that we are doing everything possible to suppress Croats outside Croatia from the political and social life of the Republic of Croatia. Because how else do you understand that we spend so much energy on how to make these people's lives even worse, I'm saying not repeating everything you said you needed that active computer registration, and knowing it's also so that a lot of them are computerly illiterate. Is it really not enough that they had to seek their bread outside the Republic of Croatia and many perhaps not by their own will? What is more important about this law, and I will remind you that the National Election Commission has also participated in the task force, which actually raises the question of what is happening in the situation where the person who is listed in the voters' register has expired his identity card and does this mean that this person will not automatically be in the voters' list unless he has temporarily filed a request for a new identity card? I also point out that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia held in its practice that the fact that a person who has the right to vote and de facto is listed in the list of voters but does not have a valid ID card does not mean that this person cannot exercise an active voting right in the elections on behalf of the HDZ Club. If this government had taken this problem seriously, it would have been possible to really unite the debate on the Law on residence, the Law on the Register of Voters, and the identity card. That would make us much more credible. This leaves the bitter taste that we will also have serious problems in these next local elections and we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18610	The debate will now include the esteemed representative Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18611	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers with assistants and associates. So, at the beginning of my debate, I must stress that I support the adoption of this law in view of how the local elections are approaching, but also the elections for the European Parliament, given the criticisms of the European Commission as well as the multi-annual media and day-political speculations about the fact that there are unsettled electoral lists in Croatia and that they are being misused. So, we heard from the debate that somewhere in Croatia there are about 4.3 million inhabitants, and that there are some 4.1 million of them on the list. Although there would be some assumption that the minors or the person with the taken-off business capacity are somewhere around 900 thousand. Which is pretty illogical data. And subsequently, the maximum number of voters in the Republic of Croatia should be around 3.6 to 3.8 million. I will give a practical example, namely from the total number of counties that exist in the Republic of Croatia 7 in them, it seems to me that in Virovitski, Požega, Karlovac, Lička, Zadar and Sibenik County we have one illogicality that the number of voters actually exceeds the population. Official data suggests that there are about 400,000 eligible voters in the diaspora, but only mathematical simulations and estimates suggest that there are indeed no more than 200 thousand because the election results indicate that turnout is somewhere between 90 and 100 thousand in total. Speaking of diaspora. According to comparative data from one and other elections in the Republic of Croatia, only 200 thousand younger people of 18 years live, which, according to my personal and deep conviction, is far from true because when you look at the 2001 census, a person under the age of 19 is registered over a million. So this is one of the illogicalities to be warned about, and when you add these data together, you actually come up with absurd information that there are over 5 million people in Croatia, which is not true. This is ultimately the last census and showed, at least these preliminary results. And I can say from my own experience specifically for the city of Vinkovce, which has about 36,000 inhabitants, of which 32.5 thousand are voters. So it's illogical that there are only 2,2.5 thousand people under the age of 18 in one such area. That's one absurd. Last year's census is another proof that the Republic of Croatia has to do something urgently with voter lists and voters' lists primarily because of warnings sent by the European Commission that the voter lists are in ruins and in total chaos, i.e. collapse. If we start from the assumption that there are 4.3 million inhabitants in Croatia of which, according to estimates, there are about 1 million minors who do not have the right to vote, there should be 3.2 million adult voters with the right to vote, not 4.1 million as far as it is so far. Unfortunately, we're coming up with a shocking record of over 900 thousand people's differences. I'm sorry that Mr. Mlakar's colleagues are not in the assembly right now because he, as a former minister, received criticism from both GONG and other NGOs, where such a situation is in fact, and attributed such a difference to the new method the statisticians were making a list of. It is strange that in these 7 or 8 Croatian counties there are some oscillations and statistical anomalies, while in other counties statistical methods show the correct state. So, I personally believe that Mr. Mlakar is one of the most responsible persons in the whole story along with former Secretary of State Antun Paleric, who also received warnings from NGOs, but unfortunately nothing was done about it. After all, I will also quote GONG legal adviser Vanju Škorić who said, "That the difference from more than 9,000 voters simply cannot be explained." According to some information from the State Election Commission, they were very angry with the minister of administration, a colleague of Mlakar, because if they hadn't removed their finger to fix the list, even though they were warned all year round, this is the 2009 election data. So these are recorded media inscriptions that we simply need to talk about. The order in the voter lists should be introduced in order to avoid their irregularity, because in the area of some municipalities and cities as we have heard there are 40% more registered voters than the residents, which is actually legal and demographic absurd. The European Commission is objecting to the voter lists because people are registered on the basis of their residence, and therefore it is necessary for the list of voters and residence records to be in some kind of harmony. The prerequisite for this is, of course, the adoption of a new Law on residence where, in particular, Article 14 of the bill states: "That the ministry is responsible for internal affairs, the competent authority that manages the list of voters will, without delay, provide data on all changes in the collection of data on permanent residence for persons who have completed 18 years of life." I personally believe that this law will introduce order in the unsettled voter lists, especially in the diaspora, but not as counterpart Ante pointed out that people from the diaspora are making life difficult, but simply to clean up from this Corps people who are dead, who have passed away but are still on the ballots. The important newspaper in relation to the existing law is this institution of active registration, which I won't talk about much, since colleagues before me in their discussions highlighted that part. But at the end of the debate, I think it should be stressed that the need to pass this law and its purpose is that they are more than clear. In fact, long-standing problems with voter lists and side effects that cause various day-to-day political speculation, public disdain and media sensationalism, and EU criticisms are in fact the need to introduce order into the voter lists. By introducing order into the SDP polling lists and coalition partners support the promise they made to Croatian citizens that they will try to resolve the discrepancy that has existed in the polling lists for more than 20 years. Popi's own voters are one of the things that will evaluate the success of this government and assess whether this state is arranged and whether there are state mechanisms to introduce order or not. This whole project should be resolved until next parliamentary elections, not as some think until the next local elections, because it is actually too short a period to do anything. Finally, the right to vote is also a sensitive subject by which it is very thoughtful and very sensitive for the reasons that previous discussions have also pointed out. And finally, let me, we have so much time to ask one question that raises one illogicalness in me, which concerns certain provisions of the law, or I think there are two articles in college. Therefore, as referred to in Article 47(1), which is with persons who, for some reason, are listed in Article 17 which states in paragraph 1: "The register of voters shall be deleted from persons who have lost their right to vote by death or termination of Croatian citizenship, and persons who have been deprived of voting rights by means of a judicial decision." Therefore, with persons mentioned for some reason in the draft law in Article 17(1) and losing voting rights in the period from the voter register to the conduct of elections or referendums. I think they're located in an air-breathed space and that it should either be arranged more closely or more clearly defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18612	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate, and the Honorable representative of Peja Grbin is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18613	Thank you. Here, I'm going to relate a little bit to the debate of fellow Romans, and I'm going to start with one thought that most people agree with, and that's that, that this is about one good law, one good proposal that puts order in one basic line where there's been a mess to this day. I will begin my discussion with the question of the active registration of voters who are obviously with most colleagues, and I have also witnessed this on the Committee on the Constitution and on the Committee on Legislatives. Contrary to certain views, the active registration of voters is not anti-constitutional, although the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 45, states: "That the law regulates the way it will be regulated, the right to vote." In this particular case, the legislator, i.e. the proposer, has provided for a way of voting law, how electoral lists will be edited in the area where the institution of the Republic of Croatia does not exist. In particular, how will it be arranged for those citizens living in the United States, Great Britain, not only to talk about the BIH, where diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia do not keep records of the births and deaths, where such records cannot be obtained from the body of the regular authority. So I had a situation where someone enrolled in Croatian citizenship, for example, in 1992, and since then, we have no record of this person. Can we just delete it and say he's not a Croatian citizen, he doesn't exist, he doesn't exist? We can't, and of course we have to take him somewhere registered. But just to prevent certain manipulations, it is proposed that such a person, not to be discriminated against, that such a person must be registered previously, that if he wants to exercise his constitutional right and vote, he must make a advance, and that is, in the proposal for this law, an active registration. However, I would suggest here that we consider two options, and one is to extend the deadlines for active registration if possible in order to bring the period for active registration as close as possible to the date of the election itself, and the other option is to maximumly liberalise the process of active registration of voters. In this context, it does not appear anywhere in this context that an active registration must be carried out in person, but I would suggest that the article explicitly states that it does not have to be implemented personally that it can be implemented by written means or electronically and then that, through the data processing system, the Ministry shall write out forms and prescribes a way in which anyone, if he wishes to exercise his constitutional right and to vote on the active registration, will be able to carry out from his home in the easiest way for him. If we add this, I think we will remove absolutely every, absolutely any doubt as to whether the active registration is unconstitutional and we will enable absolutely every citizen of the Republic of Croatia no matter where he lives to participate in the elections and vote. Furthermore, I do have some minor objections to the text of the law, and I will use this opportunity to highlight them, and they refer to the provision of Articles 31, 37 and 41 of the Law where the terms for the case are used and to the context of the vote. We have already talked about this on the Committee on the Constitution, but I would ask for further consideration of these concepts and for a slightly greater distinction to be made between these two types of voting registrations so that it does not create a confusion, because in all respects I consider the existing provision in particular in Article 31 a little vague. I would further support the initiative here in the law are proposed two alternative solutions of course it is possible when it comes to the bill that goes into the first reading in the final draft of the law we will have to narrow it down to one but I support that proposal that all voters, all voters, regardless of what nationalities water is on one list. Be careful, Croatia does not have some spectacular history when we talk about protecting the rights of national minorities, but today it is changing. But back to the early '90s. Every corner you've been asked for your nationality. We cannot allow voters' lists to be shared according to whether they are Croats, Serbs, Slovenians, Italians or any other nationality. This excerpt must be one, but then each voter must be allowed to exercise certain rights that belong to him somewhere because he is a member of a particular national minority, but the list of voters must be one and must be all there. And in this context, I suggest that this is exactly the kind of form to be included in the final bill. And finally, there was a lot of debate about voting for people who were deprived of their business ability. I consider the personal proposal that the proposal put into the law to be good, because it will enable those who are deprived of their business ability but still understand the developments around them to initiate a procedure that will allow the competent authority to participate in the political life of the Republic of Croatia and to exercise their fundamental human right, which is the right to vote. And I therefore believe that this proposal, which is included in the text of the law, is good. I will, of course, ask the promoter and consider all those remarks, all those proposals that have been received from civil society associations to study the reasons because it seems to me that we still need to discuss the subject a little bit. And lastly, I would take the opportunity to talk about the voters' register to direct two initiatives. The first concerns the vote of a person under 18 in the local elections. Article 45 when the 18-year-old relationship vote envisioned this only for parliament elections for the president, for the state referendum. As far as local elections are concerned, the Constitution has allowed us as legislators to regulate the way we vote in another way. The Republic of Austria has set out to reduce the age limit for voting to 16 years, and excellent results have been obtained. This increases the participation of young people in political life, they are interested even in high school. And I just think that we should consider this proposal and see if it is possible, perhaps not next year, but over a long period, that the age limit for voting in local elections is down to 16 years. And finally, the question of voting through mail. Switzerland, the United Kingdom in certain segments thus definitely increases the number of those participating in the election process. I will not talk about electronic voting now, although in some countries and this way of voting is taken into account that it can always be annulled by the fact that the person who is in question appears on election day at the polling station and the vote that he then gave cancels everything that was given before that electronically. But I think we also need to talk about this form of voting, and we need to take it into account, and all to increase the number of those participating in the electoral process and all to achieve that all of us who represent citizens and we have as much legitimacy as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18614	Thank you. It's MP Zeljko Sabo's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18615	Dear Ministers, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There are a lot of stories, but I'm going to try to encourage the minister in my debate and I'm really sorry that maybe this law didn't go through an emergency procedure because we're all in the field because of the upcoming local elections full of expectations and waiting for this law to be passed as soon as possible. In fact, very often we look through Teletekst or statements when elections are held and the results of turnout in individual places and cities in the Republic of Croatia. I want to stand here in defense of my Vukovars and I have always claimed that although the turnout in Vukovar is the lowest, I want to give the following information. According to the latest census, Vukovar has 28 016 inhabitants, unofficial data, but we got it. A list of voters 32 612, 4600 differences between these two numbers, but if we take that in 28 000 there are babies from one month to 18 years, then we see how different that is, and then we can get into that situation, think about the turnout of the Werewolf in any election. So I absolutely ask that the law goes into second reading as soon as possible, that we try in a certain way to agree with all those remarks that can be incorporated into the law and that it is found in Parliament's procedure as soon as possible so that before the local elections, we have it as a law that will certainly make new quality moves for all the elections ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18616	Thank you very much. It's time to introduce Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there is hardly anything that has not been said so far, and I would like first of all to point out that the adoption of this law must be an instrument for the democratic engagement of the legislative authority, to regulate possible legal gaps, rather than an instrument of political weapons that generates particular interests. We are bound not only by the fact that we need to bring the legislation in line with the principle of transparency with the overall legislation of the European Union but also by the fact that the Constitution immediately states in Article 1 of this article the elements of transparency. This shall be supported by Article 1(2) and (3), as well as Article 3(3). The Constitution on the highest constitutional values. This law must serve precisely to achieve these objectives, by way of a systematic method of interpreting the legal constitutional standards, it is clear how important the legislator has given the measure of this issue since it mentions it already in the first legal provisions of the Constitution. I mentioned legal gaps which are otherwise the cornerstone of the dysfunction of legal norms, and the draft law on the register of voters in Article 4 states that enrolment in the register of voters is a condition for the exercise of voting rights on the day of the election and the referendum. In the legal theory of voting law, however, active and passive voting law is also covered, but Article 3 does not specify exactly which of those rights exclusively or primarily applies to. It should therefore be pointed out whether it is active and passive rights if the basis of the law is to cover both rights. Depending on the other fundamental provisions of the proposal of this law, and in particular Articles 1 and 2, I do not see it clarifying, expanding, or restricting the notion of voting law. I think that could lead to confusion. We see that even the DIP is of the opinion that the proposed Institute of Active Registration has been questioned from the constitutional aspect since certain categories of voters put in a more unfavourable position. Nice to meet you. I just heard you're planning on throwing something out for this active registration. For voters who have permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia, no active registration procedure is prescribed, while for voters who have a permanent residence abroad the same assumption that an active voting right is exercised in individual elections. In this way there is discrimination against a part of the voter which I find unacceptable. It is also interesting to see Article 24 on the verification of the data recorded. The Article 1 of this Article refers to additions and corrections of the data entered on voters which gives voters the right to update, or make oral or written observations to the data entered. This is an extremely important norm, however, already in paragraph 3 of the same article: if the request is found to be established, the entry, supplement or correction of the data in the register of voters will be carried out. It is my suggestion that such a finding be introduced without delay because if it is established that the request is established without delay, registration, supplement or correction will be made. Why am I saying this, because let's say a citizen who, for a certain false information in the voters' register, submits a request for correction a day, two before the deadline for submission is up. the day before the entry into force of the law within 10 days and if it does not take place without delay, this could lead to the abuse of this article and to the question of the constitutional right of citizens of its electoral right. And something else about these alternative solutions, means the solution proposed in alternative 2 of the bill's proposals, according to which all voters make it significantly more difficult to work on election committees in one instance and enables possible manipulation of the election process in individual polling stations and thus results in total, but even more can be the result of an error in the election board's work. In addition, finding results will be significantly difficult and time-consuming, which will significantly undermine citizens' confidence in the electoral process and the results of the elections themselves. And here, since we are all elected here towards constitutional foundations to defend and protect, we advocate and allow the citizens of Croatia to use their rights in legal traffic uninterruptedly, then it is up to us to do so, so these suggestions would make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18618	Thank you, too. The last one in an individual debate will be a respected representative of Dinko Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18619	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, fellow MPs. The proposed law on voters' register aims to introduce order in the voters' list, but at many points it is unscheduled. Most importantly, it further potentiates the difference between voters in the Republic of Croatia and outside Croatia. Therefore, the comments of the National Election Commission should apply that there must be no difference between voters. This proposal of the Law on the register of voters discussed in the first reading will also have problems with constitutionality. There is no impression here that this bill will negatively reflect for Croats outside of Croatia, and especially for those who took the rifles in the first hand and defended our homes and those who helped in the best of times. Unlike Croats outside Croatia, there are voters who are protected under a special regulation who will continue to be able to take buses to the polls and participate actively in creating a political map of Croatia. The draft law states that these amendments to the law will not require additional costs. The question arises, however, is it even possible to create a new register of voters without investing in new IT equipment and hiring new people? It is further questionable whether new information equipment and new people's employment can be developed by the time the local elections are held in 2013? And without these additional material investments, it's an impossible mission. The residence law allows the police to provide information to the competent office on whether some persons have been located at the place of residence for a long time, and to delete their competent office on the basis of a tip from the voters' register. What will happen to complaints from voters who can be thousands and how long will it take to resolve court disputes and is this possible until local elections? All these voters who are deleted have their rights that can be sought in courts because these processes can and can last. What about voters who are temporarily working abroad, and they usually came to vote in Croatia if they will be deleted and if they are willing to drive up to 200 km to the nearest headquarters of diplomatic consular offices where elections will be held. Obviously, this bill of law still has a lot of misunderstandings. I believe it will be settled until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18620	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18621	Therefore, a respected fellow Bosniak has no say that Croats in the diaspora are segregating or making it difficult for them to vote, it is in fact that GONG has warned each parliamentary election that there are about 20% of people in the diaspora, i.e. emigrants or Croats who have actually passed away and that these lists are not arranged. I also use this opportunity to replicate to you, therefore, a very bad residence law has allowed between 150 and 200 thousand people to have a residence registered in the Republic of Croatia, and to really live in BiH or Serbia, to fake themselves to have the right to vote or to use certain social transfers such as parental fees or something like that. So this law is trying to regulate and correct that part. So the replica goes in this direction that there is no speech for voters outside, or outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia to take away that right or to make it difficult for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18622	There's no response to the replica. Does the minister want it to be final? Minister Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's almost five hours of discussion about the Law on Election Registration, thanks to all the clubs, all the MPs on constructive proposals. Those who will all be considered, and most of them will likely be accepted. I would like to finally respond to the representatives in the individual debate that they discussed. So, as far as my colleague Komadina is concerned, I think I once commented on a similar thesis on the neutralisation of Serbian votes with three representatives of the diaspora. So, no, I don't think that's entirely true after all. The more they were in the past, the more they were on one side. Therefore, this type of trade was not present. As for Agent Babic, therefore the parent committee is the Committee on the Constitution. He supported and the chairman of the Constitution Committee spoke affirmably in this individual debate. As for the persons whose ID card expired, and in the introduction, I said that if they apply for an ID card they would be on the list of voters, they would come to the polling post and vote. If they fail to apply for an ID card, they will go to the state administration's office, get confirmation, go to the polling post and vote. So they're not being stripped of their right to vote. They have to make one more store. As far as active registration is concerned, no one shall be deprived of their right to vote. Therefore, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have the right to vote can do so on election day. Those who have actively registered will come to the polling post where the polling post is, will receive a ballot and vote. Those who have not actively registered will come to the polling post, will go to the official who will tell him you are in the voters' register, you have the right to vote if he gets an active registration, come to the election board, take a ballot and vote. Therefore, no one is really deprived of the electoral right in this sense, so I don't think that from this aspect of unconstitutionalness the remark is standing. I have repeated several times, so I can once again, the active registration requirement is to introduce the Institute of Postal Voting, what the Croatian World Congress is looking for. With such electoral lists, it is not possible, with the electoral lists to be made on the basis of the active registration in the form in which we agree, and it may be within six months that registration is worth 4 years, it will be possible to do so in the elections for the Croatian Parliament. As for the election for the president of the country and in the European Parliament, that is not the case. As far as Saba's representative is concerned, the number on the list of voters in the city of Vukovar would be no more than 32,000 but 27,697. So it's about 13, 14% less than it is now. This number would be much closer to the real situation although it is still a little larger than the real situation, but that difference should therefore be done by the basis of the Housing Act if it is persons in this difference who do not have the conditions of residence. As regards the remarks made by representative Juričev-Martinchev, as regards transparency, I believe that the current proposal increases transparency as it gives the right to members of representative bodies at any time in the list of voters. As for the standard of enrolment in the register of voters, so I explained this before, so in the register of voters are Croatian citizens over 18 years. Over 18 years Croatian citizens have the right to vote. This law only sets out how they do it in more detail, all who have the right to vote. As for the vote of minorities and one list, and that's a matter for the gentleman, Mr. Komadina's question too was. So voters would come to the polling post and get a ballot, voters who have the right to an additional vote, so members of national minorities, a member of the election board would see that it is a member of the national minority and that voter would get a ballot on which they would both be, both the general list and the minority list, but he could only vote for one and that vote would be valid. When the election results are determined, invalid ballots are separated, and then these are separated from the valid ballots for the general list and those for minority lists. The number of votes valid for the general list is the number that has the citizens who voted in favour of the general list. The election threshold is 5% and now the election threshold is 5% of the votes in force. And those who voted for the minority list would have their own number of votes in force and there wins the one who has the most votes. So, I don't see any technical problems in interpreting the election results. The vote of 100 voters, valid 98, voted 94 for the general list, for one of the 47 parties, that's 50%. For the minority list voted four and so many and so many good ones. It's not a technical issue. And finally, thanks to all the MPs who participated in the debate, we have defended everyone I think convincingly of their views, all the proposals will be considered for a second reading, if we can reach a consensus on the active registration in the way we have expressed, the possibility of it being applied, unless it can take effect and with a delay because the next elections for the Croatian Parliament are only 2016, and by then perhaps we will agree. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18624	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18625	Proposal for a law on the register of voters, first reading, PZ No. 171, the debate on the draft law is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law on the register of voters is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 89 for, 30 against and 4 votes, have been abstentioned, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18626	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Croatian Radio Television, first reading, PZ No.63 Proposing the law is the club of representatives of the Croatian Labour Labour Party. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the report at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. However, my colleague Vuljanic will not be able to do so because the bill states that representatives of the motion are Branko Vuksic, Dragutin Lesar and Nansi Tyreli. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18627	Nothing should surprise us, of course. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the bill we referred to in the procedure were sent to amend the Law on Croatian Television on 11 April 2012. This was before the Government sent its proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Croatian Television, but I guess I'm just getting the circumstances or perhaps someone's desire for government. The draft law went according to emergency procedure and adopted, ours had to wait a few months to get into the agenda and to open the debate on it today. It is also interesting that this law was to be considered on the Committee on Information, Information and Media this morning, but the members of the ruling majority did not come to the session, so the committee could not hold a debate. We express our regret for that fact. The motives that were present when we proposed this bill was actually one motive, to allow the Croatian Parliament to settle the situation on Croatian television as soon as possible, by quick legislative amendment. We have offered one solution, for us better and more democratically, the government of the second and parliamentary majority has accepted this second concept of the government and these days this intervention will hopefully end when the vote appoints the Chief Director, the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. And it seems to me that it was necessary and it's a good thing that this process came to an end. However, the war with, when opposition proposals must wait a few months to open the debate, and in the meantime, on the basis of the Government's proposal, the same area, the same matter has already been resolved by law, even though we asked for the debate to be united at that time, both on the government and on our proposal, we were rejected. That's what I hope you remember. It is not good practice, it is not a good message from the ruling, parliamentary majority in relation to opposition proposals, but on this example it has indeed happened. Since our draft law was written on a law that was amended in the meantime, so the Parliament has already changed that law, part of the solution was similar to that and our proposal was part of the diametrically opposite, not wanting to make further confusion and disorder, with a reminder that the government had promised amendments and additions by the end of the New Year the new Law on HRT and I am withdrawing this bill from the procedure because its adoption would be impossible and counter-business because in the meantime it was only the law we were calling for to be amended. Just to point out, therefore, that this is not good behavior, on the other hand, we will show the will and willingness to agree on such important things as the public service of HRT, which is why we will withdraw this bill, withdraw from the procedure with the great expectation of the government's new bill on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18628	Now there's a consultation at the table. Look, the law has been withdrawn, so he's been withdrawn. There's no further discussion of the law. I'm not sure I should let you rephrase the withdrawn law. There's almost no argument. It's breaking up logically. Excuse me. Just one explanation I have to give because I'm also obliged to give it. The Government's proposal of the HRT Act did not go through an emergency procedure but in a regular procedure because you said so. Injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18629	Mr. Vice President. I didn't use the word emergency procedure, emergency procedure at the same session first and second reading. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18630	I followed what I said, so why did I make it right? We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Airports, first reading, PZ No. 87 Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers-Party of Work. You received the proposal by mail. in the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18632	Respect, Mr. Vice President, I just need to correct you, the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, did not discuss this item of the agenda for a one-off reason why this committee couldn't collect the quorum today. So even in this way, the rulings have shown what opinions about opposition proposals and even let's say in such a banal way they want to disable any quality debate on any proposal coming out of the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18633	I'm sorry, you're absolutely right. I've been told here that they held a hearing, but I apologize to both you and the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18634	Okay, it's okay. Thank you very much. In addition to another note attached to this, which is that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Laburists-Party sent this proposal on 9 May which will say that time was more than enough. What is wanted by this law? This law seeks to equalise the rights of workers of the Zagreb Airport with other workers in the Republic of Croatia who have come forward with the Privatisation Act and to enable them to participate in the ownership structure. Just to get a little chronological back. The airport law entered into force in 1998 under that law, the airport was defined as being of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, and services at airports are provided by companies to which the Company Act applies. According to Article 11 of that Law, the underlying capital of a limited liability company shall be equal to the accounting value of the assets of the legal entities referred to in Article 10 of that Law as set out in the balance sheet on 31 December 1997. Furthermore, the law provides for a way of determining the business shares and the way in which business shares are transferred. Then we had the 28th of January 2011 amendments and additions of the Airport Act, which were introduced among other things and the possibility of concessions at the airport, which significantly changes the way the holders of the business stakes are made available. This specifically refers to a specific proportion which, in accordance with the current way of privatising companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, should belong to employees or workers of the Zagreb Airport. With the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Airports, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has opened an invitation to tender at the Zagreb Airport concession. At the same time, at its 109th session held on 17 February 2011, the Government adopted a conclusion establishing that, prior to the conclusion of the concession agreement for Zagreb Airport, workers would be transferred up to 10% of the basic capital of Zagreb, Article 11. Airport laws. However, this has never occurred and the government has therefore committed the basis of this conclusion to certain ministries to perform the necessary actions in order to do the same. Unfortunately, this is not what happened today. We remind it, we appeal and ask for it to be initiated, and the reality is that this government now says it does not oblige us what the former government has said has reached its conclusion, it has decided. So does it make sense somewhere that we say that they say turkey dot is no longer worth it, we're second. The decision of the government regarding the essential part is simply invalid and these people do not need to be equal with all other workers who have achieved some of their rights under the former Privatisation Act. I hope that I've been clear enough though this all along you've had the opportunity to determine the knowledge well since May this year's hand on the heart we could all have taught him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18635	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada will speak the esteemed representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18636	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The law looks this thicker, however it is not, only two pages of text are. There are 816 signatures left of Zagreb Airport workers who seek, demand, pray, whatever you want to understand, that their word is also heard when it comes to their company. It is not common, it is not even acceptable in this country sometimes, but there are people who do not want to be quiet so their representatives came to us asking us to go to the Croatian Parliament with such a law and to show in the proposal of laws which are 816 names of people from Zagreb airport who would like something from the company where they work all their lives. They were declared rogues, non-workers, freaks, which they would like to do now, but they still think so, and we also think that they've worked fairly at the Zagreb airport these last 40, 50 years and that they deserve to be treated at the very least, so let's just say the way people who worked in other companies were treated in conversion... in privatisation. This law concerns, in fact, this proposal we make concerns the good part and the problems of managing state property. It's still state property, we still don't have a plan or strategy or any general decision that the state will make with its assets, we don't have a list of state assets. This country doesn't know what it's up to yet. Audio does it, radio works but it looks like nothing, but that the state of Croatia owns the Zagreb airport knows it and gives it in concession. As spies, spies, anti-spy, anti-spy spies are being debated here, road spies are being squandered with milk, and state property, property of workers and citizens of this country is being destroyed. At the Zagreb Airport, the government made a promise, even though it was the past government. She promised that 10% of Zagreb Airport shares will allow workers to reach those 10% before they go into privatisation. The government of the past didn't fulfill it. This government obviously, like all Croatian governments so far, thinks history starts with it, all that happened before was fuy, the thieving that it was, stealing what it was, the unfairer it was. But if we want the continuity of government in the state and if we want to respect our own country then the decisions of the last government need to be respected, otherwise it just doesn't make sense, it's not a system, it's a case. Although the prime minister said this was a random state and perhaps this... In all these ravines, however devastations are organised, workers are usually paid and their rights are generally ignored. Workers' shareholders were one of the promises of social democracy in Croatia. Workers' stockholdership is no longer mentioned as an idea in mind, the sale of everything we have is mentioned, concessions to what we have paid dearly and we will still pay. With this proposal, we set out to try this situation on behalf of those people who, by their signature, confirm that they are interested, to try to ease the situation, to try to persuade the government to act on its promises, not to issue its promises and not to issue what it was nominally advocated before the elections and above all, not to betray those people, not to betray those workers because they did not deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18637	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative Mario Habek will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18638	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will not support these amendments and additions to the Airport Act proposed by the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club. Namely, the Croatian Labour Representatives Club proposes these amendments to the law to share in the basic capital of Zagreb Airport in a way that changes Zagreb County from 55% to 51%, the City of Zagreb from 35% to 31% and the town of Velika Gorica from 5% to 4% in order to contribute to the business share of 10%. Calling on this, as my colleague has already said before, the government concluded in February 2011 that before the conclusion of the concession agreement at Zagreb d.o.o. transfer to workers a business share of 10% of the basic capital of Zagreb Airport. However, with the same conclusion, the government tasked the resolution ministry to draft and propose an amendment to the then existing Airport Act in order to bring that conclusion to life in practice. But it happened the other way around. The previous government did not agree with the conclusion of the proposal any amendments and additions to the Law on Airports, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not make any commitments to the workers of the Zagreb Airport. There are also the rights and obligations of members of the Zagreb Airport Society who speak of the fact that if some of the members of society decide to transfer their share, they must offer the same first to the majority owner, and only if the majority owner refuses to offer it to other members of society. The amendments proposed by the applicant should, therefore, be withdrawn without any consultation with other members of the company holding shares in the underlying capital. We find this unacceptable because it is not in accordance with the Company Act and this would violate the bankruptcy rights of members of society. Next, the promoter proposes the establishment of the Zagreb d.o.o. Airport Fund. in which the business shares of employees would be transferred. But the proposer gave a partial solution without a proposal to include the establishment and operation of the same fund. It is also proposed to grant concessions for Zagreb Airport and for workers. This would also be done in a way to privatise the company, which is contrary to the law, because we know that according to the Airport Law, concessions can be given for the construction and management of the airport, on properties owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local, regional self-government. There is a possibility to grant concessions and companies, but provided that they participate in that company, the Republic of Croatia or the units of local or regional self-government. From all of this, the conclusion that we stated at the outset that the SDP cannot support such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Airports proposed by the Croatian Labour Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18639	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18640	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. The government is in its statement on this bill and I must quote it not to make it up, she wrote: "However, it is clear that it is completely false to interpret the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 17 February 2011 is that certain ministries are responsible for proposing, in cooperation with the other holders, the model for the employees of the company Airport Zagreb d.o.o. offered to acquire up to 10% of the share in the core capital of that company. Nothing more than proposing a model to that conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been specified or has taken any obligation from the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the employees of the company Airport d.o.o. " We have prepared the bill not only on the basis of requests employed at the airport but also on the documents they received from the Government of the Republic of Croatia which was the subject of discussion and adoption on 17 February 2011 in which point 2 reads: "The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship are in charge of the participation in the trading company Airport Zagreb d.o.o. propose a model for the employees of Zagreb d.o.o. offered to acquire up to 10% of the share in the core capital of that society." So, February 17th, 2011. The government has tasked two ministries to design and prepare a model whereby up to 10% of the stake in the Zagreb Airport would make employees. What did we misquote in the bill that the government disputed the reasoning of the law, the assessment of the situation? So, by the exact name and last name of two ministries, the sea and the economy, they were given the government's task to prepare a model of acquisition up to 10%. That was the main argument. Of course, this government can say that this legacy of the former government does not accept, that it does not want to execute, that it will not implement the model of working stockholdership in Zagreb Airport. But it must undo this February 2011 conclusion with a new conclusion. This is being put out of hand and told to people clearly no, there will be no stockholdering because we think this problem is being solved differently. Then all this stuff that's left in the explanation would stand. However, the government does not deny that this conclusion has been reached, that this conclusion has been adopted, rather than being argued with us in its interpretation. Let's say that we misinterpretted, we all misunderstood what the government thought at the time, I am terribly sorry that there is no Mrs. Kosor here today, so she might remember what the government's intention was then by making this conclusion, but if one government promised workers and the new government promised to develop and improve the model of working stock and we have a concrete example of companies where the state also owns the City of Zagreb, Velika Gorica and County, is that ideal where we don't need to mix with private partners, but the state, local and regional self-government is on the move and the common model to offer such a significant model as... the legal stakeholders in such a sensitive segment as the airport, in particular because of the announcement of concessioning and large investments, further development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although labour-stocking makes sense, it is in those projects, those companies that have a perspective, not in bad businesses, not in companies before bankruptcy, not in firms that have no perspective on the market, but in workers of the state offering labour-stocking where there is perspective, something that cannot fail, something that cannot fail, something that will be jointly managed by the state, local and regional self-government. It's the essence of the proposal, we haven't sucked it out of our fingers, we haven't invented it, the workers have been looking for it for a long time. In February 2011, she said let's go do a model, the model wasn't made before the election, now it's a new power, if we want to make them, offer a model acquisition up to 10%. That's the topic of the debate. We want it or we don't want it. This is the subject of state property management. Zagreb Airport is listed as one of 66 companies of national interest, the special status of state property adopted by this Assembly. That list, the list of companies, has been established by the Croatian Parliament for some other reasons by another law, but it is worse. When we were looking for an extraordinary session of the Parliament this summer because a state property management strategy was not adopted in Croatia, and we heard from the media that the government had begun to make decisions on state property management without the Assembly having made a strategy. And after the strategy comes the annual management plan of state property adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So there's no strategy, there's no plan, and there's significant state property, we're told that the government hasn't made any decision, or any move that would be treated as state property management and that we're talking nonsense. We have also proposed conclusions on this subject, with one goal only, to come to the Assembly as soon as possible to the proposal for a state property management strategy that must be adopted by law by the Parliament on a proposal from the Government. This is an example of how state property is managed, because as far as I know the question of giving Zagreb Airport in concession is a done deal, without working stock. So, after this debate and the vote on Friday's airport workers we have to say no to the stockholders you won't have, you don't have a perspective on the market. But what does it matter now? Therefore, the government has made no decision on state property management. On 16 October 2012, I received a written response from the Government to one of the parliamentary issues, and I will read to you only one sentence: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision on the sale of the Croatian Post Bank d.d., i.e. the ownership stake of the state of 51.46%." The Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the sale of its stake in the Croatian Post Bank, based on which strategy, based on which management plan of state property? Why does the State Property Management Act say that the Parliament must adopt a strategy, that the Government must adopt a plan, and that AUDIO reports on state property management every year. We claimed that the government had made decisions, they said no, now the government has confirmed that it has made decisions. By rejecting this bill and giving a negative opinion, a decision on state property management has also been taken, and the air mad will not be in the ESOP programme. Which of the 65, 66 companies that are on the list, which are state-owned in general and most of them, are planned to be given into the ESOP programme? That's the answer to the strategy. What are these companies where we will try to introduce workers in Croatia? That's the question given in the strategy. What companies are we going to hand over? The strategy fits. What are we going to give in concessions? The strategy fits. That is why the Parliament has entered such a norm into the law that without a strategy, therefore the government has no autonomous right to decide. And it's good that today this is on the agenda, that we are discussing this right now because the government's opinion, the government's opinion and the SDP's club's clarity is clear, this government's state-owned assets will not manage or attempt to release workers and shareholders now or ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18641	Thank you very much. The next exhibition will be on behalf of the HDZ representative club. Dear representative Mr. Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a lot of what the esteemed colleague Lesar said by explaining and intervening on behalf of the promoter. I am also sorry that there is no such thing as you mentioned Mrs Kosor, but also then Deputy Prime Minister in charge of investment, fellow Milosevic, who has been involved since February 2011 with other colleagues and colleagues in the government. When a decision was made to go with the choice of a strategic partner, i.e. by calling a concession, by looking for concessionaires outside with a great financial power that could be invested in the airport, then the talks with the Zagreb Airport workers, or representatives of the trade union, began parallelly. At that time, airport employees asked: "Look at us by our work creating this airport, we by our work, if now comes a concessionaire, sides that based on their financial powers to improve this airport, to lift it to a higher level. Then, as employees through our union representatives, we ask the government to do the following, we ask for two things. We ask that we be provided with a system of labour stockholders up to 10% and ask that our collective contract rights be part of a new concession contract. The platform was then discussed in the government of the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia then accepted it. She led the government of Mrs. Kosor, directly in charge of Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic along with then-Minister Resor Minister Calmet. This conclusion has been made. After that, and it is true that the resolution ministries were in charge in the conclusion. After that, the job of preparing the tender documentation begins. And that's where the agreement is being established after a long debate, and it didn't go smoothly or simply, nor was it honey and milk. After a long discussion with the representatives of employees and trade unions, it is agreed that the collective agreement remains also an integral part of the concession contract. Which means when the concessionaire comes with the possibility of investing that they are more than 1200 workers working at the Zagreb Airport not only these signatures that the esteemed colleague Vuljanic mentioned that then these people are guaranteed their rights and their job is guaranteed. It's the only guarantee they have. However, there has been a change of government, this new government has completed the process of election of concessionaires and there is a signing of a concession contract. They are quite right by those colleagues who say that if this government disagrees with the February 2011 conclusion, then either it has to undo that conclusion or it has to come to a new conclusion that says this... puts it out of effect. It is impossible to simply ignore the document, which says the day that it was found that before the contract was concluded, workers would be transferred to Zagreb Airport by a business share of up to 10% of the capital before the contract was concluded. It means there's plenty of time for this government to do the same. I also can't be surprised that no one from the Resorve Ministry found it appropriate to hear this. And then today I received memos from employees of Zagreb Airport who have been writing to the same ministry systematically since the end of the 8th month and say after having a meeting with Resolute Minister Hajdas Doncic, they say, "Please give us the text of the concession contract." Therefore, the concession contract is not publicly published. Workers also seek and say they have the right to participate in monitoring compliance with the provisions of the concession agreement if, because of nothing else, the collective contract is an integral part of the document. That's what they say in the eighth month. And they write it again at the end of the 9th month, and they write it again at the end of the 10th month. What do you think they got the text of a concession contract for insight? No, they're not. Also, workers are asking the competent minister to continue the process of enabling the acquisition of ownership shares for airport workers. There's no comment on that. It's like all the other documents that the governments made before that were taboo... no comment. The Airport Protection Centre also says and suggests to the ministry "As there is information that concessionaries will also be sought for other airports in the Republic of Croatia, airport employees propose to the ministry to move forward with the joint development of a national airport and airport development strategy" no response. And look at the very interesting appeal signed by the president of the Zagreb Airport Workers' Union who says "Yes, how can representatives of workers who are in the Supervisory Board implement the Act on the work of envisaged actions so that they can follow the provisions of a collective contract that should be part of a concession contract, how to combat changes affecting the economic and social position of workers and how to monitor the interests of the owner of the Zagreb Airport", so the state, the county and two cities "when, as members of the Supervisory Board, they are not able to see the concession contract". Awesome. Furthermore, to be a pro futuro further dramatic not only on labour and labour rights, the employees of Zagreb Airport also say in their letter to the resolute ministry "the impression is that the issue of Zagreb airport remains a subject of secondary importance to the competent ministry while the Government of the Republic of Croatia is important for the sole and sole purpose of promoting the foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia", why the To God? Because they state that they are preparing and amending a social contract that will be introduced by a multi-member administration that no one has ever spoken or discussed publicly, because new changes are preparing to change ownership shares up to 10%, because the current administration is buying-out vehicles that are in lising and thus reducing the financial power of companies etc. etc. and then I'm really surprised why nobody from the competent government and the competent ministry has found at least 10 minutes to hear suggestions and debates, so maybe if he hasn't already been able to read these memos that have been sent to him for almost three months so maybe he hasn't been able to answer them, maybe he could at least have listened to the MPs and MPs in some way. This is a situation for us and it is a legitimate requirement to implement the 2011 conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the fact that in these memos, no one is looking for anything impossible, and it is certainly a warning of a commitment that has been missed, that is, when a selected concessionaire is clearly familiar with and with the rights that the Government has previously concluded with the employees. But the highlight of everything is, if all of this is not the government ready, if all of this is not ready, so that three months does not respond either to the request or to people sitting on the board of directors not texting a concession agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18643	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Maria Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18644	Comrade Mesic, I understand that here you must not agree with the government's opinions, or positions, but I would warn you again and when you talk about whether the government must either annul the conclusion or must accept it, namely, I will repeat what I said when I spoke on behalf of the club of representatives, and here it says in the opinion that the government has delivered to you that with the same conclusion that the government has entrusted the resolution ministry, meaning by the same conclusion where it was made possible, the government has commissioned this same resorient ministry to prepare and submit an amendment as I have said to the Airport Act so that this conclusion that it has made then, and that your government has made it possible, could have been implemented in practice. After that, of course, those same ministries that were your ministries when you led this Government of the Republic of Croatia did absolutely nothing about it, and therefore it is unrealistic to expect that this conclusion would have to be annulled for the reason that you, as a government who made a single conclusion, were then half the conclusion that you did not respect, or that your ministries did not respect the conclusion of that Government because they had not prepared any proposal to amend and supplement the law or any proposal for a model by which Zagreb Airport workers would offer 10% of the stakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18645	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18646	As far as our government hasn't done anything about it, it says enough that you, in our competition, signed a concession contract to the international competition afterwards, but in conclusion, it clearly states that the obligation is to implement this before the signing of the concession agreement. Well, that's what your government did. I am also telling you that there was a preparation of documentation for the competition that was conducted by the then Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, that our main job at the time was to go hand in hand to the employees, to protect their interests was to keep the collective contract as they have guaranteed workers' rights to be an integral part of that documentation. And of course we were waiting for the new concessionaire's tip when he came to do it. However, he does not care if he gives out 100, 90 to the state or county and 10 to the employees or 100, 100 to the Government. So that concessionaire doesn't mind. So that was our main concern at that time, that really those employees who built that airport saw their own interest and that they were still working on the well-being of that company. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18647	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18648	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, colleague Mesic, you're right. All in this country have the right to shares other than workers of Zagreb Airport because there were companies that were also privatised and later came to some property and then these assets were given to workers in a certain way. However, what we are not going to say is ours and your government because I think all governments are ours, and now which political option is supported by the other pair of shoes than that one government has decided that in a certain way the workers of the Zagreb Airport exercise the same right, the same right that ultimately the concessionary is anyway because the contract is signed with all the owners. Practically those 10% shares that workers or small shareholders have, whatever we want to call them, nothing would change in the end. However, I think that especially at times when workers simply did not know what would happen to the Zagreb Airport, where the concession contract is headed, what the number of employees would look like tomorrow because everyone served them the story they needed. Because before the election in Velika Gorica, there was, after all, a debate in Parliament and a served story HDZ so badly set up a concession contract, a future concessionaire will fire you 400, 500. So in order not to turn out to be fired by a future concessionaire of 400, the 500 government has made a decision to give 10% of the airport's ownership to these employees. But very interestingly, those who have shown so much concern that those 300, 400 people will be out of work at the moment when these people need 10% share at once dark, quiet, gone sound, someone turned off the light to say our people. That's the problem, in nothing else. The thing is, when we talk about people, when we talk about their fates, then there's no policy to interfere with, but politics has to do what she promised.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18649	Thank you very much. Answer, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Shuker, I must confess here I accept your line and you've said well, all the governments elected in the elections by Croatian citizens are our governments and I think you're here with complete right to replicate. However, you know this doesn't seem to stand for the workers of the Zagreb Airport. Because it turns out that governments don't stick to what's signed, and at the same time if they don't want to do it, they don't have the power to undo that conclusion. So, I'd like what you've replicated to me, a respected colleague of mine, to be of real value to those workers that you're very familiar with because you're coming and living near Zagreb Airport, you know that there are 1200 employees there, how much more of that public enterprise is pulling from the forwarders, caterers and everything else that one airport carries as a company, is practically the largest company in Velika Gorica. But here, they now think that just not all governments are equal and that all governments are not theirs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18651	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that of a respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18652	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you've told your colleague Mesic all well, what else needs to be added is the fact that we, as Government and myself, were personally in favour of both airport employees and former employees having the right to working stockholdership, i.e. to participate in the ownership of that entity that will take over business over 30 years, I am sure of a successful company such as Zagreb Airport, i.e. from concessionaires after the next 30 years. What is necessary to mention when it was mentioned here and the fact that it has not been spent for months. I'll tell you why. And that's when I told the union representatives, and I'm going to say it here today, and that's what I thought at the time, I think it's much more appropriate for the small shareholders of the future employees today to wait for the end of the international tender, to see what kind of offer it will be and whichever bidders, with whom a concession contract will be signed, will then be able to objectively valorise the assets in which small shareholders, so employees or former employees will become co-owners. What I must say at this time is that we are a November month, that we still do not know the exact start of works on Zagreb Airport, and since this was supposed to be the biggest investment project in 2011, where in some way close to the public-private partnership, so in such a model a part of the Croatian economy should be launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18653	Thank you very much. We don't have any more applications for discussion, so we'd like to offer, of course, to the promoter whether he wants to say something else? Yeah. The Honorable representative Lesar will be on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18654	Dear colleagues and colleagues very briefly. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia had given its opinion on our proposal for the law, it had encrypted the text of the law because of the nomotechnics, but had said in its opinion that it would prepare a better and more high-quality bill proposal and thus sent a message that it would remain at the centre of employee stocking at the airport that would be encouraging and a good message. The position of the government and the position of the ruling majority is exclusive, no, we are not thinking and we will not allow any form of working stock at the airport. If there were a representative of the government here, you might hear some additional explanation, some other announcement, but there is none, and I can conclude it on the basis of a written document of the Government and a debate on behalf of the rulings today. I must admit that I am saddened that on a subject like this which I thought would be imposed by the agenda by ruling as the working stock will be far more debate. But now I'm telling you again that this is also a matter of state property management. Once the concession procedure is completed and the contract is signed, this can no longer be realised. Why don't we take this opportunity? And why doesn't the government use such bill proposals to display a model of working stock she thinks is better than what she's offered? And why do we all allow and keep silent and go beyond the fact that state property is managed without a strategy that only the Parliament can adopt, does that not concern anyone? We're accomplices, we tolerate the fact that the existing law is not respected, and we know it. And we're not doing anything. And now that we come up with one such proposal for one state-owned argument against who? It's the former government. All right, they haven't carried out their conclusions. Where are your conclusions? Where are the conclusions of this government on working stock at the airport or anywhere else? That argument would be accepted if we discussed your model, but it's gone. So now I'm gonna call the workers and the proposings who gave us this and tell you that your answer is forget about it. No, that's not gonna happen. And the government's message that no one has come to this debate has their own political weight and their own political message. Not to us, not to me, but to the message of a relationship to opposition proposals. If I have to quote the words at the beginning of the mandate, "Every good proposal we will consider, discuss, seek consensus on the issues of national importance." Isn't governance of state property a topic that we should discuss in a way that will achieve as much agreement as possible? Consensus? Look, the working bodies don't want to put on the agenda and discuss these proposals in an attempt to boycott a plenary debate. We can drop the bill and not write another proposal. We can write five proposals every week to burden the agenda, but don't say we're not suggesting anything, we don't have any suggestions. Because whenever there are suggestions before you, the debate goes like this, a nonessential topic. For us 1200 people in one company, international investment is an interesting topic, a very political topic and a political debate. You said it was poof, okay poof.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18655	Thank you very much. He had two replicas. It is the right of the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I don't know, actually, the Honorable Representative Lesar is already a very experienced man and I don't know why he's surprised that there's no one here today from the government, when here, when employees don't respond to a memo. Where workers and union representatives who gather employees at airports in Croatia say let's sit down, make them a common national strategy. To make it easier for you to get new investments and new concession contracts. I really don't know when they go deaf on that, when they go deaf on the 800 signatures you have presented, so now I really don't know why they would listen to you and me in this Croatian Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18657	And the next is the replica of Ivan Shuker's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just in your last sentence, you were referring to a very important question. So this is the only investment this government has signed. We won't talk about what he's prepared, no matter. The only investment this government has signed. There was a huge dissatisfaction at the airport, and that's why that conclusion went the way it went, that's what to tell the truth. And now watch that with one investment, to eliminate the dissatisfaction of employees, to be one harmony, to have that airport start to build on universal satisfaction, and this is also an invitation for all foreign investors to see that the Croatian Government can solve the problem, that investors are welcome and that foreign investments have no problems in Croatia. Unfortunately, though, if the workers do not get what they are promised, and what they have been very jerked about or so to tell those who are in power today, that they have to get more than 10%, the logical thing that they will be dissatisfied, that they do not know at all what tomorrow is about when a new concessionary arrives, he will be able to attract so much new traffic, new passengers to Zagreb Airport. So that's all one big question. However, perhaps this, as we said, might not have been necessary to adopt the Labourist's bill, could have made up some kind of pathway of HDZ's conclusion, the pathway of your law, invent something third, but eventually the workers get that package they need to get, so it doesn't matter what it's called. And I sincerely hope that no matter what, after and after this law, and after that conclusion of the last government that this parlour will be created and that those thousands and so many employees at the airport will get their own package, and then we will all be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18659	Thank you very much. Here, then we've finished discussing this bill. And I'm closing the debate, and the vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18660	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Airport Act, first reading, PZ No. 87, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the working bodies and the opinions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Airports is not accepted because of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Working Body of the Croatian Parliament." I'm asking you to make your point by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour and 41 against, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18661	Now we would move on to the next point, which is : - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on minimum wage, provo reading pz no. 121 Proposer of the law is the club of representatives of the Croatian Labour Party. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The government has delivered its opinion and obviously the proposal's representative wishes to further explain the proposal, and Mr. Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar will explain it further on behalf of the applicant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course I will use the right of the motionor to further explain, but not too long because I appreciate the time of all of us and I want to discuss as much as possible today. So again, we have one proposal for a law that the government gave a negative opinion on and that is certainly pure demagogy and populism. And again in the media, representatives of the ruling coalition will say that we are only criticising, and we are not suggesting anything. The minimum wage law at the time of its discussion and the adoption in the Assembly also caused major controversy, different interpretations, and views and warnings that the 2008 Article 4th Act itself can produce problems in the implementation process. And of course there was the first problem at the time when the formula for calculating the minimum wage share was applied in relation to the growth of the gross social product, where it happened that the gross social product did not grow, so the share of the minimum wage on average could not be increased. However, the law did not provide for a minimum wage to be reduced if the gross social product fell, and thus the State Statistics Office has published for 3 years the same information on the level of minimum wage at the time of adoption of the law at 39% of the average salary. The aim was to increase the share of the minimum in average gradually. The first start was 39%. This unfortunate formula from the law did not increase from 39 to 40, 41, 42 but dropped to 36% and at this point we also have a situation that the minimum wage amount is somewhere around 36% of the average salary. We have proposed, in our opinion, a reasonable solution, that from today, the adoption of this law by June next year, the minimum wage is 40% of the average salary. So, of those desired 39 when the law was passed in 2008, we raised it to 40, and that every calendar year, and that change comes in June and not early in the calendar year because of the basis on which it is calculated and when the data are known so that the amount or share of the minimum in average salary is increased by 2% in order for it to be 50% in 2017. So not at once, not at once, but gradually at first at 40, and then gradually up to 50. I want to believe that this explanation to 40% or the interpretation that it is necessary and that it was the goal and when the minimum wage law is passed no one needs it. Because if in 2008 the lower tolerance limit was 39% of the average then the reason or justification that today should be 40% after inflation movement data only during this calendar year, the argument is more. 50% why? The International Labour Organisation has so far addressed the governments of the Member States and has warned that the minimum wage policy that has been present not only in Europe but also in the world has led to increasing income inequalities, that the differences between income incomes of the population have started to be too high and that they carry a ticking bomb, that savings or self-preparation policies do not give economic recovery, and that the increase in the share of minimum wages in the average wage should also be observed in the context of the overall economic policy. The government has shown itself on our proposal, firstly resented that in the context of the situation we did not give sufficient data and arguments to quote "the macroeconomic movement of the number of workers affected by the minimum wage as well as the difference in the average wage data paid in legal persons compared to the average wage in the economy". All this data is publicly available. Now only if the government asked me to collect it for them and let them know what that data is. Data speak when every year in March the Bureau of Statistics accounts so-called. The distribution of salaries, they say 22% of employees receive a salary of less than 3 000 kuna, that is official data, that 55% of employees receive a salary of less than 5 000 kuna, and that below the average salary or to the average salary they receive 67% of employees. It is our second objection to the government's view that such a proposal should try to bring social partners into line. 11th April 2012 5 union centres, and this paper I received only a few days ago, so 12th April 2012. 5 union centres addressed Minister Mrsic's request to start negotiations on a new minimum wage law as soon as possible and offered a model for her to reach 50% of what was the law's intensity when the trade unions therefore confirm that the law's intensity in 2008 was to gradually reach 50%. So one side of the social partnership stands in the same attitude as we do. The truth is we did not ask for the opinion of the Employers' Association but that role was done by the government in its opinion who said that it was against it and that it was looking for a different solution. Time flies fast. We are at the end of the year and every salary and every receiving and every month 200 kunas higher or lower pay. Statistically nothing is seen but for those who receive it believe it decides on the amount of bread and milk to be bought in the family. One more thing, when the law was passed, part of the industry I know textiles in mind, skin and shoes whether or not there was anything else and wood for the first 4 years of the application of this law with a reduced minimum wage because it was estimated that those as a low-accumulated part of the economy should come to be equalized all. And those four years they had a lower minimum wage. And it was a transitional period given even in agreement if I remember well the unions and employers precisely textiles, skin, tires, shoes and woodwork because they were aware that the rapid transition and growth of minimum wage could endanger their jobs at that time. And then I mentioned that there are different minimum wage models but Croatia has firmly defined itself to a unique minimum wage for all. There's a model you know that prescribes minimum wage by sectors of profitability. So long ago 1985 for the private sector of crafts and crafts were minimum wages in collective agreements if you did not believe in '85 the complete private sector was then classified into 4 profitable classes and each had its own minimum wage depending on profitability, and within each profitable sector there were calculations of minimum wages per UKR, a conditionally qualified worker preventing the same minimum wage from having people without qualifications, professors, doctors, engineers and all others. The model was offered in 2008 and then by ruling both opposition and trade unions and employers were against it, so no one accepted a sectoral minimum wage model other than exceptions to textiles, leather, rubber and wood. The minimum wage problem is three years. The trade unions sought negotiations and an urgent solution to the problem in April, we are now in October of the month. The government says, breathe, forgive me for asking for a new solution and the media are broadcasting today unless I'm wrong or yesterday that they're on some kind of one-sided decision because they didn't agree with the unions. The parliament now has the opportunity to accept this proposal, which according to the model, is the same as in 2008 by reaching 50% of the average salary that is in line with the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation received by our Government, which is in line with the gradual increase so that they do not suddenly overload the costs of the business of the economy. And what's particularly important is that it corrects the injustice that happened because of the formula in the law where from the initial 39 she fell to 36 and now her rise to 40% is actually returning to position 2008. No employer can have arguments that at this point, the minimum wage of 40% of the average in economic terms is not sustainable for him because the data on blocked companies and craftsmen clearly show that blocked companies have on average, those companies whose gyro accounts are blocked, one employee, and private entrepreneurs, or craftsmen, craftsmen who are on the average 0.6 employed and that the level of legal remuneration, wages, and especially not minimum wages cannot be due to their poor financial situation. But for us, it's more important, if we already have a minimum wage institute, whether it's purely economic and economical, or also social. Whether the fact that Croatia decided by law, and I remind you by 2008, was in a collective minimum wage agreement not law, so that was left to collective negotiations. Is the most important reason for national minimum wages a social category, social element of protection, income equality, yes. Yeah, that's what minimum pay is all about. Since I have found no objection to such a nature in the government's obvious, except that they have complained that we have not given them enough information and the promise that they will write it better, nicer and smarter, which is already an old practice, I appeal to most of them in the Assembly when it comes to voting on letting this law go to another reading. Maybe in the meantime the government will come with its own. Then we can unite the debate and see two models that will be better. If you do not allow another reading, letting the second reading of this bill again send a message that it really does not matter what is proposed but who is proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18663	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then we'd move on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Vanja Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18664	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club of Croatia will not support amendments to the Minimum Payment Act proposed by the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party Representatives Club. The Croatian Labour-Stranka club proposes a gradual increase in the minimum wage share in the average salary from the initial 39% to 50% during the ohoho years until 2018. The existing Minimum Payment Act lays down minimum wages once a year in June of the current year and adds to the real GDP growth of the previous year, according to the publication of the State Statistics Institute. The fact is that the minimum wage has already been gross for three years 2814, but in order to change the law needs to be changed and must be aligned with the social partners. This proposal of the Croatian Labour Labour Party Club is not really based on the previous analysis of official activity data, the sectors in which the minimum wage is paid, and in particular not on the difference in the average salary paid in legal persons, compared to the average salary in the economy. Also, such a proposal has more disadvantages than an existing normative solution. The comparison of the minimum wage with the average gross salary has shortcomings that are highlighted in crisis conditions. The minimum wage institute can indeed have direct effects on labour market movements. This amendment did not assess this. The amendments to this institute must be discussed and agreed with all the social partners, and the negotiations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the social partners are ongoing and are taking place very seriously. The fact is that under the current Minimum Payment Act, the current calculation does not respect the cost of living growth, and on the other hand, the minimum wage does not maintain the state of the Croatian economy. That is why the Ministry of Labour and the pension system has launched negotiations with the social partners to draft a joint proposal and to make it as good as possible. Since an intensive social dialogue deals with a new minimum wage law that will respect all the social partners of the SDP club will not support the proposal to amend this law, which goes by the Croatian Labour Party's Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18665	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, we will be approached by the distinguished representative Nancy Tyreli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18666	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. For reasons of clarity, the Government therefore proposed to the Parliament to reject the proposal of the Minimum Salary Act, which the Labourists asked for a gradual increase in minimum salary from 39 to 50% of the average salary with one of the strongest arguments, i.e. by reason that such a solution did not take into account macroeconomic indicators. We certainly accept such an opinion from the government, but does the government really need macroeconomic indicators? I think all of our analysis that we should have done through the government is unnecessary because we see these analyses daily as to minimum wage, unfortunately, on the roads. These are one of the most convincing macroeconomic indicators for us Labourists, and I hope for the government as well. It's interesting when we discuss minimum wage, then we need clear macroeconomic indicators, and when we talk about the sale of state property, then nobody needs to know any indicators and any calculation of what this sale of state property will bring to citizens. It is indisputable that the increase in minimum wages significantly improves the lives of low-income workers without having any negative effect as such, nor on the growth of unemployment nor at higher prices. It is difficult for anyone, but I think even the Government to challenge the positive effects that a minimum wage increase would especially take into account the impact on personal consumption as a component of GDP would have on this increase. In the Republic of Croatia, the minimum wage did not change for 3 years, more precisely from 1 June 2009, although the cumulative price increase in that period was 5.9% and the share of minimum gross earnings in average gross earnings was reduced from 39% to 36.5% in February this year. Taking into account also the fact that the CNB foresees a further increase in prices of 3.5% of one of the macroeconomic indicators the total cumulative price increase compared to the period when the minimum wage was last changed would be 9.6%, which, with unchanged minimum wage, pushes about 10% of the employment below that poverty line. The risk of poverty in the Republic of Croatia is growing. It's also one of the macroeconomic indicators that the laborists here haven't made. According to DZS 2010 figures, five-fifths of the population of the Republic of Croatia is at risk. In Croatia, this rate is 20.6% and since 2008 when it was 17.4% growth. There is growing and income inequality in Croatia. The coefficient of inequality in Croatia in 2010 was 0.32. Income inequality is also growing, and the minimum wage remains the same. These are macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Croatia. The rate of material deprivation of the population, which is the rate that marks the percentage of persons who, for purely financial reasons, cannot afford at least three out of nine items of accurate criteria of material depravity and that rate is 32.2% and the poor are even 57.2%. Another macroeconomic indicator in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is in a group of 11 European countries with the lowest minimum wage in that group of between 100 and 400 euros and according to its first, and according to the purchasing power of the fourth. Someone will certainly say from those who will not accept this law of Croatian Labourists that data on minimum wage amounts in the EU should not be compared to the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, but we can also compare trends that depend on the level of minimum salaries. The minimum salary of years in all EU countries is growing and remains the same in the Republic of Croatia. The cost of living is increasing daily due to the collection of the most basic needs of food, energy, heating, water, higher VAT, which is why it is necessary to protect the purchasing power of those minimum nature by maintaining such a minimum wage level. So we're resented that we didn't take into account all these macroeconomic indicators. I repeat, I think everyone is well-known, visible almost tangible at every turn. Given that the government is negotiating intensively with trade unions and employers on a minimum wage increase, it is expected that the minimum wage law will be amended and that is good. Since today in this house we are witnessing how the proposed amendments to the laws proposed by the opposition take a long time to come to debate here, for this speaker. Then we are satisfied because at least the Government can read the proposals, can analyze them well, can for all those indicators that are not the draftr of the law, and in the opposition it has succeeded in proving it, and show that it will therefore work hard for the Government and then the Government with some better and better quality proposal better analysed, with better processed macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Croatia in front of these same people of parliamentary deputies in this high house, to accept their bill. And that's what we're happy about. We are pleased by the fact that we have found the final model by which we will force the Government to be active and to look at and see those problems that are first in Croatian society, which should be a priority as such. So, a simple opposition to the procedure of its bill, the government takes it into consideration, read, analyzed, not to accept, but after a month, the two governments give their bill to this Parliament which is how it is accepted. Every model that solves as much as the unenviable position of Croatian citizens is welcome whether it comes from the left, on the right or anywhere, if it has its own seriousness, its weight and solves at least one of the accumulated problems. And finally, in the 8 months gross earnings in the Republic of Croatia amounted to 7977 kuna and was by 183 kuna based on 7 months this year. Net, gross salary was 5541 kuna and is higher by 125 kuna compared to the one at 7 months. If average wages grow, minimum wages should also be raised. On the other hand, the minimum wage is more relatively burdensome with taxes and dedicated taxes on high wages, due to the limiting of those most basics for the payment of pension insurance contributions. Here, if nothing else, and then even because of all this socially endangered group is being placed in an even more unfavourable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18667	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused two replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative of Vanje Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18668	Thank you. I repeat once again, so the SDP club didn't and I didn't say on behalf of the club that we're against the minimum wage law changing. And as I said, it prepares itself, so the new Minimum Payment Act, but therefore it must agree with all the social partners, but also with real figures, but also with this law is being prepared and all the mechanisms that will follow those branches that are already very big and have very big problems. After hearing all social partners, then, a new law will be passed that will be proposed in this Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18669	The answer to the esteemed representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18670	Well, here's a well-respected colleague, as far as you're prepared for a consensus on minimum wage, I think we'll soon have a chance to see, and the well-proposed legislator suggested that this bill be put into another reading so that then 2 together, 2 laws relating to the same subject come to the agenda so that we can compare each other, to supplement each other in order to bring the best possible answer and the best possible law for all those with minimum wage.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18671	Thank you very much. The next is the replica, she of the distinguished representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18672	Thank you very much. You see, colleagues of Tyrells, that you've really explained all the data, but we haven't heard one word from the government in over a year. We didn't hear any indication that the government could initiate this procedure. That is why these proposals of yours are shaking completely, they are shaking as well as the EU's remarks on some other things. As they will debate and think about it at all when they are taking on spy affairs, spying on the tycoon, and I don't know who, because it's their main task not to do what the people of this Republic have chosen them to do. You've calculated this nicely, that this 40% of the 2830 kuna is gross, gross minimum, minimum wage. And this proposal that, therefore, there is a correlation, i.e. to increase the minimum wage over the years ahead, and they include a period or a period of time for Croatia's entry, let's hope Croatia is 42 to 50% by 2018 would be great if it were to be spent. Unfortunately, it seems to me that this government is dealing with some other things and that the minimum wage is hers, hers actually minimal concern and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18673	The answer to the esteemed representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18674	Thank you, Mr. Grubisic. Yeah, I agree, and I also mentioned that we should know what our priorities are, obviously we don't know them. Well, these aren't any arguments that I've made today because they're not macroeconomic indicators, so how does government mean absolutely nothing at all that they would give their opinion about this bill so that even one of the government would sit here, so I think they're the best indicators in how much government actually cares about minimum pay, given how many government representatives are sitting here with us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18675	Thank you very much. The next debate on behalf of the HDSSB club will be held by distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the beginning and it is related to the last point of this Amendment Law and Supplements Act of the HDSSB Airport Club will support this bill, while here I am using this opportunity to give my condolences to the incapacitated Croatian General Branimir Glavas, since his sister died and I hope that these expressions will be brought to the attention of all MPs. On the basis of the proposal for the Law amending the Law on Minimum Payment is necessary and to say that we do not need so many macroeconomic indicators because they are visible to all citizens of the Republic that all citizens of the Republic know that although I claim that this is not only the result of these few months or almost a year of the Kukuriku coalition but these results are extended and several years back and we have not only connected to the global economic crisis but are linked to what we have now invented for crime and corruption which has long been known to Croatia so that today we have a decline in gross national income, we have a further increase in debt, we have a further fall in standards, we have poored citizens of the Republic, we have ruined the middle layer, we have at the end of our own money, we have a lot more money, we have a lot more money, we have a lot more money, we have a lot more money, we have a lot of money, we have a lot more money, we have a lot of money, and more money, we have more money, we have more money, we have more money, and more money, and more money, and more money, and more money, and more money, and more money, we have more money, we have more money, we have more money, we have more money, we have more money, and more money. It is expected primarily from local self-government not from the welfare center or the state to get those Christmas bonuses, for Easter 100, 200, 300 kuna to get the easy opportunity to get those biggest Christian holidays, and I apologize to all those who are not Christians, so all religious holidays are spent in one atmosphere with us for Easter to fuck those eggs and eat that cooked ham or Christmas here in Zagorje to eat that turkey with the mills, and with us we have that roasted pig. On the other hand, I said the HDSSB club would back this bill. We believe that it is a minimal increase in the non-taxable share of wages that we also supported because we are obviously one of the few who are aware of in this country that ordinary citizens live, that state officials and parliamentary representatives do not live, etc. Because each of us has a salary between 17 and 20 thousand kuna, and I always like to mention now the president of the State Election Commission who has a coefficient of 6.42, that's a salary adequate somewhere 25 thousand kuna and no one in this country can explain to me what he's doing at a time when the elections aren't? Does he check the voters' register? Whether to check the list of voters or simply rest waiting for some extraordinary elections in the Republic of Croatia. However, this minimum wage law and this increase in the non-taxable part of the salary that will be important, so this law of the sea and is definitely bound up as a law on combined vessels and the amount of the non-taxable part of the salary must certainly be linked to the most important, which is division, a fair division. We have listened so much to those justices from the presidential elections to the 21st plan that no longer exists, it has been turned into plan 25, perhaps soon 30, but this fair financial division of cookies, that tax section that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the ultimate rights of decentralisation that will enable all levels of the state to both the central state and the local self-government and the regional self-government to which the greatest burden has been thrown. Because no citizen with minimum wage will come to Prime Minister Milanovic or the president of the Republic. They'll come to the mayor, the mayor and the mayor first because they're shutting down his power tomorrow, they're shutting down his gas, they're shutting down his water tomorrow, his kids have nothing to eat. First they come to local self-government. However, this same local self-government, Mr. Rajenovicu Zagreb has 6 billion or 7 billion kuna and you are doing everything to keep all these laws focused on how to replace Bandic, and you do not see that 99% of Croatia is becoming increasingly poor and poorer, especially Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Especially them, but also Dalmatia. And if there was no tourism in Dalmatia, we'd have beggars and sons again, for sure. Find a way to replace Bandić, but otherwise, not at the expense of Croatia. So first these citizens and not only those who have minimum wage but also those who have not received salaries for 9 or 10 months, regardless of this new law, and those 323 000 who today have neither bread nor milk that is being spilled in Slavonia. Maybe this is a chance to talk about it. This government and this Ministry are very much related to the Minimum Salary Act because by destroying livestock and all these farms for which this country has also singled out a lot of money in large-scale programmes, there will be a return to unemployment and many of those who today receive such a salary in such agricultural production and ensure their family's normal life at that Employment Service where many young people will not be able to find what was once from college to work, and I claim that today is not going from college to work, but is going from college to the Employment Office. Then there in those Western novels it was Bud Hill, so that's what I'm talking about. This government, but also this Ministry must understand that the problem is not solved by milk or cheese packages, but that this government needs to be helped primarily by Croatian producers, not by those who are suffocating Croatian producers. So here's Mrs. Nancy, this wasn't a macro-economy, this was one section of the real state in Croatia where 90% of the population lives on the edge of misery, lives on the edge of existence, and I believe that all this is happening here and in many other cities, here behind us on Mark's square, that many of us will or will reshape, that many of us will not be allowed to go out in front of that people. So that's why I call upon and appeal to understand what kind of living social environment we live in, that this is neither Switzerland nor America anymore, that all citizens want to live and what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, at least in the old one before Shakespeare reshapes it a little bit, but it's not important in that part, it's important that everyone has the right to live decently from their work. Social Democrats, that was the basic principle of your social democratic program, at least I remember the program. But apparently 90% of you forgot what social democracy is and forgot the basic provisions of the Constitution. So the HDSSB club will support it. I'll be happy to respond to every replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18677	Thank you very much. We have one replica. I would only have asked all MPs before to stick to the subject. Dear Representative Damir Tomic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18678	Thank you very much. Here's a bunch of things I wrote down, but it's a little time, so I'll remember my Mayor Vinkovic's words that he put a breath of social democracy in Croatia, HDSSB, so I'm glad he reminded us of the crime and corruption in the conversion and privatisation that preceded the members of his party. I'm sorry he thinks they're the only ones who understand how Croatian citizens live. It's just nonsens. We need to ask the question of how much they have contributed to the citizens living in Slavonia exactly as he personally contributed to the introduction of a cut in the city of Djakova when he kept mentioning Plan 30. We can call Giaco's 10, will it soon be Plan 15? It's all one vicious circle where everyone has their share of responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18679	Thank you very much. Are you, like, a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What does the breach of the Rules of Procedure consist of?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18680	Article 216, so this is about insulting MPs even though we're good friends, but I think Mr. Representative should go to the First State Attorney's office and if he has information about crime, conversion and privatisation, and he knows very well that the only one who talked about this crime was me, but here I am. And now, if I can do the replica. I'm not asking you to warn him because it doesn't make sense anyway, does it? So, I haven't heard anything new or heard a single word that would say that the representative or the HDSSB club was wrong when he presented this information. As for the 10% cut, look, he was introduced while I was president of the SDP and mayor. So, and it was unanimous, and that cut was used to build municipal infrastructure. And the town of Djakovo was the only one who hadn't introduced a cut for many years, but it was primarily forced to introduce a cut since we had one long time almost 8 years when you couldn't withdraw some funds except from the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency because you weren't like the captain at the time with a little vitre. So, Mr. Tomic, I know that you didn't fall from the Moon, you didn't fall from Mars, that by 2009, we were in the same political option and that the tax was introduced as much as I remember in 2006 and that it wasn't a burden on citizens since those who had minimum incomes didn't pay any taxes at all. And that 10% cut is one of the lowest in the Republic of Croatia, and I think today, except for Zadar, if memory serves me, there's not a single municipality, a city that isn't... Well, you're a special public concern. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, except for Zadar that all units of local self-government have introduced a far larger 10% cut. On the other hand, I see, because I had to answer to Mr. Vice President, on the other hand, I think that many units of local self-government should, given that this disproportionateness in the division of finances should be declared to the units of special state concern. Unfortunately, everything in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18681	Thank you very much. I'd beg again first to stick to the subject and second to stick to the time. We've heard a lot of things now in this debate about everything and everything, so let's stick to the subject and time. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. To get back on the subject, we've moved on to local self-government and everything. We understand why the government rejects this proposal. He has to make a deal with the social partners, those of whom he has to get his opinion. We understand why the SDP club rejects this proposal. He has to accept what his government sends him and he can't do otherwise, and that's how he acts all the time. That's why this House is at such a price in all public opinion, it is. Unfortunately, nothing has changed. This question that we have raised by the proposal of this law is, in fact, neither the question of macroeconomics nor the question of such and such indicators, nor the question of the possibility of an economy. Methods for obtaining decent minimum wage can always be found with this kind of economy. This is a matter of human dignity and elemental decency. The gross salary of 800 kuna, which is 30 percent of the average salary, is not only impossible to survive but also offensive to those who receive it. It is proportionate to simply look for macroeconomic data from the perspective of this square out there and pay 15, 20 or how many who already have thousands of kunas. Of course, such a person is interested in the tables of macroeconomic data he actually has on the Internet if he wants to look for it, but they are not interested in the arguments that put this bill in the House. Those arguments are on the market, on the tram, on the road, these arguments here every one so fucked at the door of this House. Now, if the government doesn't have a sense of those arguments, I can only be sorry because it won't go well. The cake of social wealth in Croatia doesn't change at all, it is what it is. If we have so many hundreds of people today, hundreds of thousands of people close to the poverty line and below it just means that one of them cut off a little bit more. And what's our job here is to establish a social balance or things will explode. If three buy new Ferraris, six have to be found in a container, if there's no new social rich. If these Ferraris have earned so much that their company has blossomed and brought money out of the blue wonderfully. But if that's not the case, someone has to go to the container because of that Ferrari, there's no one else, that's what this law is talking about. The government's gonna say make a new and better law, maybe. It reminds me of one statement when a gentleman, I don't know where he is now but I guess somewhere in a strange place, said we'd build a nicer and older bridge. And the government will make a new and better law just doesn't know when and how. Honestly, I can't find a lot of people in this country who are going to believe a sentence like that. All the time it's been said that we really need to take a good look at our economic situation, see if that minimum wage can move towards the average, we probably can't afford it. And that's what the same people tell you in the second sentence, so what's the matter with you people, we need to level the energy prices with the Europeans we're in the EU. Are we in the EU in six months, and we have to level those prices, but when we have, say, a minimum wage or some other, I won't say the privileges, some other human rights actually, then the sentence wait slowly, we have to analyze it, discuss it with ourselves, with social partners, see macroeconomic indicators, and then we'll refuse. I hope this isn't the last word of the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18683	Thank you very much. He had two replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18684	I always stick to the subject, and it's about what the clubs so far are talking about, but we can't see this discussion about minimum wage unless we see the whole environment that's in Croatia, especially this economic one. Comrade Vuljanić, I thought that since this proposal of yours was sent to the parliamentary procedure on 4 July 2012, since I had not been to the two sessions of the Parliament, I thought this had been absorbed long ago, but now I see that here at the threshold of 11 months that the government has not yet opened that story with the social partners. So I'm curious about what she's been doing all this time, what she's been doing to prevent the further decline of the standards of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And they don't need economic institutes here either, they don't need great scientists either, it's enough to get out on the street and see that every morning, even in this Zagreb with some economic activity, which has a large budget, people dig through containers. That there are fewer and fewer jobs in Slavonia, that those who want to live from their work can no longer live because the cost of producing a litre of milk is greater than they get from large processors. That's what I'm asking now some, which was done by the State's Attorney's Office, which was done by the institutions of the rule of law when it all went away, said one Serbian singer at Honduras.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18685	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18686	Thank you very much. I would like to remind my colleague Vuljanić that what he said about some bridge that he said in fact "Tribin truck driver Vučurović's lorry after the excessive or even immeasurable artillery bombing of Dubrovnik, when they asked him what would happen to Dubrovnik, he said we will make even more beautiful and even older Dubrovnik." And as for fellow Vinkovic, who's replicated you, so it just has to be, say the fact that 3 liters of milk paid by peasants is 1 litre of water in the supermarket. Is that normal? Is this a normal state and is it normal for us to discuss 2830 kuna, today at a time when a consumer basket is bigger than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. Well, as in then, those with a minimum of 2830 will survive in Croatia in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18687	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18688	Thank you. Of course, he's right fellow Grubisic, it's actually embarrassing here to talk about something that should be a fundamental human right, and we should just all be together worried, so for God's sake that you people think about the state, about yourself, about us with 2830 gross, so with 2200 nets, just split it up for 30 days, and you'll see what things look like. And what always terrifies me in every government statement this is very nice of you to say, but we'll make it better and smarter. In his opening speech, the prime minister said we'll listen to every proposal that's constructive, which, you know what he said, I don't have to repeat. There was nothing left of this whole concilianity, there was nothing left, there was nothing left, the procedure was identical to the way the government, Sanader, was acting, in the hair, from letter to letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18689	Thank you very much. We don't have any more reports, so I'm closing the debate on this bill. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18690	Proposal for a Law amending the Minimum Salary Act, first reading, CZ No. 121, the debate on the bill is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law amending the minimum wage law is not accepted because of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament." I'd like to make a statement as to who the proposed conclusion is. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. Score. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 80 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 30 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18691	The next item of the agenda is - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, PZ No. 150 Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour-Stranka Work. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. The government also delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18692	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is a Labour afternoon, obviously. I guess that's what the government decided. This is a short little law. The draft law consists of a proposal to delete one article of the law. We propose to delete the article of the law which introduced a famous exchange clause in Croatia, which is based on which Croatian monetary sovereignty is placed under the bench, the kuna declared a bonus of EUR 1 equal to 7.5 of these points. The reasons are multiple why we started that initiative. We started it a long time ago. First, the governor of the National Bank declared us charlatans and funny, then destructives that after a year he would change his mind and say that he had something to do with abolishing the foreign clause and Croatia should seriously consider it. Today, the entire school of economic experts, half of the Economic Institute, claims that the currency clause must be abolished because it will explode. All right. People don't see right away, maybe change their boss's attitude so they can change their attitude, and that's how they eventually understand everyone or hit them in the forehead. The first reason we set out in this move is in fact an attempt and a desire to protect those still tiny elements of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia that are left. There in the early 1990s, when those companies that did well in INA, the Karlovac Jugturbina, and so on, first thing the customers did, destroyed the institutes. Not without a clue. These customers were not in the interest of developing in Croatia. So this developmental component of sovereignty was destroyed very early. The financial component of sovereignty was then destroyed. We covered the banks with a huge amount of money, sold for small money, and now we have Croatian banks that are only Croatian by the title. We've got another one, and now we're gonna sell it to the government. Then industrial sovereignty was destroyed, the processing industry in Croatia is virtually gone. Tom successfully went to work and created a good job and governor of the National Bank with parity fixed 7.5. It is realistic today 9 if we want to look a little realistically at the price of goods and services and in Europe, the euro should cost 9, with us costs 7.5. Of course we're uncompetitive wherever we show up, and no one's even weird about it anymore. The second factor of sovereignty remains the sovereignty to have our flag, to have our own money. Now if this new one is actually a bon that happens to be replaced in the euro sometimes, then we don't even have the money, then we start acting like Montenegro, we're actually already in the euro zone just not going to admit it. The second reason is the launch of this law is that in today's foreign exchange loans especially with those where the currency is not fixed, the risk is exclusively on the side of the borrower. The bank doesn't have any risks, of course there's a risk that they won't be able to charge anything at all, so then it sits on the property and that sort of thing, but the risk of what it actually puts into some kind of credit arrangement being cut down, that inflation will eat profit, etc. There isn't, which you finally see at the end of every year. The only one who has real profits in this country is, of course, banks. And the third reason is that we actually want to protect citizens from arbitration decisions that no one has any influence on, which concern their skin. By abolishing the foreign exchange clause and the ability to convert debts as well as the deposits made by citizens into euro or the franc security of citizens in dealing with financial institutions, it is certain that they will increase. When we talk about deposits today, we have, of course, foreign savings but two types. One kind of foreign exchange savings is the foreign savings that the citizens of the foreign currency actually brought in and deposited in the bank. That savings still remains foreign currency. No one can turn her into anything else. If I bring my dollars or my euros to the bank, they stay who they are. Another kind of savings is bringing the kuna and their conversion into the euro in this way as it is now done. The objection to this law, such initiatives have always been a sentence that Croatia is a highly eurored state, so I think it's a phrase. That means we're very connected to the euro. Well, that turns out to be some kind of elemental accident, like it hit a thunderbolt and Euroed us high or it was a drought, so we were high-eurosed. As if that wasn't the move that this one went through, pre-exit or pre-adjusted power decided by such legal provisions and concrete moves. The fact that we are highly Eurosed is no advantage for Croatia, it is a flaw for Croatia and it is something that can and will cost us very much, not to say costing a head. Croatia is already practically as I said in the eurozone. With a fixed exchange rate that the National Bank maintains artificially, and the Government supports, we have, as a rule, tied ourselves to the euro in such a way that we no longer know how to get out. Now, everything is fine as long as it can withstand this 17.5 until it completely chokes the Croatian economy, and partly Croatian citizens through the economy. You can imagine what will happen one day when the CNB realizes that the government can no longer see that it will not and when it says tomorrow morning the euro is no longer 7.5 but 9. Can you think of the kind of explosion that's going to happen between those who have credits and banks on all other sides? It's something that this society could shake like another decent war. They say critics and the government in their decision that refuses this bill that the currency clause is voluntary, so you come to the bank and you ask for a loan and they tell you if you might want a currency clause and you say no, you wouldn't, and then the banker says okay, it doesn't matter, then we'll do this. Of course it's not like that. A voluntary exchange clause is farce. The credit can be raised in kunas but then they are foreign exchange clauses, but then the conditions are as if the euro is 9. Then such loans are raised and interest adjusted to that. So the volunteering of the currency clause just doesn't stand. And raising a loan with a currency clause is actually one big scam because what you actually get when you raise a loan with a clause in euros or in Swiss and you buy a house, apartment, car, whatever. You don't get the money, you don't get the euro in cash you're gonna take away and pay someone. You get the kunas with which you pay for the goods, and you bring back something completely different. These banks were not in charge of the Swiss francs and of the euro, not at all, there was no need. They're not in charge at all. When they were in debt, they didn't charge themselves because of my 100 000-euro loan because there was no need and I got kunas, I didn't get euro, but I'm going to return euro. Croatia's wages are earned in kunas, goods are paid in kunas, loans are returned in euro. I don't see any logic here, there may be some kind of hidden very wise economic logic that someone from the Economic Institute will reveal to me, but I don't really see it today. I don't have any specific transitional and final provisions of this bill for the simple reason we don't think any transitional periods should be. What has to be done must be done now and here, hik rhodus hik salta, we won't jump for a year somewhere else. What we don't do today will certainly jump by our necks tomorrow and pin us down. The course fixation is now going to be done by every businessman, at least the one who tries to do something says the economy is being destroyed, and the course fixation is being defended by the foreign clause. As destroying the users of the credit if we cancel the foreign exchange clause, and if we fire the exchange rate and bring it down to some real proportions, those credit users are, of course, all gone. In the meantime, with such a course, we're ruining the economy. It's one... from which exits can actually be difficult, except for one brave move, to lift the foreign exchange clause today and right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18693	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18694	Thank you very much. I simply have to replicate for one reason why my colleague Vuljanić can say in this House of High Thank God so no Croatian bank, no financial institution in the midst of the financial crisis has come into crisis because if that had happened then we would have told a completely different story here today. It's easy to stand behind the board and yell. At some point, however, you need to take responsibility for something. But I repeat, Croatia is one of the few countries in which no bank, no financial institution came into crisis in the world when powerful financial institutions had the largest credit rating possible. To talk about whether the currency clause, we can all say that we are against the currency clause, but the currency clause was not created yesterday, did not occur the day before yesterday. The currency clause came after major banking crises when Croats had no faith on the one hand in the banking sector, when on the other hand we trusted German stamps but anything and people simply bought foreign exchanges, armed them in business banks to protect themselves. And why did I answer the line? You said business banks don't owe themselves outside. That's just not true. ... No, the capital of business banks in Croatia is not just saving Croatian citizens. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If that were the case then probably no one would talk about the foreign exchange clause, however, you must know that they get very cheap loans from their mothers outside and that these loans are placed in Croatia under certain conditions. Also when we talk about this unfortunate Swissman and the governor of the CNB and I, as the minister at the time, warned the citizens to be careful because when something enormously high or enormously low, anything that is outside certain gauges was dangerous and unfortunately happened to Croatian citizens who at that time attracted loans in Swiss at a very low interest rate. So I understand your bill and I understand you, but one thing is that you need to know how something happened and that there has to be a period to move something, something just can't be cut overnight. So there's no management of Rohatinski or anyone but simply for a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18695	Thank you very much. The reply of the distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18696	Thank you, Mr. Shuker, indeed, for not one bank in Croatia has been in difficulty. The main reason is because we bought them three times and paid them well, so she couldn't find herself in trouble. I was recently in Romania, so the Romanian prime minister told us about his banks and said, you know, we don't have any problems with you and the banks. Everything's great. I said how? Well, he says none of them are ours. We don't have a problem with banks at all. Well, we don't either because none of them are ours, that's right. We paid them dearly and then sold them cheaply. And now they're not in trouble, they're not pulling the money out of our pockets. The deposits of Croatian banks and Croatian citizens are very close to what Croatian banks give in their credit placement. Very little money comes from the outside. Our money, so Croatian state money, Croatian citizens, Croatian companies give other Croatians, is it with fat interest and profit out. So don't say it's normal and now they need to be slowly attracted to the foreign exchange clause.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18697	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first to debate is on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18698	Dear colleagues and colleagues in front of us find the text short, but by content extremely significant and I will be free from an extremely dangerous proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Mandatory Relations. The Law on Mandatory Relations is one of the most important laws in the Republic of Croatia. It regulates various things, purchases, leases, but among other things, the Mandatory Relations Act is the basis for a loan contract and for a savings contract. In this law, it is prescribed that the parties freely regulate their relations as one of the basic principles. That the parties themselves edit what they will give, what they will receive, and that the parties themselves regulate the way they will pay for it. Thus, the parties themselves decide whether to protect themselves from the risk of paying, from the risk of losing money, from the risk of inflation. The parties themselves decide whether the value of the money in the contract will be linked to some index, price movement index, gold index, cost-of-life index, social product growth, or currency basket or only individual currencies. The parties do not do so because they are prescribed by someone, the parties do not do so because they just thought of it, the parties do so for very clear reasons, and that is to protect what they have given, or what they have received. The object of this law is an attempt to delete such a safeguard clause and that currency clause. The promoter suggests that here now, as he said immediately without delay, we delete the currency clause without adjustment. This is not only for future contracts but for all contracts in the Republic of Croatia, not only in the Republic of Croatia, but for all those contracts with an international element to which the Croatian right applies to abolish the possibility of using the currency clause. We in the SDP can't accept that. We can understand the applicants' concerns for the well-being of Croatian citizens especially those who have taken loans in this non-inform Swiss and are in trouble today. However, the applicant did not propose to amend laws which would concern only consumer lending. The promoter went to all the contracts, and now I'm going to explain to you what that would mean. For example, under the provisions of the law on the settlement of the conflict of laws and under the provisions of the Roman Convention under the relevant law for contractual relations, Croatian law applies to the contract on the construction of a ship, the paf contract is no longer in the dollars, the contract is in effect after the entry into force of this law in kuna. And the shipyard pays steel in dollars or in euro. Imagine, who would arrange for the construction of a ship in kuna tomorrow with the Croatian shipbuilder? No one. Our exporter produces goods, according to the Roman Convention on the Production of Goods, the Croatian first applies. Under this law, contracts must go in kunas. Who would buy goods in kunas? No one. So imagine now, a Croatian citizen took credit in Swiss, according to this law, that loan becomes a loan in kuna tomorrow. What course? They run when he took it? No, after today's class. You're asking the Parliament to pass a law under which all the contracts in the Swiss of the same glass will go into kuna at the worst rate at a time when the Swiss franc is more than it's ever been. What kind of concern for Croatian citizens are we talking about? Here we are facing a populist bill that is counter-constitutional because it violates the freedom of entrepreneurship, which is counter-constitutional because it is all retroactive. You're trying to take care of the citizens through something that you're aware won't and can't be adopted and tomorrow you'll be saying that your good suggestions aren't being accepted. No, it's not true. As unpopular as it may be, most in this house are obliged to say no to these proposals, regardless of what the adoption of this law would bring any positive points and votes. We can't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18699	Thank you very much. There is a replica on your exhibit by distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18700	Thank you very much. I'd only like that part of your argument when you were talking about shipyards, so when you illustrate one example when you rule out a total kuna, how the shipyards can find themselves in trouble. Remember the moments when the euro was introduced, then for one dollar you should have given 1.11 or 1.12 euros, later because of the situation in the world etc. The monetary policy of America dropped the dollar and came in there somewhere in 2006 to historically low branches, to 4.5, to 4.6. Croatia's shipyards have all agreed on their price in dollars, and all the repromaterials, the highest part of which they bought in euro, so the kuna is nowhere, the kuna was only given to the workers in the smuggling. So you see when the big guys play with the course that's going on. So we in Croatia just didn't want to admit to ourselves that the big ones played with the Swiss, unfortunately they're gonna pay small. So let's not play with serious things.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18701	Thank you very much. The next, I didn't see, the answer is here's the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18702	Well, you're partly right, of course, the shipbuilding problem was because it was negotiated in different currencies, but even if Kuna was involved in that contract it would be the same because no one in the world outside the Croatian borders will agree to pay for the boat in kuna. And even if he does, he'll tie it to a foreign currency. So we can't get away from it, Croatia isn't an island, it can't lift a barrier at its borders and tell your values here stop. So you imagine how this provision would affect banks? I'd be the first to raise money for fear tomorrow and go beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia and save it there, and I'm not the only one. Imagine what that would mean for our entire financial, banking and monetary system? Collapse. And my colleague Shuker pointed out a problem with steel prices. Unfortunately, it's true that the National Bank came with sharp instructions, suggestions for citizens don't take credit in Swiss francs, we don't protect our currency according to the franc, we protect it only according to the euro. Most of the citizens didn't listen, neither did I. I took for the purchase of a car loan in Swiss francs, and I paid dearly for it, but not because I had to, but because I was easy on the interest which was on the Swiss franc at that point was much lower and I paid the price. But my mistakes, not my country's mistakes, and the state has warned me about all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18703	Thank you very much. The exhibition on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club will have a distinguished representative, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18704	Dear colleagues and colleagues of Croatia have victims of war, pores, Homeland War, accidents at work, road accidents, but Croatia also has victims of francs, Swiss and euros. And he can say here that this bill is dangerous and he's using arguments he wants, but the fact is that in this country live citizens who are bankrupt because you've all been pretending that no one sees or hears anything. Because you say that the CNB warned citizens, you can justify anything, but the fact that hundreds of thousands of citizens today are in a situation where they are left without an apartment and a house, they still have to return credits and no solution is offered, but this proposal is dangerous, this is terrible, this will destroy the banking system in Croatia. When families were destroyed, when social minimum systems were destroyed, when these people ended up under bridges, vaults, sheds, basements, other people's barns, it was not dangerous, it was desirable even by the words of the Social Democrats. All right. The bank and state have warned "and this is a pure populist proposal" to quote a fellow coat of arms. He may not know but this was second time given in the Parliament the same proposal. Three years ago we talked about doing something, we called first on the governor of the CNB who said no to the Croatian Parliament. At the same time, the Croatian Parliament does not wish to accept the fact that in Croatia there are colleagues from the Faculty of Economics who have consulted on this law and who, by 15 points, gave arguments why the foreign exchange clause should be abolished. These are... their suggestions their arguments so if you pollemize them and accuse them of a dangerous proposal I'll pass on to them, probably some of them taught you and they'll be proud of their student. All transactions contracted in the area of the Republic of Croatia are purely domestic and not international contracts, it is an internal payment turnover of goods and services, and the same is the situation with credit agreements and therefore must and can be settled in kunas. That's the first argument. Secondly, the Law on Mandatory Relations points to volunteering, however, this possibility violates Croatia's monetary sovereignty because the kuna is legally and definitely the only means of payment in the Republic of Croatia. Thirdly, prices for contracted goods and services in Croatia are expressed in kunas, and loans are paid in kunas, kuna loans. The existence of a currency clause implies that prices must also be parallel to a foreign currency, since this is not so clear that it is a unilateral approach to the application of the currency clause to an unfair procedure and fraud. Third, the currency clause shall transfer the risk weight of the change in the exchange rate to the debtor only. As residents of the Republic of Croatia earn their income almost exclusively in the domestic currency, it is clear that the change in exchange rate, e.g. The franc or the euro directly increases their obligations for no real reason with prices on the market, meanwhile, nothing happened. It is said that in domestic transactions where no price change or principal has occurred, the currency clause has a speculative character and puts the debtor in an extremely unfavourable position, benefiting exclusively from the speculative interests of banks. The 5th currency clause should also be abolished on loans and deposits. On the other hand, that doesn't stop the bank from approving the so-called. foreign loans, of course, and foreign savings. This isn't about the debate of foreign exchange loans, it's about kuna loans with the currency clause. The 6th approval of the loan with the currency clause puts the debtor in an extremely unequal position, namely the currency clause since the speculative character implies a prior well-known segment of the management of the currency risk which is not a problem for the bank, for the debtor is whether he does not know it. Currency risk management is always ahead of banks. 7. If someone took a loan to buy an apartment in Croatia and the bank conditioned the currency clause is actually two jobs. One is the sale of an apartment in kuna, and another is the credit agreement between the bank and the clients who need these kunas to buy an apartment. The change in the course of franca or kuna has nothing to do with the price of his apartment, even when it falls or grows. 8. Bank balance sheet analysis which granted loans to Swiss franc citizens says that these banks did not buy francs in any case to balance their currency position, but their sources of credit funds were dominant in euro or kuna. And that's the official information of the CNB. 9th, we propose the abolition and the immediate abolition of the currency clause, noting that these banks simultaneously negotiated variable interest rates with the right to unilateral decision-making by an act which was not subject to the loan agreement. 10.Indentation of the currency clause will not destabilise banks because banks at system level have a balanced relationship between assets and liabilities. The 11th currency clause in Croatia has significantly contributed to the euroisation of the system, which clearly leads to currency-induced credit risk. The 12th currency clause also poses a great danger... the system and all individuals the problem becomes insolvent from the monetary level and moves on to the social and political scene. The 13th currency clause is a real time bomb that can destroy any single debtor of their family and the entire economy. The first institution to abolish the practice of using the currency clause is the state itself. It must stop imitating bonds and vault records with the currency clause and the 15th Croatian monetary banking system thanks to the currency clause and the massive sale of banks depends on external factors. It is 15 arguments and reasons that are not written by any Croatian Labourers but by professors of the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb. I will pass on to them the SDP assessment that they are usually populists who wrote and proposed a dangerous bill for Croatia. But this isn't a good solution, and what's a better solution than that? Put things away and wait? Will the CNB be able to keep the Euro Kun course stable as it is or will there be an explosion? If the solution is to wait for us to enter the euro zone that one says don't rush too fast, the other would just as soon as the new governor did. Is the solution to introducing the euro immediately so that we can address the problems of the euro foreign exchange clause? You attacked this proposal and declared it dangerous. What's the counter-proposal? How to protect citizens who are out of ignorance, that fellow coat of arms, yes, the citizens weren't all lucky enough to finish college. Not everyone has the Internet to be educated because it's a currency risk and they got into these relationships and failed, not 1, not 10, not 1000. This is about a large number of families who have even entered into credit relations by buying an apartment with state support and incentives to come home. Now that they're selling that same apartment, they've got 80,000 euros left to pay back. Where's the solution? Those who also have loans related to the euro, and their salary has dropped 200 kuna per month where the solution of those who have been fired and fully credited and their mortgage is activated. He has a proposal from the Franak Association that proposes to the executive authority certain models to intervene in the protection of these citizens. He's not in the Parliament. There are suggestions and other experts who offer different solutions than this. It's not being debated anywhere to adopt... and say that, this is stupid but we're going to intervene in this way and put it in protective custody, and in the future we're going to let the banks of the foreign exchange clause, the variable interest rate, the mortgage, the judge and the bailiff and the bank take credit risk, can you imagine, with that kind of credit. So what kind of bank risk is that, with such credit conditions? It is good that banks in Croatia are not in crisis, that is very good. But whose credit is that, theirs? So as they treat the economy, how many credit lines they've released towards the economy in this calendar year, which they're lending. They credit their strategic partners from Italy, Germany and Austria in Croatia, not Croatian entrepreneurs. He says there's no good programs, only they have good programs. When the governor fired and loosened his mandatory reserve, he made it possible if I didn't cheat on my colleague... he said 8 billion. What did the banks do, what did the banks do? They helped develop the economy, save jobs, and eventually get into the risk areas, save the O.P.G.s? No, they're not. And now we're crying over the danger of abolishing the foreign exchange clause, can you imagine the banks being in a big mess. Well, in the structure of external debt, the state didn't go into debt and blow these 8.9 years back external debt. This was done by banks and leasing companies owned by them over 24 billion in the structure is all theirs. Is mine, your interest here a poster over the fate of banks and to protect their interests or to ask what with citizens who are victims of all this and the banking way of doing business in Croatia. What's our business here? I am protecting the interests of those who are victims of the loanary, amoral, even concise euroisation of Croatia so that in this way they can hunt in the murky and the same ones that bought these same banks after 80 and several billion kuna restitutions for a fine or a tenth of that value and later blackmail the state in credit conditions under which they will eventually credit and credit monitoring the Republic of Croatia. Yeah, I'm open to side citizens and they're my subject of interest and concern, not my banking system because they showed they weren't willing to take any risks. And why they're good, because we've all been carrying a burden of risk and employers who've done fair and square business, who aren't blacklisted and workers who've been fired and retired and unemployed and sick and healthy. Everyone in this country has been carrying and making efforts to get out of the crisis other than the banks. Nobody touches them and you don't have the guts to introduce a tax on transactions and talk to them about what it is. And now here you say this is a dangerous suggestion. Well done. Yes, I admit to you openly, I attack the banking system in Croatia. Yes, I think it is necessary to change it urgently and that the behavior of the CNB must be different when it comes to monitoring it because on top of what they're doing, the banks, what happened to them with this bank that was rescheduled now a few months ago. How it's so easy for banks to get into Croatia that no one sees anything, that nobody knows anything, and then they go back to rehabilitating and then you realize that someone's government has all kinds of interests in that bank. That's why she was taken care of two, three months ago and rescued. Yeah, I'm talking about these banks, too. Yes, we are talking about this kind of banking behavior towards Croatian citizens. If that's a dangerous suggestion, I'm proud to offer a dangerous proposal for banks. And about the populism they called this, I'm going to pass it on to the authors of the text.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18705	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Next up is the HDSSB club... And there's a replica? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not written, I'm sorry. Who is it? She's not here. ... Your Honor, if you'd like to use the replica, it wasn't written to me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18706	Dear colleague Lesar, please pass it on to them. Please pass it on to them and warn them that whoever sends these proposals in the procedure is not taking care of the citizens, but concerned about how to destroy this country. This proposal of yours isn't just about banks, it's about banks at least. Each bank will install a protective mechanism to protect its placements. This applies to all exporters, all producers in the Republic of Croatia who have concluded a contract to sell their goods abroad. You're talking about something you have no idea about. I've never said that in Parliament before, I have to now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18707	Don't speak, dear colleague, who has a clue, let the representative speak his views. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18708	Contracts with the international element are also contracts concluded by the Republic of Croatia with some outsiders. You influence them, you influence the savings that citizens will raise from this country and take abroad. You are not just talking about lending in this bill, you are talking about everything that is covered by the currency clause without criteria, without transitional provisions, without being prepared to apply what you have proposed. It's dangerous. We're not just talking about the economic position, we're talking about the legal position, and you're not taking any of it into consideration. And that's why your proposal is populist. And it's not true that this government is doing nothing, you forgot about the Consumer Credit Act. The first time we were in a position, we passed a law that regulates the problem of variable interest, but we are a market economy risk must exist. When the Swiss course fell, as he approached the border of 4 kuna, no one objected because the banks were losing on loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18709	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18710	I'm going to try to refrain from any replica because of this insult you've given me, which is the most about you, you probably have a device that you in the SDP measure who has no idea who has it. But I'm very sorry that as a representative of the ruling position other than criticism, you have offered no solution to the problem I was talking about. So you don't have a solution. That shows that what you accused me of actually talking about yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18711	Thank you very much. Next debate on behalf of the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18712	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Says Prime Minister or Prime Minister of Hungary Mr. Orban when he talks about the economic crisis in southern Europe, then he says: "Socialist governments did not prevent banks from cheating on people who therefore, so these people, mass contracts on the basis of which the profits belong to the bank, and the loss and risk borne by the client who took the loan.", finished quote. Is there anything more to be added to my debate that preceded this debate? And what did Mr. Orban do? In a similar situation, almost the same have been found and many say about 600,000 people who are in charge of Hungary in the same way as the one who has been deceived and who are eager for pulsism by Croats and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. He brought some measures, primarily to help certain measures with financial start-up, not to mention forints because he founded forint as a basic means of payment in Hungary, thus helping about 100 euros in forints to anyone who had difficulty with the Swiss. Furthermore, he offered early repayments by raising a second loan in forints to settle that bank that seeks its funds based on the Swiss debt of a Hungarian citizen. Furthermore, he introduced a moratorium to the debacle of the people the bank had come to, so to what is basic, which is his apartment, his house and the possibility of even living under the roof. So he introduced a moratorium. Furthermore, he offered favourable constructions to rent to those already decommissioned. So he helped those where the moratorium measure was too late. He established a rate barrier, but also introduced a tax on bank profits and multinational companies. What did she do compared to these Hungarian measures by our Socialist government, if it's socialist at all? Nothing. She left our citizens at the mercy of the banks. By the way, be told by banks in which Croatian people save 160 billion kuna and from which kuna or currency they lend and take expensive, so they lend and charge expensive interest to those who need credit, even our economy even though very little. With our own money, our citizens' money they use these interest rates very well, to say they're undermining, and then it's paradoxical, and not accidental, there are random states, and paradoxical Croats, but then it's paradoxical and a statement by the president of the Croatian Banking or Banks Association which says it is also complaining, complaining that last year's profits fell by about 8%, but it doesn't say how much the bank's profits are and how much the drop is. And it's about, and to be clear, it's about billions or tens of billions of kunas. Unfortunately, for those 8% of the profits, not traffic, not income, but profits. And how did 250 billion, 250 billion kuna profits come out of Croatia for the last 10 years? And who brought it up? Who is credited with Croatian savings? The economy and craftsmen of foreign countries, i.e. the countries from which the parent banks, the mother banks, are encouraged, will not speak of names now, so they are credited, that they get out of the crisis, in Italy, in Germany. So how many credits are distributed to Croatian economies? In crumbs, it can be measured against the money that went somewhere else, the capital moved somewhere else. And then the measures that are here are Labourists, the Croatian Labour Party proposed, and by doing this and thinking not socialist, but liberally, the blackest liberally called populist. It's not right, so if it's so populist, you as a government must think about your citizens. And how many are affected by this Swiss crisis, not by the crisis, but by the robbery? Well said Lesar, by robbery, by loaning, I have no words to express, which are citizens, it is said in, given the obligations of relations you signed a contract, so you who here have spoken even though you have the Internet and you understand it and you have been somewhat deceived. But you could have paid yours, you could've, and I paid for my son's Opel astru, and he also raised it in Swiss. I'm in the euro, he's in Swiss, so he wanted what I know. Since it was near the end, I did not use the orban measures, but neither did the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor did it before now. Yes, this is about dishonesty, fraud and robbery. They say ignorance doesn't justify it. Is that right? Does it have to be like that? What is the position of the borrower in relation to the borrower? And what's going to happen is, in fact, it's already happened in a lot of cases that banks actually have become, not owners, into their portfolios, so a series of real estates. They're offering it for sale to settle in cash, not to mention... Why, below the real price of real estate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm surprised that this review is critical rather than that, as we said before, the law that this minimum personal income will also be considered in the circles of the ruling, so some sort of solution will be found. I expected a similar explanation, not those balloons that were proposed, I don't know who was talking about balloons about saving people from the Swiss franc, that it would come to, at least, that there would be at least a shred of sensitivity, not to say social. Well, if they're gonna say it, we'll consider it, we'll try something. Unfortunately, though, banks obviously have their protectors in the government, and perhaps banks have owed these people something in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. He has information that some get loans for their companies, which are not very personal, but are transferred to a legal society, and then they get loans without some big guarantee, millions of kunas. Well, then Croatia's got insurance involved, and there's a lot of stuff. Well, normally, if that's how it goes, then someone or no one in the government is even interested in dealing with banks. And what does the CNB do? Nothing, it's 100 days this week as the new governor of the CNB is on duty or function. Did he have any instruments or ability to influence either the government or to influence commercial banks, not to say, behave differently or at least do something to help or change something about debt? Those who have fallen into so much difficulty, these citizens who have about 125 thousand in Croatia, so there are some statistics. In Hungary there are 600,000 of them, there are 10 million of us, there are four of us who know how the State Statistics Office will still calculate by the end of the year there might not be four million of us because we're all moving to other countries. So, what's going on with the CNB? Well, nothing. Hold the course of the wheel of Rohatinski so it was said at the beginning so it would. So not only are the Croatian Labour Party, so here we join this legislative proposal, but we should first of all encourage the ruling to think about this not in a way that declares this a demagogy and pulsism but also in some way a concern and what is here and President Josipovic called it if nothing else but a struggle for that new justice or as he called it, I don't know what. There's nothing about justice or anything but profit-grabbing and nothing more, but citizens as they see fit. This is why the HDSSB club supports this draft law amending the mandatory relationship law, which was handed down to the benches by the Croatian Labour Club, unfortunately not the ruling one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18713	Thank you very much. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first replica of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18714	Thank you. My colleague Grubišić is ashamed of how you can ask in this House what happens to the profits of Croatian banks. It's like swearing in a church. So... you shouldn't really be hearing it here. On the other hand, I've been convinced the whole time that I got into politics and so I kind of drew myself that I should be here not to explain to people why something can't, they know it themselves, but to do what has to be done. So if people in power explain it to me, it can't be done, I can even accept it if they know how to do better. But if they're just saying it can't be done and nothing behind it, then it's not the authority anyone needs but themselves. Our money spins and interest in terms of getting like you said drag out. We gave up all kinds of sovereignty, so does it take these last few pieces of the last few pieces of mosaics to give up because there's no courage to stand up and say it can't go on like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18715	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18716	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My sin, my sin, my too much sin that I have touched and dared here in the Croatian Parliament to say anything about commercial banks in the Republic of Croatia. However, the HDSSB club and MPs are allowed if the ruling cannot. If I have to be ashamed of myself as an opposition so we should just be ashamed of the ruling ones. Furthermore, let the president of Hungary Orban be ashamed, who was much sharper towards these banks in Hungary than those of them and in Croatia, so commercial than I am. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18717	Thank you, too. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18718	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic did not have a problem with the repayment of the loan due to the currency in which they are being calculated, the problem arose because of the extremely difficult economic situation in which Croatia is. And that payout problem exists when the credit is in francs and when the credit is in euro when the credit is in kunas and when the credit is in any other currency. It's not up to us to get into the currency of credit on us as a responsible authority to do everything we can to enable our citizens to pay off loans in whatever currency they're accounting for. And this government is working on it. While fellow Shuker is now laughing, the fact is that politics has made the current economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia very difficult over the past 8 years. But we did some things to make it easier to get the loan back. I mentioned the Consumer Credit Act, I will also mention the Executive Act, which raises the lower limit for the sale of real estate at the auction. Real estates can no longer be sold for nothing. So you can't say there's nothing to do. Finally, the results of the Orban government's measures in Hungary are best talked about by the statistics of Hungary in which inflation is one of the few countries in which our environment is worse than in Croatia. Study it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18719	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18720	Thank you very much. I must tell you that the difficulties of the citizens they have said you have raised those credits in francs or in kunas or in kunas has resulted in the creation of the Euro Association which sues me, I think it is a franc and not a kuna, so its name is Franak. So look at the statistical number of those who have fallen into financial difficulties and had a loan in Swiss francs and how many are in kunas or in euro. That's why I can really deny your replica. And as far as your measures are concerned, they are like that Rijeka cloth for the time of the Austrian-Hungarian settlements in 1868, where Croatia has really left its rags, and so your rags can't patch up as many holes as they've created and that's why citizens are in the situation as they are and how they're set on fire. It's a matter of fact that this is the law you've passed. And as for Hungary again and indeed the situation with them was given the number of those who, 600,000 who raised the loans and the certain inability to relocate yet... the funds to look for the little and help of the IMF which you exclude at all costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18721	Thank you very much. And the third replica is Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18722	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Grubisic, here's what I'd really like to say to you, but there's something else I'd like to say to you. The fact is that by ruling this bill they call demagogue and the law of populism and dangerous, but it's perfectly normal you know about them, and you probably assume it yourself. Why, for them, the workers, and most of them probably not the promoter, I don't say about parliamentary representatives, never lived on the mere salary of the workers, never experienced that with this salary she can't pay the director, that she has raised a loan to close those same directors and then interest, don't look so funny at fellow workers because none of them have their own company whose management rights are transferred to some law firm, so without a problem she comes to some bank or in some Croatian security, raises credit under favourable conditions, so she would naturally settle and the debts that in the blockade are the same company by Mr. Cacic, who is just a proud founder but here says she's not the owner, but she's used the benefits. 320,000 are unemployed who are plagued by the same torments and facts of people in Swiss, but those who can't even borrow any credit other than those on paper credits. And you see he spoke and you noticed well, but also his colleague, Grbin, was talking about the Executive Law, and today people are commenting, saying he's in the interest of the worker, so that one worker is going to ask for a payment from FINA that he didn't get his pay list when that same employer won't give it to him. And as it can be charged, says the legislator and says FINA bring in nice or initiate the procedure, a lawsuit that will last of course for years, and what happens, nothing. Because if that employer who doesn't want to give that one won't even report on the unpaid...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18723	Time respected MPs, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18724	And whoever fell into debt that employer is unfortunately also blocked so there's nothing to charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18725	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18726	Yes, colleagues, the answer to this dangerous law has been waiting almost 10 months, but I think this government, the prime minister, is having a very good time actually. They're dating a random state, with paradoxical Croats, with... almost shaking from Europe, diabetes, gangrene, Latin expressions, and I don't know what not, except what actually... By quoting the Bible, thank you for your help, so all but what should be done to get Croatia out of recession and crisis. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18727	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Does the Proposer's representative want the closing word? We exhausted the list of persons reported after the hearing. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the proposal when the conditions for voting are met. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, PZ No. 150, the debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposal from the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations is not accepted because of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament." By raising our hands, I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most 80 votes in favour, 11 against and 32 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18730	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a conclusion in the parliamentary procedure was sent on 1 March of this year and before we referred it to the procedure, we sought to collect data on the bankruptcy proceedings that were in progress at the time and gave you a full overview of the data we received from trade courts in the Republic of Croatia. I'll only single out the following of all the data. Therefore, in the beginning of 2012, 1393 bankruptcy proceedings were conducted in commercial courts, of which 172 lasted more than 5 years. The oldest bankruptcy procedure that was in progress was launched in 1996. Second, the fact that 21 700 workers were employed at 31.1.2012 in these companies that were then in the bankruptcy proceedings at the start of the bankruptcy proceedings. 2300, which according to the creditor's assessment is the unrefundable value of the company's assets in the bankruptcy of $11.5 billion, does not mean that this is also a market value, this is the estimated value during the bankruptcy process. We felt that the Croatian Parliament had to react to such facts and proposed 4 very short proposals for conclusions. You're probably, since you've been getting that material a long time ago and you forgot about it, so let me remind you what it's all about. In our first conclusion, we wrote that the Croatian Parliament wants to break the current illegal practice of implementation of bankruptcy and a rude violation of the provisions of the bankruptcy law in the obligation to initiate bankruptcy proceedings because these procedures are first destroyed by companies that are deliberately or directly managed to end up in liquidation, and workers are left out of work. Secondly, the Croatian Parliament tasks the Government to propose a solution for effective and responsible treatment of the state, in particular to companies without having the property of the underlying capital; b) to propose to the Croatian Parliament an amendment to the bankruptcy law aimed at a faster and efficient implementation of the bankruptcy procedure; c) to adopt a new regulation on criteria and method of accounting and payment of fees to the bankruptcy managers, which will also determine the incentive reward of the bankruptcy manager who carries out bankruptcy with the bankruptcy plan and the company to continue production and preserve jobs; d) to the Croatian Parliament to propose amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies, which will prescribe the obligation of payment of dedicated funds in the registration of the company to cover the costs of the bankruptcy proceedings. The third point of the conclusion was the Croatian Parliament tasked the Government to submit a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Free Legal Assistance to enable creditors in the bankruptcy procedure to use free legal aid. The fourth conclusion was also made by the Croatian Assembly of State Attorneys of the Republic of Croatia to submit a special report within 90 days on the conduct of all the authorities of the Croatian State Attorney's Office and on the criminal offences under Articles 282, 283, 626 and the bankruptcy law of Articles 4 and 39. Now I want to conclude that most of our proposals have been made in the meantime. I remind you that the State Attorney's Office with its report was recently discussed and that the Chapter – bankruptcy was a special subject and debates and reports. That the government, meanwhile, has referred to the procedure and the Parliament has adopted the amendments to the laws that we have mentioned in this proposal and that there has been a full turnover and a different regulatory regulation and a pre-departure settlement. The only thing the government did not accept then, and in the meantime, is that in the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the aid also extends to workers in bankruptcy proceedings as creditors who are then in the most difficult situation because they really do not have the money to conduct long-term complicated legal proceedings. The government is obviously still on the point that there is no need to intervene as part of the free legal aid. We don't agree with that, of course. Why did I read you the conclusions and later find that most of them were carried out? Because on March 1st, when we wrote and offered them to the Parliament without offering the solutions, we wanted to open a political debate and point out the problem we saw and offer the Government to offer its proposals solutions so as not to be in a position to reject the bill and declare them dangerous. I am extremely sorry that this document awaited a debate from March 1st to the present day because if we had discussed it in March it would probably have accelerated some legislative solutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in the present sense it might have been better and I repeat again that this is a classic example. The opposition proposals have been waiting for months on the agenda, when in other ways a problem is solved then the debate opens. I welcome all of those proposals that the Government made in the Croatian Parliament, some of them we supported, some of them not, but the fact that the subject of bankruptcy, pre-banking situations, over-run settlements and the different conduct of bankruptcy proceedings in the meantime has been better regulated than it was before that is the basic reason why I am pulling this proposal from the procedure because it is no longer necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18731	Thank you, Your Honor. Do the committee rapporteurs, the working bodies of the Parliament want? ... And I didn't hear, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. No, everything's fine. No, not a little late, but you said you were pulling out of the procedure you have the right to do that. ... Yeah, yeah, everything's fine. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. That's how we closed this agenda. There's no vote, no decision. Now we move to two I suggest the following points of the agenda, but I request your permission to bring together the debate on the 7th and 8th points of the agenda. I'll read it all. Therefore, the 7th is the proposal of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2012; the 8th is the Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2011. And in order not to unite, we should have put the reverse order, and I ask you to respect the proposal and to lead the debate unitedly on these two points. If there are no objections, I suggest we go according to the business order. Let's go first: - The report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2011 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 33. The law on official statistics. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. I : - Proposal for an annual implementation plan of the Croatian statistical activities for 2012 The proposed annual plan is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this document, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to 2 reading of the law shall apply, which are Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this proposal was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Did the rapporteurs... And you received reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take part? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. ... For discussion, there isn't, is there? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's gone. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm opening a debate in clubs. For the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18733	We've got the debate united.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18734	Yes, it is. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18735	Thank you very much. So here's actually very short. As we have a united discussion, what I have to say, which is quite vague to me in a certain way, so perhaps the motionary will be able to give us a more detailed answer about it. It is a question of the point that the proposal for an annual statistical implementation plan for 2012. This Regulation shall enter The law on official statistics says: "The draft is actually an annual plan that needs to be submitted by 31 May of the current year for next year." This also raises the question of whether this is a tipfeler, whether it might be a proposal for an annual statistical activity plan for 2013. Because it seems to me somehow that in 2012 already at its end, it is quite illogical to adopt before the end of the year something which is the plan of statistical activities. It is possible that, of course, it will be said that this corrects some mistake or failure that was made last year. If this annual plan was not adopted last year according to how it requires and demands the law, it would seem interesting to know how the State Statistics Office explains it. And if that failure was made last year, and some insight into what's happened over the past years shows that it obviously happened, then I certainly don't see any reason to, that the State Statistics Office is continuing to act like this. Because the Law on Official Statistics requires that we today should discuss the annual statistical activity plan for 2013. I think that this point is as dry as it may be, as difficult as it may be for those who are not skilled in statistics to understand it, I think it's really important, it's important because next year we will become a member of the EU and what is the only way in which Croatia exists in the acts and images that, which are created about a country and on the basis of which decisions are made in the EU, are its statistics. These statistics on each of the individual members are available at EUROSTAT. And whenever anyone wants to know anything, whether economic or social, any other kind of event or event in the EU country is actually looking at this statistics on EUROSTAT. And that is, in a certain way, the official legitimacy of each Member State. So I think that the State Statistics Institute is really an extremely important institution. And I think that these gaps are kind of signalling one of the unserious behaviors of the State Statistics Institute regardless of which government is not well. And therefore, I would also hope that Mr. Minister will explain when the State Statistics Institute intends to present its annual activity plan for next year. In which we could then see how and in what way and how the dynam will complete the final harmonisation and reporting of the statistical data of the Republic of Croatia according to EUROSTAT. And in this respect, they are extremely important, extremely important statistics that will need to be delivered by the State Statistics Institute at that time, including fiscal statistics among other things, include a number of data that are embedded in the acquis and according to which the EU intends to monitor the economic and financial situation of each member, i.e. to implement some of the measures that exist, and then the check exists and some criminal measures. I would therefore advocate in this debate and really want to say that I think it is necessary to work on the seriousness of the report delivered by the State Statistics Office as well as on legal deadlines because regarding the Annual Plan of Statistical Activities here we actually have one list of all the statistical research that the State Institute is doing or intending to do. However, I think that report deserves an introduction, an explanation in a language that is understandable to all of us. What is stated in this report and written understandablely is in fact only one narrow circle of people dealing with statistics. I think that, therefore, in future reports, the state institution should try a little bit more and make an introduction that would put the work of the state office in real space and time and allow us to look at these activities and not just present us with a dry list of statistical activities. What in a certain way illustrates the message that I'm trying to say is, let's say, one fact, which is that, for example, On the EUROSTAT website there are some Croatian statistics which are not available in Croatia itself. So, for example. If you look at the EUROSTAT website, you will find monthly data on unemployment rates. These monthly unemployment rates data do not co-ordinate the data that brothers in the Republic of Croatia have. and there is no such data in the Republic of Croatia. I understand that the EUROSTAT website also contains monthly data on unemployment rates that are derived from something called the Labour Force Survey, which are published quarterlyly but on the website of the website is monthly data. In fact, this shows me that there are some things in this entire DZS system that are reported according to EUROSTAT which are not available in domestic statistics and on the website of the state administration. I think it would be worth discussing and knowing why it is so because I also think it would be worth it if all those data that reach EUROSTAT were available here in Croatia because it would not be good for one type of statistics to be held for EUROSTAT and that another type of statistics is presented here in Croatia. Therefore, I would not be longer than I would also remind myself that as far as this report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan is concerned, Article 33. The law on official statistics says the deadline for submitting the report is 31 May of the current year for the previous year. The government delivered it to the Parliament on 6 September. If we have deadlines that we've arranged for ourselves that we've regulated by the laws, I think we should also respect them so that these discussions on the reports make sense. I think it's actually been that finding for a long time and repeating in the Parliament that reports are being discussed late to argue after a long time after the relevant year has already gone away. We will have more such reports these days, and I would simply advocate that the future practice is reduced, minimised as much as possible and that discussions on different reports including this one take place in those frameworks as defined by the law, because otherwise, discussions are only of a formal nature and do not have any major impact. We therefore expect the proposal of the Annual Plan of Statistical Activities for 2013 that we will have the opportunity to discuss this proposal before the end of 2012 at exactly the time it is now coming at the time of the budget and at the time of the adoption of the budget and at the time of the decision on the financial resources that will be available to the state institution because it is the only way we will actually be able to assess together whether this plan makes sense and whether the DZS can implement it. I think we all agree that there's no special point in discussing the work plans for a year that's already up and running. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18736	Thank you, too, Your Honor. SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Zlatko Komadin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18737	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. As far as these two reports are concerned, I assume we have a united debate and a third of this report regarding So about the list report, we'll do it later, okay? [[Intruder: We have a respected representative just proceed from two.]] I don't have that much to say except for a few words, I agree that, of course, the reports have to come early, and we've had our comments at the club. But you'll agree that it's a specific year, a year of government change when a lot of things are late until the government is set up, and I'll say that after I report on the census, which is why I'm late for the HDZ government who didn't do something right there, but I'll explain it later. As far as that goes, there's one of us. The statistical activity plan shall be delivered by May of and cannot be delivered in the current year for the following year for a simple reason. Mrs. Dalic, at least you were the finance minister, you know that the final proposal for any institution can be made after the adoption of the state budget. They simply have to comply with the final size of how much resources they have at their disposal. Otherwise, as far as the Institute is concerned, I personally think, no matter how dry the statisticians can be, what someone would say they're dealing with, what they say about statistics is that the exact sum of incorrect data is correct. But the fact is that they're doing a whole series of... research, almost 300ths of research, and I don't know how many activities almost 100ths... processing and you're as daily as I witness that we're using a whole series of precisely their data and quoting their data as a source whether we're here in the debates, whether any other institutions at any other level of their research, which is actually their activities. So finally, this plan that we are talking about, which is already for this year, has already brought a good part of it and achieved, in some ways we are in a position to appoint them and give them the agreement and the plan for next year, that is, this current year and as a report on the last year, so that as far as their reports are concerned, as well as their SDP Club plan will support it, and I will report later on the statistics on their most important research, and this research is a census in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18738	Thank you, Your Honor. HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18739	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So after these discussions on bill proposals, however, we return to some of the very important topics of life for Croatian society, regardless of all the comments on dry statistics, but it still reflects one state of society, and what the DZS is really doing can be freely said on behalf of the HNS Club and on the 2011 report, and also in this plan for the current year that is under way that we will support it. Of course, nothing is ever ideal or tends to move things forward, so not only in terms and compliance with EUROSTAT, or guidelines and compliance with standards in the European Union. What is important for the Croatian state at this time is a list of the population that is not yet finished and for which we also have a promise that the main part will be finished by the end of the year. Indeed, it is not possible to obtain outdated figures and analysis of the census that are very important, not only for the knowledge of the situation and the situation of the number of populations and all analyses needed for this, and it is also crucial for local elections for certain environments. Therefore, it was expected that the DZS, we believe in HNS, regardless of those justifiable topics and financial aspects, would make work fast enough and high enough, that is to raise the alarm that is needed in order to resolve the subject and remove it from the agenda. Because with this ongoing activity that they have and who do very well the census is extremely important not only politically but also one indicator and at the time of our entry into the European Union that our statistics and know how to do the most difficult, responsible job because if 17,000 people worked on the list, if 160 and some million kuna are invested, then these data must come out as soon as possible without alibi. What I would also like to point out on behalf of the HNS Club would be logical for the DZS to be perhaps either under the state administration or under the Ministry of Finance much more logically than under the Ministry of Science. One of those topics that the DZS deals with is all of those aspects and numbers that we get from the analysis of the tourist season in any government that is, and fortunately everyone can take on better numbers, but basically one problem that I want to point out in the name of the club, and I believe that the DZS will deal with in the next period, which is that we have non bingo numbers but that we really have what's real. Basic data sources in tourism are regular surveys conducted by several specialised institutions. First of all, these are DZS, Institute of Tourism, Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. The methodology for tourism statistics is based on the basic recommendations of the UN Statistical Office and the World Tourism Organisation and the Statistical Office of the European Union. All regular monthly and annual tourism research is conducted with a reporting method and published on the DZS website. So, for example. We also have a monthly report on tourist arrivals and nights, on arrivals and nights of tourists in houses and holiday apartments, non-commercial tourist traffic, travel agency reports, annual report on the transport of foreign vessels for entertainment and sport, reports on ports of nautical tourism, quarterly report by visitors of more important tourist sights and attractions, reports on... etc. These examples show that the results of the survey can be published monthly, quarterly or annually. Source of data on travel and tourist activities of the population of the Republic of Croatia The Institute of Tourism, which is mainly obtained by surveying the population of the Republic of Croatia aged 15 and over. The sample selection framework is data from the 2001 census, since we do not have the latest since last year. It is for the very reason that, because of the scope of research into various reports on tourism transport, more institutions are doing, there is the first obvious problem of showing the overall results. Namely, there are different databases and different methods of collecting these data. For this reason, data and results are often not comparable. This is something I would like to refer to the DZS on behalf of the HNS Club and finally and in terms of what is extremely important and crucial not only for the growth of gross products, not only for the growth of the tourism traffic report of the Ministry of Tourism and the Government but generally for the sake of the quality of the statistics we expect from the DZS that we no longer have questionnaires and that we no longer have bingo numbers in reporting on tourism traffic. We support one report and a proposal for a plan for this year on behalf of the HNS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18740	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of people who've been reported to discuss clubs. Representative of the Government Minister of Science, Education and Sports, respected Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18741	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. So very briefly, therefore, we can agree that the report came relatively late but it is interesting when from the former Government of the Ministry of Finance which set out the procedure how the implementation plan is to make comments on this. Now, look at the records of the past years and the report and the plan were in the parliamentary procedure and there were no elections. So it's very interesting how you make observations about something, the procedure that they actually brought into practice by whose procedure they were doing here. Therefore, I suggest you support this report and the plan as proposed, and the whole procedure is dependent on when a budget is made on the materials delivered to the DZS by the Ministry of Finance so that only then can the State Institute go into the making of all these materials that are present here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18742	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Two replicas have been reported for your address. Honorable representative Martina Dalic, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18743	Thank you very much. Well, that's right, Mr. Minister, I actually looked at that procedure, and I saw that the 2008 report, or the 2009 Annual Statistical Activity Plan, was adopted. After that, this discontinuity arose and this discontinuity was therefore present in 2009, 2010 and last year. And where this plan was actually presented in the current year. Although the previous three plans were presented in May. If that was the case, and it was, I also said in my opening statement I don't think it means that this practice should continue. So I don't think there's anything about this whole observation that doesn't explain the fact that that's how it was for the former government. The current government should work better, and the point of the whole problem is that these deadlines are highlighted in the law. If these deadlines cannot be respected for some reason, then I think it is necessary to change and initiate that these deadlines simply comply with reality. And I think to you now, regardless of the functions or dysfunctions I've done before, and if I'd met this question, I'd have thought so a year ago. Because I think it's kind of illogical and let me keep my words illogical for all of us here to discuss the Activity Plan for this year that's about to end. I think that fundamental illogicality remains.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18744	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you very much. Second replica, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18745	Thank you very much. I came forward for the simple reason why you can see Mr. Minister in the materials of the Economic Coordination, I think it was January or February 2010 just an observation of the financial plans and reports. Therefore, where it is simply said that all users of the state budget who are obliged to deliver their financial plans would have to deliver them from the moment of adoption of the budget by the end of the 1st month. Because any further sending to Parliament is losing its meaning and you will agree. What happens to some things happen to the last government, happens to this government, and it's probably going to happen to some future governments, and it's no reason that we simply don't all try to make documents that are going to adopt this House of Commons and that these documents make sense. Because if you adopt a financial report to anyone in the tenth month of the current year last year, it doesn't make sense. See also the amendments to the Law on the implementation of the state budget and you will see certain things agreeing in the internal structure then you will see that certain reports are also sent at the same time. Because someone has assured me in some years that it is impossible to go at the same time to report on the implementation of the budget and the State Audit Report, and you will agree with me that these are two reports that simply have to go together. But that's why it has to mature in time, but it's no excuse for us who were in that former government or you who were in the present or any future that someone had never done anything before. No one meant anything wrong with what this report just came in. It came for one reason or another, but it just has to be warned that it doesn't happen to us next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18746	The opposition is doing its part of the job. We conclude the debate on the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2011 and the proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activity of the Republic of Croatia in 2012. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2011. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2011 is hereby adopted". Please raise your hand so we can state who's to suggest a conclusion? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted with 91 votes in favour and 32 votes abstentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18765	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Associates. I'll just replace the paper. Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague. A report on the state and management of commodity stocks for 2011 shows that the operation of state and commodity stocks in the reporting year was brought forward in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act. Regulations applicable to the budget and budget beneficiaries and decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law states that strategic stockpiles are created to secure the basic supply at a time of war or direct threat and independence, unity and survival of the Republic of Croatia, and in the case of major natural disasters, and technical, technological and ecological disasters. Stock supplies can also be used to provide urgent assistance to other countries in case of disasters, humanitarian aid, and in case of participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. Stock stocks cannot be used to remove disturbances and instability on the market. Furthermore, the report shows that in the structure of the strategic commodity stocks in 2011, the highest value is 15 product types, i.e. 98% of the total supply, and that is: Euro diesel fuel 27%, tents, bags, Polish beds, blankets and sheets 14%, meat 11%, masculine 8%, whole-day dry meal 6%, meat, fish and other cans 6%. This structure of the strategic commodity supply shows that they account for a minimum percentage of cereals, wheat and corn 5% of the total stock value. The reason for this is known, and that is the pre-election division of wheat in the Đakovština affair. In fact, the former government for vote buying in 2010 divided 17 800 tonnes of wheat to farmers who stole it in Đakovština itself and thus took over the bankruptcy rights that would never achieve and impoverish the structure of the stocks for the then 20 million kuna, which at today's market prices would amount to 40 million kuna. So, then, the government knowingly donated wheat from other warehouses despite the fact that 2,000 wheat were stolen in Đakovština itself at the time, worth 2 million kunas and 1000 tonnes of corn at the time, at the value of 750 thousand kuna. We note that then the government additionally spent, 29 million kuna on budget reserves to pay workers' salaries Đakovština. Not getting into the justification of these former government moves remains to tell us that the stock stock balance lacks a substantial amount of grain to be obtained. In this year, the directorship acquired 6,200 tons of wheat, which is only a small part of the need. The quantities that are missing are certainly greater than the quantities that have been divided and disappeared in Đakovština, and it certainly takes more than 50 million kuna. This way, we point out the need for the Ministry of Finance to find the possibility to provide the necessary funds for the supply of wheat and corn in the positions of the department of supply because when an elementary disaster occurs, and the drought this year is in vain the good will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of us to assist in accordance with the law if there is not enough goods in the warehouses. We look forward to the fact that for the first time since there was a directorship under the 2002 Strategic Stocks Act, wheat has been obtained in public tender according to the Public Procurement Act and thus gave equal opportunity to all Croatian cereal buyers, although the directorship could obtain wheat on the basis of the government's decision as it has so far, i.e. as well as when he was the last organized ransom in 2004. We hope that the debate on this year's report will be in a different atmosphere, with the well-known fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. its Directorate, will also obtain the missing quantities of cereals in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18766	Thank you, Your Honor. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm closing the debate. A report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2011 with financial indicators will be voted when the conditions are met. We're going forward on the agenda. Report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2011 with financial indicators. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2011 with financial indicators is accepted". Please, who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion accepted by 113 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 9 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18769	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's just a few words. I said before that the census is probably the most important statistical research that the DZS does and doesn't do every time it does it once in 10 years, and maybe this is the last one that did it because as it stands, we might have an electronic story in the future and we'll get that data differently because a series of data already exists. Well, there's not all of them. What Mr. Cain said about water heaters or toilets may not exist in some bases except for the census. But I answered on behalf of the club to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that the list is not about the list, but to use it. It's been a year and a half since the census ended, and we have almost nothing but the population seems to me. We don't have another one. Why am I saying that? This has now become important and very urgent, among other things, because we need to have data regarding taking categories of national minorities to determine percentages in cities, municipalities and counties. And for what? Because of the local and regional elections that follow us, we had something similar to that mentioned in the Law on Election Lists and the register of voters as will be mentioned in these subsequent laws that will be included in the agenda, it is the Law on the Selection of Mayors, Mayors and Commissioners and Representatives as well as the self-governments that follow us now. Because it would not be good for us to enter and we will obviously enter that period six months before the elections when some practice of European countries requires that it is not touched by any electoral legislation or matter that regulates it. That's why it's very important for the state institute to make additional efforts to process at least the part that's related to these further things, among other things, to what I mentioned. I don't mean to say it's their fault they didn't do it, but it's somebody's fault. Of course it's always the government's fault, that's how it was. As far as I'm aware, they had secured funds in the budget and last time but could not hire additional people for what is in force as a ban on employment in state bodies and institutions. Actually, we tie our hands and work... about it. As far as you know, I've followed the same thing from the media they've only the other day hired some 400 people who've caught up with these tons of paper that have been stored somewhere in Karlovac or out there in Jastrebarska, that in Jastrebarska. As far as I'm concerned, knowing their methodology of work, or just before we adopted their report and the work plan, they have a continuous programme that they are carrying out and are working on a plan of statistical research. So what the population list needs to say is what the new forces that have to engage are, as the witnesses themselves, you've been, are, are, uh, listers, controllers, and all of the team that did this as they now do next to their employees are hired additional employees who have to put all of this together into electronic computers so that it can be processed afterwards. So here's SDP's appeal not to give orders through the Parliament but not to be this criticism that was on the report and the plan not to repeat this data processing because I think now is the time if they have any problems or something to say about how things are going because the deadlines are going. We only have two more practical months for these results to see the light of day because, as I said, they are necessary for this part of the selection of people by key under the Constitutional Law on National Minorities. On the side of the SDP club, we'll accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18770	Thank you very much, SDP Club and Honorable Representative Zlatko Komadini. We invite the club of HNS in the Croatian Assembly and respected Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18771	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. We're joining the appeal to you, Mr. Komadin and the HNS Club, but we'd like to say a little bit about maybe the history of collecting statistics. Here in a few days, the 31st lipopad will be 155 years from the first general census in the Habsburg monarchy. By 1857, the statistics of the population as the oldest branch of statistics were limited to the collection of democratic data for fiscal or military purposes. The lists are made for the purpose of determining the obligations of the most common tax to the king, the church, the chamber, the feudal or some third party. While he's, for example. The objective of the so-called The 1787 Josephine census was the recording of a population capable of the military. It is only by instructions from the 1857 census that I quote "the general list has the task of finding out and transparently illustrating the state of the country's population". This, in our opinion, should and should be the aim of the census, and they are also inexhaustibly hot data for scientists of different scientific areas. They can read not only demographic data but also a number of other researchers in the social and humanistic direction of interesting data. In addition to general data on the number, population density, population density, ethnic, national and religious composition of the population from them, we also learn about the degree of literacy of houses but also statistics on the age of the population, economic and cultural development of a particular area and of course much, much more. They also read the demographic movements of the population in relation to the born and dead, the number of working people, and the clear attitude of the male-female population. The 2011 census results will show whether the 2001 trends in Croatia are continuing in terms of education and demographic structures, defeating and worrying about each country. We are aware that there is a huge and demanding job in front of the DZS and that the construction that needs to be processed is located in more than 2500 long meters of shelves and weighs more than 80 tonnes and that only basic lists of forms to be processed have about 7 million, but we look forward to the results of the census finally being published. We are aware of both the material and the administrative constraints, and we have not been able to follow the publication and the results of the competitions for the employees on the project. Namely, the media transmitted, be careful with this, that the state statistical office received 389 applications from unemployed people who meet the tender conditions, or 7 less than the ad was requested. The statistics that produce the census are also accurate as such inexhaustible data and problem issues. But what's most important for politics is what with all that data to do, what with the analyses that show certain trends to do. The real question we need to ask is not when the census results are over, although we believe Minister Bauku who today said that soon, in December of this year, he will probably see the light of day, but the question is what we as politicians will do with them, how we will react to the results. We in HNS hope that we will be able to answer this question and therefore, in anticipation of the recent final result, we accept a report on the jobs and resources spent on the list of the population of the Republic of Croatia in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18772	Thank you, too. This has exhausted the list of registered clubs and representatives for discussion on this subject, the 2011 report on completed jobs and funds for the list of population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. Report on the work and resources spent in 2011 for the census of the population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2011 Report on jobs and resources spent on the census of the population, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia is accepted". May we please state who's behind the conclusion proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by the majority of 111 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 10 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18775	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I would like to convey to you the greetings of Mr. Zlatko Matesha, who, as a member of the Executive Board of European Olympic Committees, had certain heart problems while staying in Andorra and had to undergo surgery in Barcelona on 29 last month. He is currently in Zagreb, feeling well and will be physically present at the election session of the Croatian Olympic Committee Assembly on 12 November as the sole presidential candidate. I hope that in the future, of course, he will present this report to you. The material you have obtained and which you have on you can be observed through two aspects, through software and through financial means. By observing it from the programme aspect we find that the Croatian Olympic Committee has 85 members, of which 38 Olympic, 32 Neolimpic Sports Federation, 2 associated, 13 associations and institutions, and 20 county sports communities and the City of Zagreb. During 2011, our athletes won 415 medals at world and European championships, world European Cups and competitions in younger age categories. At the same time, there were 326 seats from 4th to 8th places. Under the law on sport, the Croatian Olympic Committee issues a public document called sportsman categorization. During 2011 the Croatian Olympic Committee issued them 3614. The Croatian Olympic Committee also cares about sports at local level through a series of development programs, I will mention some, from sports school to Olympic games, active community, Olympic children's kindergarten festival as the original programme of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which included 365 kindergartens with 13 899 participants in 43 cities, which means children. Then we have joint programmes with the Croatian lottery, a Croatian Olympic day in which, according to written reports, 68,000 citizens participated throughout Croatia and the International Olympic Day in which 500 children from Zagreb and Samobor participated for the first time. During 2011, Croatian athletes participated in a number of multisport events such as winter universities, winter and summer European Olympic youth festivals, summer universities. We also dealt before the Olympic year as the most important project that followed the year after which 79 athletes participated, of which 33 registered, 30 potential As and 16 potential Bs. We were also in the second year of the winter Olympic Games project... in which 21 athletes participated and led the preparations for the 2012 Olympic youth games. What we are particularly pleased with, I would say and proud is five development programs for athletes, the first of which starts from the age of 12. It is a programme 1 or support programme for athletes of younger age categories in which 90 athletes participated in 28 sports, an individual programme of special youth care involving 87 athletes in individual sports and 55 in team sports. A programme of quality athletes involving 58 of them in 14 sports, a programme to support athletes in front of an Olympic development programme with 8 athletes and a team sports support programme in the pre-Olympic qualification cycle with 44 athletes. A total of 342 athletes, if we add these Olympic candidates 79, so over 420 and what is especially worth pointing out that all athletes from today's perspective when they took part in the Olympic Games were at least in one part of their sports careers in one of the HOO development programmes. We deal with professions and coaches, of course. HOO has 5 development programs for coaches top-of-the-line in which 16 coaches participated, then coaches for the development of team sports, the quality coaches were 27, coaches of younger age categories 22 and coaches for the development of individual sport 10, a total of 77. And together with athletes, I would like to point out that 600 people were in continuity in the function of HOO through various types of funding and monitoring of its programming activities. We are engaged in daily joint programming tasks such as general affairs, information, marketing, information, publishing, Olympic solidarity, and we are particularly happy that we have come to understand the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia with which we have an agreement and which has hired 21 athletes as an active military person. Of these 21 athletes who were active military personnel, 14 took part in the Olympic Games. There are 58 employees in HoO, 3 master of science, 25 persons with high professional training, which means almost 50% of the employees are highly educated. What I would also particularly like to point out is that the operations of HOO are controlled by a whole series of control mechanisms such as the Supervisory Board, Internal Audit, Commercial Audit, State Audit and ultimately by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, noting that the findings of the Commercial Audit and the State Audit are unconditional. That means they have the best rating for their business. The financial operations of HOO say that our revenues amounted to $125.3 million, that our expenditures amounted to $120.2 million, and that in the financial result says that we had 5 million more revenue than expenditure. Since in 2011, we transferred 11.3 million kuna surpluses during the year 2011, we had 16.4 million kunas of surplus funds allocated to the commitments of 1.7 million kuna during 2011, then committed 5.7 million kunas of which relate to advances and advances intended for preparations and accommodation for the London Olympic Games and an increase in basic capital for Sports Television by 1.5 million kuna. So the actual surplus was 8 million 19 thousand 959 kuna, and this above-mentioned surplus of HOO revenue will be spent on programme commitments in 2012 by the Assembly decision of 27.12.2011 in line with the programme and budget of the HOO. In the course of the report, you can see the tables showing how much money each member of the HOO has received from regular sources of funding, but also from these development programmes. On page 2. 52. we are talking about the Croatian Olympic Academy, which is the founder of the HoO which is involved in the education of judges of international categories, courses, seminars and consultations, international expert meetings and in the conclusion that the Croatian Olympic Academy in 2011 implemented 165 programme actions involving 8 thousand 355 persons. And finally, sports television, based on the instructions of the Conference of the International Olympic Committee in Denmark, which recommended the development of digital and TV media based on failed attempts to launch a sports or 3rd channel with HRT, opened a tender for the concession of a specialized sports channel and with the fact that there was not enough domestic sport on television, some sports at 15-years old, HOO was as the first at that time and the only HoO was the founder and sole owner of the sports television that is working today. She started her broadcast on April 4, 2011 and is really in the position of promoting sports, not only in Croatia but in sport at all. Here, I thank you for your attention. I hope I wasn't too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18776	Thank you, too, dear secretary of HOO. Do workers want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Let's discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is HDZ and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18777	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, so allow me before the debate to direct my fellow Mateshi's good wishes for a quick recovery and to quickly find myself back in the saddle of the Olympic Committee. I'm sorry there's no minister here because this is a report where maybe it's an opportunity to talk about those beautiful sports sides because it's not just sports when it's written in black chronicles. I think the sports successes of Croatian athletes blow up everyone's soul and heart and we all look forward to it and we all look forward to it in principle through these sports successes we see that sport is still something beautiful, something wonderful. After all, the friendships that are acquired through sport are something that is permanent and which is good and therefore sport through this report should be spoken of on the other side of the medal as something noble and something good. However, when I talk about this report, I would like to highlight a few of the things that I do not consider a HOO to be someone as well as units of local self-government, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia should make a little more contribution that through some legislative frameworks is the same through support of financial resources. Because when we look at the financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the revenues of 125 million kuna, and at the same time, when we add together the total revenues of the communities of sports associations or the sports associations of certain cities, then we would see how little that is, and at the same time, how much money compared to the Olympic Committee, and the only question is whether these funds go for what is intended, and that is the development of primarily younger age categories and school sports clubs, or are used to finance senior clubs. Because I think that's the biggest question, the biggest question when it comes to the community of sports associations. Because what is missing for Croatia at the moment when the whole world has connected sports and the economy, when big money turns into sports, when practically great talent and good athletes buys until you've stood up for those who have more money. Then one elemental question arises, I say it is not the Croatian Olympic Committee but the matter and the unit of local self-government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which are the so-called sports, school sports clubs. Because we who are young, so to speak younger, remember those high school and college competitions in the City of Zagreb when, say, basketball or handball finals were filled with matchboxes and from these masses of great athletes were actually selected by those who went to top sports and who later developed, followed all the great results they had. But there's one question that I've been asking myself for many years now, and I think it's time to ask this tall house, and that's all those students, young people who graduate from the Faculty of Physical Culture. For these young people, and that college is not easy at all, to understand, it's extremely difficult, it's extremely demanding. However, colleagues and colleagues look at how many of these young people who have graduated from that university today simply stand on the market because they can't get a job. I say that's not a question for the Croatian Olympic Committee, it's when we look at the definition of roof association, but it's a question for all of us, for the government, for the MPs, all together, and it's a fundamental question why these young people have been schooling for 5 years, why I won't say, it would be rude to say a waste of time, and in the end I can't even find a job for what they've been educated for. It's a question for all of us. And finally, sport and economy. The sports Olympic center of Bellolasica. Probably the insatiable dream of many athletes, probably politicians, and I am among them, to be honest. Definitely if Croatia can offer this as much as it can in tourism, then it can offer a lot in sports tourism. And Bjellolasica is a safe place where many worlds, I when I was president of the Croatian basketball union, then the basketball team was preparing on Bjellolasica, did not walk around. And all the athletes who came there were thrilled with the terms and with everything, unfortunately failed to build a hall, failed to build a pool. I said sin and while I was in politics, actually the minister that would not turn out to be someone else, but the topic of thinking, the topic of discussion, because I simply say if many flock in Croatia to enjoy summer, then I think we have room for sports camps and that we are certainly more acceptable and better for it than Turkey or anyone else. And there is no need for our athletes to go to either Slovenia, or Turkey, or anywhere else but a simple space where they can prepare, and when there are no commercial content in those things, so to speak for minutes without light, then our young athletes can also prepare there under some more favourable conditions. And finally, to praise certainly sports television, I just sincerely hope that soon it will be a better program, not what we're looking at. The HDZ Club will also support this Croatian Olympic Committee report. I am sorry that my colleague Jovanovic, Minister Jovanovic, left because I had some questions, just as a sportsman, not as a politician. Because I think when it comes to sports that there must be a national consensus there, too, because everything that happens negatively in sports and sports courts is minimal compared to what beautiful sport provides to thousands of young people. Tomorrow we'll have, I mean two points of debate over the other, there's no better instrument, literally an instrument to fight addiction for young people than sports, believe me. And colleagues and colleagues all of us had kids at this age or that age, and simply if we have some tools in our hands, then we need to use it. Tomorrow I think you applied a lot of them for a drug debate and tomorrow will probably be a lot of politicizing. But I repeat school sports clubs, sports, and there's a negative that we understand each other, doping drugs in sports, and it's being fought by sports organisations. But it's minor compared to how much of this positive sport gives young people. It gives them first and foremost to understand in this sport contest where their opportunities are and that in principle in life always goes forward the one who is better, that is both in business and in everything. So, they get one healthy habit, and through that body load and everything, through the fight, so the strongest anti-drug instrument, let's not talk declaratively, but let's give every school a school sports club, hire 300, 400, 500 kids to deal with sports at school. Let's not let the school halls occupy us recreationals from 9:00 p.m., let's let the kids train till 11:00, the recreationals go after 11:00. Because it's not good for children 11 or 12 to have training at 11 o'clock in the evening. So this is a message first of all to us, not to you from the Croatian Olympic Committee, and you can weigh it in some other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18778	Thank you, Your Honor. At your display that was drinking, you said, four replicas have been reported. First up, first up, first up, first up, first up, first up, first up, first up, first up, first up, first up, first
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18779	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we're almost in some kind of sports term. If there was a game scheduled now, I believe there would be more colleagues in the assembly and I believe that there would be more interest at least in cheerleading if they didn't already discuss sports. My fellow Shuker, you have well noticed, I am sorry that there is no Minister Jovanovic. I also expressed regret on the board that the Croatian Olympic Committee did not succeed in its intention, which was that the top athletes get in our law and what they have in the laws of some other countries in the environment, and it was 50 top athletes who in this way would all those who did not ensure their existence, and here we are not talking about top athletes or football players, but about everyone else in order to be financially taken care of because when we look forward to their results and when we look forward to their results, I think we are obliged to show them this in such a way. A fellow Shuker well said there will be two topics about addiction tomorrow morning, so I would like to commend the Croatian Olympic Committee in this context. Namely, they care about the smallest so-called. With children's kindergartens, which is extremely exciting for every parent and for every child, so I will only provide the information that 13899 children from 365 kindergartens participated in the Olympics. These are children who have been socialized and acquired some habits since the smallest days, and of course their parents are well - minded because at that age, they feel that their youngsters must be the best in the discipline in which they compete. Another commendation to the Croatian Olympic Committee that it is, of course, related to the Olympic cycle with the Olympics, which is that the historical result was achieved in financial indicators so that the most money was managed to collect, and here it is, in some ways, a congratulation. And I'll finish, Mr. President, I see my time is up. I would just like to draw attention to the need to ask that a question should be asked about the criteria and methods of funding or the allocation of funds for the growing needs of as many as 85 alliances if I am right, should see if the Croatian Olympic Committee can do it all on its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18780	Next replica, I apologize for the reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18781	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues Glavak when you picked up the replica board I knew you'd start this issue of concern for athletes who are... active athletes, unfortunately very hard to earn for a million reasons. Many of them unfortunately found themselves on the sidelines of society for this or that reason, sometimes top athletes do not all athletes have million contracts and not all athletes have secured themselves for life through active sports activities. Unfortunately, many of them had very few other than scholarships and some small contracts nothing, however, through the practice of top-notch sports and it is an additional danger. And this may be the biggest problem dealing with top-notch sports in Croatia unlike America and some other countries where it is clearly defined that schools and sports must go parallel to each other and simply some top-notch athletes in America can't do sports in college unless they take exams. Unfortunately, in our case, many top sportsmen leave school without completing any school, many unfortunately suffer injuries, many end their careers, and simply have nothing to live on. The conquerors of the Olympic medals, they were national heroes, the nation was proud of them, and then at times when they need help, these people don't expect any charity, they might even be expected to be given a job where they can do what they know because they don't unfortunately meet legal requirements, which is school and at times when they get to a certain age to get a pension. Many have received a pension in one way or another, but I think athletes should get it, and in the end, it is a mistake of all previous governments that we could not find a political consensus to solve the problem of top athletes. I repeat, not everyone had millions of contracts, unfortunately, the largest number of Olympic medal winners and today's trophy sports where relatively good contracts are. Today everyone in basketball and handball and water polo good contracts for top athletes. Unfortunately, 20 years ago, these were very weak contracts, and the players are now on the sidelines of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18782	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18783	Thank you very much. Here I was encouraged by Mr. Shuker's colleague Shucker in his discussion to actually ask one question and a few more clues about what I wanted to say about the discussion, but I see that the debate is sort of on the ground in general, so I didn't answer for the discussion. Namely, the question about HOC Bjelolasica and the manager's plans I think is that the Croatian Olympic Committee is directly in charge. What's going to happen about that since we know that camp sports camp is actually closed at this point. It was supposed to be some kind of camp polygon to prepare our athletes especially for altitude preparation. And in the context of this, I would like to know whether the Croatian Olympic Committee is initiating certain projects related to Olympic sports, where we have shown and proved that we have the world's best athletes. So I'm interested in the fact that we've specifically built handball sports halls, which could possibly have been built 30, 40 throughout Croatia and not 4,5 grand ones as they are, are there any strategy in which you, as the Croatian Olympic Committee, simply highlight these very sports where we're most excellent and where we don't have enough infrastructures like specifically water polo, so we don't have enough quality indoor swimming pools in Croatia, then the shooters know that they don't have enough room to prepare in the shootings. We have the Kostelic brothers, or now only Ivica Kostelic, in Croatia we do not have any alpine trail to prepare our skiers. Apart from Zagreb, which I don't think can definitely be placed in the rank of such sports centres that could... so I wonder if in this sense the Croatian Olympic Committee is doing anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18784	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18785	Well, it's hard to answer my colleague Đuric, she was actually arguing with her colleague, Chop, but let me just say that part of the replica relating to the Bjellolasic Olympic Centre. He is an Olympic centre and is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Olympic Committee but the Ministry of Science. So there's the same story with a gym like this, like that, with the stands, with everything, although up there needs... a sports hall and nothing else. The sports hall for viewers is down in Ogulin where there are viewers. So there were some illusions. And as for these handball halls to close the story once, look at fellow Đurić everywhere in Europe why they serve such halls, concept halls and project halls are also designed to perform a series of economic, cultural, concert events. So whoever runs that hall should fill that hall, and now that it is made and not loaded, it is the second pair of shoes. But you need to go into the world and see, anywhere in Europe, how these halls work, what in one Zurich means, the same hall as in Zagreb. All cultural, economic events bigger if today Pavarotti sings in two days' time by hockey players and these sports halls can only be cost-effective in such a way, in no other way. Go to America and you'll see, there's hockey playing today, there's basketball tomorrow, there's a concert the day after tomorrow. Only objects can be used in such a way. If the Zagreb arena opens the door for one megaproject once in 15 days, the normal thing is that it is invaluable. It's the same story with the Varazdin Hall, and it's about Split that I'm not talking. Osijek and Poreč are different stories, they are used in everyday teaching, so they have a completely different story. But I'm saying, and those sports halls of ours to be used for what they are and how they're designed, they wouldn't have a problem, because I'm saying for sure there's a series in Zagreb, starting with congress tourism. I'll only tell you that I was at the opportunity when she was the 10th anniversary of the Cataluna-Croatian game in Barcelona that she was in the sports hall where we played match with Cataluna in front of 25,000 people, the day before that was congressor Italian... Ten thousand people.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18786	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18787	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Shuker, you said of the White-haired woman as an unfathomable dream. I think we share an opinion here, i.e. that I can say on behalf of everyone that we are truly truly sorry that what happened there at our Olympic center, but we can argue that Bjellolass was constantly receiving large funds from the state register and they were constantly working with a minus, so it never achieved. This part I can understand in this part of the snow shortage, etc., I have personally been there often. However, we have other centres in the Republic of Croatia, and I think that the real funds should be expanded and decentralised, not only to go to such large centres, but especially to the continental part not only through continental tourism, but above all through health, recreation and, of course, sports tourism, and I hope that soon we will have the preparation of our athletes in our continental part of the Republic of Croatia, not that we all go to Slovenia or elsewhere for preparation, and we really have enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18788	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18789	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before I begin the replica, I would first of all like to express my wish for Mr. Matesha's quick recovery to return to Croatia. Namely fellow Shuker, every time we discuss the Croatian Olympic Committee's report, we always seek the same topics, so how to solve the problem is not a problem but the worthy athletes how to reward them, how to do so after their careers, the world career in which they illuminated the face of Croatia were our pride and pride, to be adequate and to say materially secure and rewarded. I would not talk about Bjelalasica, in fact, in most of your presentations I fully agree with you, and we would really have to, as you have already said, agree once, make one political and every other consensus that we have in Croatia too, or as counterpart Daruvar or some other destination said, so that athletes can come to full preparation. So I say complete or complete, that's understood. Let's just say it always hurts to see our football players leave, a team in Châtez, Slovenia to prepare. Well, the climate is exactly the same, and the climate is the same, and I don't know what it provides more than it would provide Daruvarian spas or some kind of Bizovac. Here they were in Osijek, so they played great, they were so talented and motivated that it was a fantasy. Football players, I'm talking about a team against Wales. And as for the ski trails so clearly we can't, our biggest mountain is 1650m Mrs Turina, you know, you're skiing on Platka, but one Kostelic cannot achieve top form on Platka or on Sljemen etc. You know why you go to the white world at 3,000 feet high, 2500, where there are different paths, different conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18790	Thank you, Your Honor. And the fifth replica, the respected representative Ana Komaric Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18791	Thank you, Mr. President. So here at the end of today we have a truly one report in front of us that I think we can all agree absolutely on and I don't think there's a person here who's not proud of the work and the work and the results our athletes are doing and I can partly agree with my colleague Schuker when he's talking about school sports. School sport is something that we have to think very much about, something that has not come to life and something that is not being implemented in the Republic of Croatia, and the fact is that it is the best prevention of addiction, any kind of addiction and absolutely agree with you, but the problem in the Republic of Croatia is that you actually have the same children playing for clubs and schools. And there's the problem. So, we didn't give up sports, we didn't introduce new kids, but actually the same same kids do sports at the club as at school, they actually play for school. So we need to find a way to actually recognize how to introduce kids who don't play in clubs to get our kids into sports. Because that's our problem. There have been speeches here and about kindergartens, what I have to sort of object to is the fact that it's a really great project, so the Olympics of kindergartens is a phenomenal project, but it stops at the county level. So you support it is a fact but I miss the final part, and that is to bring it after it is maintained primarily at the county level to lead it to the state level. I know it costs something, but the fact is that that's how we popularize sports in those smallest age groups, and that's our kids in kindergartens. And I think that's where you'd have to find a way to lift another step from county to state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18792	Thank you, too, Your Honor. And a response to the replica of the esteemed representative John Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18793	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleagues, we all agree here when it comes to the fact that there are no political options, but we just agree. However, when we talk about sports in schools and school sports societies, then this mass is starting with some convenient dates in a city being the first competition among classes and between certain ages and then you get this mass. And then out of that mass, people who have an eye for athletes pull out the best, drag them into some kind of immediate process, do the school's team, and then do some extra competitions and from those kids who do sport one part of them and the better and worse end up in a sports club in some kind of youth drive. And that's the point of it. And be assured that for the day of the city there would be a final, which I know is exactly what sports are for certain age limits so that it would be a great thing for the kids one day finale among the classes in one school, and in a week, let's say the finale among schools if there were more schools. I purposely mentioned the high school championship of the City of Zagreb, sometimes you couldn't enter the matchbox when there was a final in basketball, the handball was simply full. And it was a real school sport and believe that in the final games, I'm talking about basketball, he hasn't played practically any first-class players. The Zagreb hackers and we around Zagreb played what we were and we played it simply because they could not participate in these competitions because on Saturday they had a process in their club and they practically played this second one. But what's the real problem is that some school principals privatized school gyms. And that's true, and we just have to tell that truth. I'm... My kids are bigger today, but the horrors hit me when I picked my son up at 11:00, half 12 p.m. from practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are parents who didn't have a car and who had kids like that wet in the middle of the winter at 12. They dragged them home for 15, 20 minutes. And that's what's not good. So, and that's why I'm sorry there wasn't a minister here. Not because I object to him, but to support him to do it together, no matter what sports halls are in the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, but there are some things if I can't do it down there, then we need to hit the top for good because of this topic that we're going to discuss tomorrow. That's exactly why.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18794	The opposition is needed in democracy absolutely. We've exhausted the list of people who've been reported to debate the clubs. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. A respected representative, Zlatko Komadin, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18795	Well, here's a few words, though, and I've been doing some sports, and I've been doing some other activities about sports, so I'd say a few words based on what I've seen happening, and I've been offered these discussions about the Whitelight Olympic Centre and some more. One of my appeals first for the Whitelight Olympic Center. I'm not going in, and of course he's beautiful, and I've been there and I've been and I've been, and there's a lot of people who've been and they've stayed, even though there's a lot of dubious things about him and there's a lot of doubt about whether or not he should have been built there at all. I believe that you know a lot of people, given the climate situation, because a lot of people out there were hoping for some snow they'd never be there because it's open to the south, the climate there is known. But now that it's done, unfortunately, it's still burned down. Is that the main object? There's something going on that I'd like to appeal to you from the Olympic Committee, which is that fate if that facility and that part of the company collapses there doesn't have to be tied up and ruined by what doesn't have to be ruined, which is the Hawk Hotel in Bego's division, which also belongs to the Olympic Committee. In fact, this hotel is a positive business and that is, it could do business not to share the fate of the entire legal person. And now it is simply my appeal to legally single him out as a legal entity he can do business, especially because he is in one small place in the municipality of Mrkopalj, which is otherwise a humble municipality in an even more modest mountain Kotar in terms of population and even living conditions. So there's every job really more than necessary. And as for the preparation of athletes, of course everyone praises their end. Croatia is full of beautiful places anywhere from Slavonia, Međimurje, Dalmatia, but of course I will now mention little Gorski Kotar just as I mentioned earlier. The mountain cotter is the natural middle of the forest, one of the largest, if not the green heart of Croatia. In Gorski kotar are the most populated place in Croatia are Delnice, the most populated settlement is just Begov's distance in the municipality of Mrkolj. They're at the highest altitudes. Why am I saying that? It is precisely because of the preparation of athletes, and I remember that we as well as the county, but with cooperation, unfortunately, not too big with state institutions have invested a lot of resources with municipalities just in sports facilities and in raising sports infrastructure to create conditions for excursion, recreational tourism and also for the preparation of athletes. Because this area is ideal because of the climate story and because of the air, whether in winter, whether in summer, so there are both renovated and halls and made and ice halls, and capacities afterwards, and accommodation by private entrepreneurs etc. So you'd appeal to our athletes in that part of the root of that resource. Personally, I think of our sport in this economic situation, you need to rematerialize quite a bit, so to speak. Namely, you should pay attention to working with youthful suitable, with sports schools, with school sports alliances, systems to be massaged, and professional part of the story to release, what is said, the market. Because we now have a situation where the public sector practically takes care of professional clubs, you've had the last situation with Hajduk, so you've had a chance to see what it looks like, what it's going to end up like, since then. It's okay for the facilities, the buildings to be taken care of by the public sector, mostly by the city stadium, etc. Which in that case is not exactly the case, it seems to me that I mentioned earlier, in Split, I don't think so. As far as the arena is concerned, I have to confess by my court to building the arena in Croatia, so let's say crime, no matter what I hear your discussion. Does Croatia need one arena and that if? I think in Croatia to build in Split, in Zagreb, in Osijek there were still objects that you yourself know that one Croatia of 4.5 million with this economy and with this market, let's say with this consummation of viewers of any event, whether the concert, whether sports, will once be filled, or 5 times, 10, 15 thousand people. I don't think we needed this megalomania in one poor country at all, not for any handball championship that lasted as long as it did, and behind that we now have litigation with our private partners, so they're looking for their claims in view of these public-private partnerships contracts as they were built. But now there's what's there, now you have to try to fill them. Because look, you have, not only do you have Vienna, you have Budapest, you have Italian cities, various manifestations, concerts, so people what the problem is to go a couple, 100 kilometers, I mean to fill the Croatian halls 365 days a year, I don't know who will do it. Here, on my side so much, that's why I didn't want on behalf of the club, Mr. President, because this is more of a debate of nature, individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18796	We wanted you to represent the SDP club. And in this debate, I have reported a replica of the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18797	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I agree with colleague Komadin about the arenas, about the state of sports, clubs, kill the public sector funding. On the one hand, he had a report from the Croatian Olympic Committee, which has produced exceptional results, that is to say, helped our athletes produce top results, seeing how much land we are, what conditions we have, and indeed it is absolutely commendable. However, what is crucial, so I would be able to reach out and replicate my colleague Komadini, if we had a problem with sports where at this point, indeed, the question is whether they can at all, or athletes, or certain clubs end their competitions in this season, given the situation in sport. On the other hand, we have a situation that we don't have enough halls for the children to have a school sport, so then we talk about cadets, juniors, those younger categories at all, and then I have to get ahead of myself and in Split, how everyone mentions the ends and cities from where they come from, we in Split have a situation that because of recreational sports younger people don't have the opportunity to train in public institutions and sports facilities. In order for the public institution to have income, do these pay unlike children who are not able to, or school sports cannot because the halls also, as Mr Shuker, a colleague, the director, well privatise it. Therefore, it is also a lot of work for the Croatian Olympic Committee to help improve ideas and suggestions to put the system on its feet, literally and agree to start with school sport, while the amateur sport and professional sport, as my colleague Komadina said, also separate. It is one of the tasks that I also expect from the Croatian Olympic Committee to set up this initiative because it knows best and communicates with all sports associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-23-0.u18798	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the log-in list. Could be a representative of the Croatian Olympic, no need. I am concluding the debate on the programme financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2011. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We conclude today's work of the Croatian Assembly in plenary session. We're scheduled to proceed tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. I suggest that you grant me until we bring together the debate of the first and second points tomorrow, this is the report on the implementation of the national strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for the period and a proposal for a national strategy to combat drug abuse. Tomorrow we'd unite strategy and report. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. Have a nice evening. Cheers. Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2011. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2011 is hereby adopted". I'd like to make a statement on the proposed conclusion. Who's in? Do you mind? Is there someone with abstention? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 123 votes in favour. Thank you very much.
