ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The government in the Parliament is referring to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. Let me explain in the shortest lines the reasons and background of the changes themselves. We are primarily working on amendments and additions in the context of Directive 122, which was adopted at European Union level in 2009 with a delayed deadline for transposition into the national legislation of the Member States in a way that expired in 2011. In 2011, then, Member States transposed this Directive into their national legislation. It is a consumer protection directive in relation to certain aspects of the contract on the right to limited use, i.e. the time-limited share, on long-term holiday products, resale as well as the replacement. That directive primarily focuses on the tourism sector, i.e. on those movables and properties which are in the function of providing tourist services, which is of course to Croatia as a tourist country of great interest, and since we are introducing this regime for the first time, of course, to be careful about consumer protection, clear distinction and the definition of all rights and obligations before and after the end of the contractual period. This Directive constitutes a directive of maximum harmonisation, maximum harmonisation, which means that it does not go to the lowest possible objective of harmonisation, but that limit has already been shifted to the maximum of the adoption of the point of the directive into national legislation in order to allow the standards to indeed apply at the level of absolutely all Member States. Also, the new directive that we transpose into the Consumer Protection Act by 2011 when it was taken over was a time-limit only on real estate, but the new directive as we now transpose it into the bill changes the concept of time shares in such a way that the share now refers to both real estates, suites, accommodation rooms, and movables, and we primarily think about cruisers, ships, yachts and auto-campers. The directive, which we transpose into national legislation, also regulates long-term tourist products such as discount holiday clubs, or discount clubs, so clubs where consumers as long-term customers, as long-term clients, make it possible during a time period of significant discounts. I would also add that we are introducing additional novels, such as the ban on any payment by consumers during the period during which the consumer can claim a unilateral termination of the contract, and I mention this way and a new way of defining the length of the right to a unilateral termination of the contract. There are two other significant changes. The first one certainly refers to the definition of competence for the implementation and control of the implementation of this law, which is fully, fully for all activities, for all sectors within the competence of the State Inspectorate. We therefore believe that this centralisation of the control of the competences itself in the implementation, regardless of what activity and sector it is going to contribute to the speed of the procedure, or the specialisation of the State Inspectorate itself, but also to make it simple to allow consumers to perhaps not wander from the institution to the institution, that there is no conflict of jurisdiction, or that there is no transfer of responsibility from the institution to the institution. So we suggest that the entire central authority for the implementation of this law be in the State Inspectorate. And as a last resort, I'm leaving a warning bill segment. What we propose to these changes and additions in order to protect consumers, not only the visas of their rights, but also the visas of their economic rights, as well as their economic situation, is to introduce a moment in which warnings are received by the consumer not only to the ultimate amount of debt that the consumer owes to the financial institution, the card office, or to all service providers, which, on the basis of the debt, send warnings to consumers. The analysis, but of course with numerous queries, and the dissatisfaction of consumers who regularly appear and address the ministry last year, organized a large round table with regulators, with service providers, with consumers where it is estimated that in fact the financial impact or reason why they charge warnings of 50, 100, 150, sometimes 200 kuna simply does not exist. The ultimate solution, apart from the amendments, that is to say, the amendment to this law did not exist, and therefore it was this law where the ultimate aim is to protect consumers, so each of us, that we put a proposal on the table that these warnings will be and if they are not remunerated and are not accounted for as a sum of the debt. This does not mean, of course, that we do not point out from this place that the discipline in payment, respecting payment deadlines for the provided service, that we do not all have to observe these disciplines together. We know what the terms of the debt payment are, we know which day of the month for which the service must be paid. So, this is not a segment where we in some way deny only the existence of debt by default, this is actually the moment that if we come in late and receive a reminder of this piece of paper we do not pay for some reason 100 or 150 kuna, but of course it does not mean that each of us is not responsiblely to follow, but we do need to strengthen the discipline of paying our bills in the name of the service that has been performed and delivered to us. Here I thank you once again for your attention, thank you for the debate held by the committees and, of course, I am at your disposal for all possible issues, the clarifications we will give during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12106	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Mirela Holy, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, for representing the government. At the very beginning of the presentation on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act that we are discussing today, I would like to stress that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will support the adoption of this law. I remind you that the UN General Assembly is in its Resolution No. 39/248 from far 1985 defined the following universal consumer rights in a document known as the UN Consumer Guide. The right to the security of goods and services, the right to full timely and true information, the right to the choice of products and services, the right to hear the voice of the consumer, i.e. the right to represent, the right to meet the basic needs of life, the right to compensation for damages, the right to a healthy environment and the right to education. Consumer rights are deeply intertwined with many fundamental constitutional or constitutional rights of all citizens and citizens, and the level of democratic development of a society can also be easily measured by the level of rights enjoyed by consumers in the country. And consumers are all of us, or all of us who buy goods and services on the market on a daily basis. And therefore, the laws and sublaws that protect consumer rights are extremely important, but more important is their concrete application. It is a sad fact that we can have the best and the best laws and regulations of sublaw, but if these laws and regulations are not implemented in practice and effectively protect consumers from the self-will of service providers and manufacturers, then we have nothing. In this regard, we welcome the adoption of this regulation in the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP, but we are warning of the necessity of effective application and implementation of this extremely important law. All in Croatia are well aware that the level of protection of consumer rights is not high. Every day, consumer rights violations, and in the SDP club, we are sure that every person in Croatia felt a violation of its consumer rights at least once in their own skin. Some of the injuries are almost so normal, "normal" under quotes. Too many bills for telecommunications services that we have to pay whatever they are, and then complain about, the inappropriate quality of the product compared to the content of the declaration, the poorly provided services and the like. Rarely, a person who complains of violating his consumer rights and receives adequate satisfaction. Unfortunately, Croatia is still the easiest, most effective and shortest way to achieve adequate compensation or satisfaction by forwarding the story to the media because it is the irresponsible traders, manufacturers and service providers who react much better than to the protest letters of dissatisfied customers or users in advertising and even to court proceedings. And that's not a situation that should cheer us up. There are, of course, opposite cases, where consumers abuse their legal rights and manipulations and abuses gain benefits that do not really belong to them, but such situations are much less than those where consumer rights are violated. Today's companies are becoming increasingly customerocentric and are moving away from the previous organisational core business model. A large number of companies are, of course, the most due to the pressure of consumer associations and the growing awareness of the importance of protecting the rights of consumers in the public today based their business models on customer relations, i.e. users, communicating with users and adapting their business policy to the demands of their users because they are actively working to raise satisfaction and retain users or clients by applying such a business model. This business model is called customer relations management or management of relationships with users and is widely applied in the developed world. The fact is that many Croatian companies have also followed the trend over the past 10 years, which has led to increased consumer rights protection, but the state cannot allow the improvement of this extremely important area of goodwill and long-term business interests of companies. In order for the state to be effective in implementing this important law, quality protection of consumer rights is necessary in a non-selective, strict and objective market inspection and a quality State inspectorate as a whole. The inspection must not make any difference in the implementation of this law between large and small companies, so that they train strictness on small players, and benevolently look through the fingers of large players because it is in the interest of the state and the stability of the economy. Unfortunately, over the past few years, we have seen such arguments too often. This law brings two key changes. The first refers to the European context, i.e. leading to the harmonisation of Croatia with EU legislation, and the second concerns the domestic context, i.e. the prevention of abuse of the instrument of notice for achievements and the unpaid claims of traders or service providers. The law is in line with the new Directive 2008/122/EC adopted in January 2009 which regulates consumer protection against certain aspects of the Treaty on the right to time-limited use on long-term products for rest, resale and exchange, i.e. a directive that regulates the rights of users thereby share tourism capacity. The indisputable fact is that in Croatia, and obviously in Europe too, there was a lot of intransparency, uncertainty and abuse of this kind of tourism consumerism, so it is excellent that this law will now regulate the relationship between users and providers of this share service. The fact is that the share form of tourism has its advantages, but it is also a fact that such a form of tourist service can be burdened with various abuses. This tourist product is reduced to the next user buying a share of the apartment or other tourist mobile or fixed capacity in such a way that there is a conditionally stated owner of that capacity in a certain week or more weeks of the year. During this period, the user uses this tourist capacity as the owner, but is obliged to pay maintenance costs relatively to the share, or to the time period available over the property. Although membership in organisations that gather shares of users within the same group, it provides a whole range of other options from replacement locations to favourable airlines and the like. The fact is that this form of tourist products was the subject of manipulation, misunderstanding and abuse. Commonly, for example. This tourist product has been promoted as an investment, which will soon be disabled by this law. Also, the content of the contract will be arranged, and an advance payment, guaranteeing and such will be disabled, which should be welcomed in any case. In the SPD club, we are sure that the application of this law will significantly improve the rights of future time-share users to prevent hunting in the murky, foreign-different speculators. Users of this share capacity in Croatia will have to pay, like all other tourists, domestic or foreign taxes, but we will not assume to be obliged to pay taxes on real estate, for vacation, and utility fees throughout the year as throughout the year as all owners in the coastal area must. Along with the parallel payment of residence fees, which represents a kind of double taxation. In this regard, even though the owners of the property share will be in a more favourable position than the owners of houses or apartments for vacation in the tourist municipality or city, if the facilities are not located within the meaning of the House Tax Act. In the SDP club, we welcome the ban on the collection of notices for the outstanding claims of traders and service providers, because there was chaos and disorder in this area, and traders and service providers misused the warning instrument for the loan extortion of money from consumers. Although we will always insist in the SDP on settlement of all accounts, and obligations, and strict financial discipline. We will not allow the difficult material situation in which many citizens and citizens of Croatia are being abused and unscrupulous traders and service providers to profit from other people's problems. We hope that other clubs of MPs and MPs will also support the adoption of this extremely important law, which greatly improves consumer rights in Croatia, and that the executive authority will ensure consistent compliance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12108	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDZ Club and the distinguished representative Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12109	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Consumer Protection Act is one of the rules which has started the procedure for implementing the European Union guidelines in the area of consumer protection in the Croatian legal system which takes over European standards of behaviour on the market. Both consumer rights and consumer education and information. The adoption of the new Consumer Protection Act of 2007 and the 2009 additions, Croatia's legislation was fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union in this area. These amendments also represent further alignment with the European Union directives which entered into force in the area of this share 2 years ago. Although this type of tourist offer has not been developed further, the implementation of the directive is expected to intensify this activity because the Republic of Croatia is indeed a desirable destination for the development of this type of tourist offer. It is precisely thanks to the completion of the negotiations and the near entry into full membership that we become an even more attractive destination, and it is important that our legal regulations are fully harmonised, guaranteeing equal treatment between traders in all Member States, which contributes to greater legal certainty, both consumers and traders. For our market, it is especially important to extend the scope to the property of the tourist product next to the real estate and to different movements such as yachts, boats, cruisers, auto-campers and the like. And indeed, in this law, of course, nothing is disputed. But what has caused much more public attention, related to these amendments to the law, is a matter of reminders that traders send to those who do not pay their bills in time and prohibit the collection of notices. By traders, of course, we all understand what that means. Without a doubt, the generally acceptable proposal, because it also stemmed from the fact that many citizens are organised through consumer associations, the Ministry of Economy and the consultations held by the ministry in our term of office. Very often, they regret such behaviour by participants in payment traffic. Such practice was first introduced by business banks, and very quickly the other participants realized that the deterioration of the material status of citizens increased the number of those who cannot pay those accounts in time and that, in addition to the legitimate right to warn their debtors, they could make plenty of money. Although, of course, it is not possible to dispute the obligation and the right for creditors to warn about the debt, to insist on the collection and to take all legal measures to collect their claims, and to charge the objective cost of the notice. You can't tolerate over-exaggeration and absurdity with extra and earning money on this problem. In addition to these for the public, however, it is a fundamental question of when the government will actually start dealing with real problems and when it will start creating economic preconditions for citizens to have to pay their bills. We are witnessing, unfortunately, the fact that the economic situation is getting worse, that the cost of life has increased, that the bills for electricity, gas, municipal services, water as well as in general the necessary living needs are increasing. And what is the direct result of this government's work or necessity. And that these little populist measures will not help citizens to cover the growing cost of life. The decline in social product, the decline in consumption, the rise in unemployment, the decline in economic activity, are a much greater threat to the standard of living of our citizens than paying attention to our creditors. Whether there will be work, whether there will be salaries from which loans can be serviced, paying 30% higher electricity bills, or 35% higher gas bills, depends on the success of the Croatian economy. However, while we are already at the gas bill, for water, the issue of consumer protection was also a delusion when they increased, when energy prices increased, as, of course, the manipulation of information was silenced to introduce a new category in water and gas bills. Let's say for the gas fixed fee of 20.63 kuna, which so far has not been, for water 18.41 kuna, which was not. And that really did make one scam should have been said, of course, that the gas would not be collected by 19, 20 or 21%. They didn't really know how to say it at the government's session or the first vice president, and especially the Prime Minister for how much gas he's actually going to collect, and they shut down the fact that a fixed fee of 20 kuna is being imposed, which is according to today's someone, the information that came out in the paper for some citizens is also a total higher cost than their spending. 20 kuna for gas is somewhere around 8.9 cc's of gas. Same with the water. It's a real issue for the protection of the Consumers' Association. But just from everything this government has done in the first six months, it can unfortunately be concluded that it has never been more difficult for the Croatian entrepreneur to do business. There have never been so many harsh insults and names of Croatian entrepreneurs and so many anti-enterprise laws have never been passed in such a short time. And we cannot, of course, expect Croatian private entrepreneurship from the Croatian economy to move forward. The results of such a policy are already visible. The loss of motivation of the Croatian private sector to invest, to enter new projects, to create new jobs and sumana economic fall is already on the horizon. And here is the latest data on the decline in consumption and for five months compared to the annual level compared to the previous year by 4.4%, therefore further confirms these claims. Therefore, these and the sympathetic moves of the Government cannot cover up the general fact that economic recovery is not seen, that real sector is losing jobs and that accounts will be paid regardless of the reminders or without becoming increasingly difficult to pay. Thank you very much. Yeah, I think we'll back this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12110	Thank you. HNS club and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12111	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party Club will support a draft proposal on amendments to the Consumer Protection Act. Once again, the reasons for the adoption of the law are to further comply with the legal acquis of the European Union in this area, as well as to settle one of the very important issues with which consumers have reported very often in the last two years to a resolution ministry that has not been addressed by then. This draft law is of course in line with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of January 2009 on consumer protection against certain aspects of the Treaty on the right to time-limited use, etc. the timeshare on long-term products for rest, resale and replacement. This government reacts very quickly and expediently and solves something that could have been resolved before, and then talks about expeditionivity and approach in relation to what for consumers, compared to entrepreneurs, it is evident that it is very, very expedient and as far as my predecessor's discussion of stimuli and relations with entrepreneurs is clear that in six months, this government has certainly done much more than the last four years. To make it clear to everyone. Since the directive in question is intended to strengthen consumer legal certainty in the conclusion of these contracts. Following this, the implementation of the same legislation in the Croatian legislation brings several significant newspapers that I want to highlight on behalf of the HNS club. First of all, this Directive represents a directive of maximum harmonisation guaranteeing equal treatment between traders in all Member States, which contributes to greater legal protection both for consumers and traders across the common market and is not only for consumers but also for traders in Croatia. The Timeshare, or time-limited use so far has been exclusively related to real estate, such as apartments, accommodation rooms, etc. And the adoption of this law will also apply to movables, cruisers, boats, yachts, car campers, as well as long-term tourist products or consumers will be given significant discounts when using tourist services as well as replacement contracts or contracts for the resale of timeshare or long-term tourist product. In order to ensure that data are transparent and comparable in timeshare as well as a long-term tourist product, the trader is obliged to deliver to the consumer prior to the conclusion of the contract all the complete information and notifications necessary to the consumer in order to make a decision on the signing of the contract in question. Information and transparency are key to the work of these governments as well. The trader is also obliged to inform consumers of the right to unilateral termination of contracts and deadlines within which the consumer can do so. Furthermore, this bill prohibits the trader from seeking any payment from the consumer during the period of the right to a unilateral termination of the contract. The infringement of these provisions by traders is subject to significant fines ranging from 10 to 100000 kuna. Although this business activity is still not sufficiently developed in the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of the directive is expected to intensify this activity since the Republic of Croatia is a tourist country with great potential that seeks to position well all types of tourism on the European market. This is one big message and call for tourists and investors in Croatia, because this implementation protects consumers, protects users, and we know in that shop is always right. Also, through these amendments and additions, one of the most frequent problems that consumers face on a daily basis should be addressed, and it concerns the collection of notices for receipts rather than charges. The economic crisis, recession, high unemployment and over-indebtedness had a significant impact on the timely implementation of the consumer's monetary obligations. A large number of consumers have not been able to comply with their obligations by their own free will. On the other hand, in an effort to collect their claims in order to ensure smooth further business, traders provide consumers with notices of rarely very high amounts, such as 20 to even 300 kuna. Some traders warn consumers several times a month, and this adds to consumer costs. Such practices would not be controversial if it did not cause significant additional costs to consumers already over-indebted and unable to settle the basic claim. A large number of consumers through their complaints as well as consumer protection organisations have shown great dissatisfaction with such behaviour by traders and are seeking adequate protection of their rights to the fact that the unequal and sometimes very high amount of notice by traders in the payment of claims leads to the situation that consumers, apart from existing debt and tight interest, are burdened and the amount of notice which further increases their duty indicates the necessity of regulating this area. In this context, and taking into account the difficult economic situation and seeing the fact that the claims reached must be charged, it is proposed that these amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act should be made to consumers without compensation for the payment of the claims made. Such a solution would seek to achieve the necessary balance in the sense that the trader will collect its claim, which is a prerequisite for its continued smooth business but without additional consumer burden. This law also adopts an amendment to the law on the supervision of its implementation. It is prescribed that supervision of implementation will be carried out exclusively by the State Inspectorate, which should contribute to effective protection of consumer rights. The current law, together with the proposed amendments and additions, will contribute to a higher level of consumer rights protection in the Republic of Croatia and is one of the cornerstones of the regulated market and a guarantee for achieving better economic impacts and overall economic development. An orderly society arranged for consumers, stimulating to entrepreneurs, is this government's policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12112	Thank you. The positions of the HDSSB club will be brought closer to us by respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Both last night and this morning I read this legislative proposal that bears the E mark, hence the European and the 108 mark, such as our famous 108. The ship's brigades and I'm not in the text that was attached to us MPs almost found the word of the bank. Merchants and merchants and all the things that apply to real estate tourism, time shares as my colleague Holly and my predecessor said before my presentation, so I couldn't find the word of the bank. Furthermore, it is said to be a European law and we respect the EU's legal gains. So the introduction of this text of the legislative proposal mentions and lists the directives. My colleague Holly mentioned the UN Resolution of 1987 No. 37 but this text does not mention it and mentions the Council of Europe Directives of '85, '93, '97, '98 2002, 2005, 2008 is therefore the last Directive since 2008. It is now in 2012 we have conducted pre-accession negotiations... but this directive is only now under discussion in the Croatian Parliament. So I wonder how these directives ended in 2008 in the EU, and we only adopt them after four years. Has it been four years and given some time period for banks that are not mentioned in the words in this text to do what they do to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to do banking. What happened with Swiss and Swiss franc fraud is also a banking mobbing over the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and everyone in the government has been watching and watching, and there has been European law and directives for 4 years. but Croatia does not apply them, they have now come to their senses. So that's one thing someone said was the government's nice proposal for a certain not to tell the crumbs that will help the citizens. At the same time as someone has already listed here that fixed gas fee, electricity, water increases quietly, quietly that it is actually in the account to say it almost doesn't see but see, someone sees it. So it's actually mobing I don't know who, a trader, a bank or a government and a state of the Republic of Croatia over its citizens. These are really certain towels, although when we look at these bank notes that they charge different now, so there's a reminder to me different from the bank to the bank, so one of ours says, I'm not going to name a bank so I don't make her an ad or an anti-reclam, he says like this: "Clirents are being warned only 15 days from the start of the debt when they pay off the loans. The notice is charged 50 kuna. If the debt is not settled in 25 days, another warning that costs 100 kuna will follow." But when they do that is one item in the menu. When it comes to the second menu, then it is an overrun in a bank that is otherwise charged it costs 30 kuna, which is the first warning for overrunning the limit, and the second is 50 kuna. And the note of a lawsuit or a lawsuit is 100 kuna. Now, in this legislative proposal that mentions and 99% of the text refers to this share of time-limited use and contracts regarding the use of real estate, and now movables in tourist facilities, boats, yachts, etc. So here it is, and this actually for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is a much more important topic, and that is the price of the notes that banks send to us every day. Here I am also getting a notice that since I didn't have any receipts, no expense from my current account I owe 50 kuna because there they are following my account so I got negative 50 kuna I guess you keeping my account there that exists in the bank I don't know, exactly, so there's an explanation from the bank. I was going to ask why I'm in a long 50 kuna, so because you didn't pay anything or pay anything, but your account is in the bank and it costs 50 kuna. This is one example of what is allowed, which the CNB did not prescribe to commercial banks, and has the right to determine how the banks and banks operate. So what we're trying to say now is that they're money dealers, so that you'll understand differently, because in this very explanation of the concepts related to this law are mentioned exclusively by traders, so I guess money dealers are banks, I don't know how else to classify them. In any case, since this goes in favour of the citizens and of some kind of map and justice as someone said and since it is therefore in favour of the citizens and since it is one to say the law that at least in these crumbs helps the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or the HDSB club will not be against this legislative proposal but will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12114	Thank you. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic believes that some incorrect assumption has been issued that needs immediate correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Right, the whole debate is basically an incorrect allegation. Banks in this case are traders in this law and the bank will not be able to charge any notices. That revenue of cca 3.5 billion kuna that they made on the basis of various or reminders, fees etc., somewhere 3 to 6% is related to warnings. By this law, the amendments to the law will no longer be able to charge warnings by users or consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12116	Thank you very much. I think something similar will explain now and Deputy Economy Minister Tamara Obradovic Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12117	Thank you. It's really very short. An intervention to present the esteemed representative, Grubisic, as perhaps a small aid. In addition to what you have identified yourself in terms of the law, I am talking about page 7 of the third indent, the trader is any person who makes a legal deal etc. However, at this point in time, perhaps we are defined by the concept of the trader himself, I also refer to the Law on Commercial Companies which the trader or the company, regardless of what activity it is, means the economic or some other company is a trader. Commercial companies are stock companies, companies are jtds, limited liability. So the roof law, the Company Act defines the bank as a trader. Here's hoping it helps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12118	Thank you very much. What are you applying for shyly like this for? ... Correction of an incorrect quote, Honored Grubisic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12119	Deputy Minister Mazal...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12120	Which quote is incorrect, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12121	The quote is incorrect that I said, "I'm sorry, I said there's no such thing as a bank or a bank."
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12122	You haven't corrected any allegations. The deputy minister explained that both banks are companies and traders, which she explained and there is nothing to fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12123	He didn't fix anything either, so you didn't tell him anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12124	Your Honor, let's let the debate flow into the public's interest that it's clear what the law applies to and who it binds, so that's our goal here. We continue to discuss the clubs, so the views of the SDSS club will be presented by the respected Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12125	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected deputy minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club supports this proposal to amend and supplement the Consumer Protection Act and considers that the time has finally come to act more effectively in order to protect the biggest source of income in today's economy, which are consumers. In a country like ours where work is becoming less and less profitable because work is less and more profitable on the stomach, more and more is earned on the body, therefore on food, on clothing, on medicines and, of course, on the money needed for it, which is not earned but is unfortunately borrowed. In this regard, the government's decision to start introducing order in this area is considered to be extremely important and extremely welcome, but we also hope that this decision is only the first step in protecting consumers. In this sense, the government's decision, which was announced several weeks ago, and is now shaped in the statement of this law to withdraw the right to charge notices for unpaid debts, is a significant measure in terms of consumer protection. Because indeed, we are witnessing that not only banks but also banks, not only telecoms, but also some public companies charge in different ways through the warning system and collect significant money and, of course, earn something they have not earned, earn something under the circumstances in which they have full protection of financial security, extended to those who do not have any protection in financial security. And that's why this first step is to make it impossible to collect a reminder in our opinion extremely significant. As far as the directive is concerned, but before I move on to the directives, I would say one more thing, the system of billing through warnings that, according to some estimates, allowed several billion kuna revenue per year is only one of the ways in which consumers actually deprive and take it from consumers. I think it is extremely important to start to manage an even more efficient quality control of products, the quality of products that come to the shelves of trade, the quality of products that reach different stores and trade chains because there is actually one of the main forms of consumer cuts and prices, but also rarely in health. And it's my opinion that if the state already has to introduce taxes to consolidate fiscal policy itself then I also think it's time for the state to start introducing order to those who, in circumstances where it can't be earned otherwise, make money on those, on food, on clothes, on drugs, on what people have to have. And I think that the State Inspectorate, I think that the Ministry of Economy and other ministries in which this portfolio is going to have to pay particular attention to the issue of food quality. And of course, special attention should be paid to the food quality declarations and sources where the food comes from. One more thing I'd like to mention is the issue of advertising. In my opinion, advertising must be better regulated in our legislation than regulated. And just as traders and others have been working through the warning system to get money so I think the state should come up with money by considering the mechanisms and ways of taxation in advertising. And I think it's perfectly legitimate and I think it's in the function of protecting consumers on the one hand, and on the other hand we're witnessing that there are different ways of advertising systems that actually become more dominant and much more important than what is, for example,. media freedom and media space. This kind of transformation of our newspapers, our televisions in which not only the second and third pages no longer serve to publish the news but to publish a photograph of a cheap bow or a photograph of a cheap onion, so I think it merits the absolute attention of the regulator. As far as the directive is concerned, we have nothing to add to these directives except that, thanks to these directives, consumers will indeed be much safer with us than they are so far. What I would say about the text of this proposal for a law transposing the provisions of the directive in the Consumer Protection Act itself, which has caused a certain interest on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure here I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and I would like to draw attention to those who felt that the text contained too many English terms, in particular terms such as sharing, and who felt that the text should be freed from foreigners, I also consider that there should be a need to take care in our language, and in particular in the legal texts there are no unnecessary foreigners, but in this case these foreigners are necessary because our translator is descriptive and contains more than 6.7 words. But I'm also free to propose to lawmakers everywhere where there's no need to stand by sharing to erase it. Therefore, it is sufficient to specify two or three times, once in terms, two times in the basic places where it is mentioned in the text and after that there is no need to repeat it again. So I don't think you're going to do any damage to the vagueness of the text if you delete the sharing in all the places where you've listed it, and leave it in two or three places where it's necessary to explain what it's really about. And with regard to the Club of Representatives of the SDSS our contribution to the debate would be filled with the conclusion that we will support the law, with the conclusion that we encourage you to continue to work, find mechanisms to make the state stronger in protecting consumers because our confidence that civil society associations will do so, that this will make different associations of consumers are insanely happy. It is a hollow story as the Associations for the Protection of Human Rights or Other Rights cannot do what the State can do as much as it can be useful, so it is also worth protecting consumers. They include consumer protection, which is even more eclatant because we are afraid that consumer associations can actually become very easy to become the prey of powerful organisations of those who actually live from profit on consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12126	Thank you very much. Some incorrect allegation now wants to correct the respected Dujomir Marasovic. So let's hear what was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12127	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of Mr. Col. Pupovac, who said that this proposal is a government that is no longer to be paid, that there must be no warning that this is important for consumer protection and that this is a significant measure to protect consumers and a significant measure to protect consumer standards. That allegation, in my opinion, is not correct. This measure is insignificant and, this measure is ordinary, in my opinion, a demagogue trick, a psychological trick forged in the smithy of the ruling majority in order to actuate a major drop in standards and a great pressure on consumers by collecting electricity and those statements in terms of some less phoned, so they will pay easier for electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12128	You know for a fact that you have not corrected the allegations but a political stance. You can answer the question, you can talk about what you think of Popovec for 10 minutes. But don't answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12129	My colleague Stazic disagrees with you, you abuse your duty because this, I have corrected exactly the incorrect assumption. I find this allegation incorrect. And I don't know her.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12130	You haven't corrected an incorrect quote, you haven't corrected anything. And please stick to the Rules of Procedure. We continue the debate by clubs and now we will hear what Croatian Labourists think about the proposal of this law. I'm calling for a pay phone to honor Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12131	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we welcome these amendments to the Consumer Protection Act and I can only say that we have finally welcomed this, but I also have to ask myself a question, why did it take us so long? So far, we seem to have been acting on that "Take the one who doesn't and give it to whoever has it, so there's a little more to it.". What bothers me, worries me, or I don't even know how to say it, is that in law we're... We paid for the electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12132	Wait a minute. Here's while the aggregate's on, and I think it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12133	Therefore, we have a Consumer Protection Act in which Article 122 decidedly states who in the Republic of Croatia is the holder of consumer protection. It says that consumer protection holders are the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Consumer Protection, the Ministry of Economy, the State Inspectorate and other competent institutions, the National Council for Consumer Protection, the bodies of local and regional self-government, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Employers' Association and other bodies of the public authorities, each of their responsibilities in the area of consumer protection, and the Consumer Protection Association. This article does not state that the holder of consumer protection and the Croatian National Bank is a national bank, so here she could use the possibility that, as part of these amendments to the law, the existing Article 122 is added by the Croatian National Bank. Because in 2011, the Bank established a Directorate for Consumer Protection and Competition, and I believe that it is also a consumer protection. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall establish a National Consumer Protection Council, the Council shall be the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Council shall participate in the development of a national consumer protection programme. The Consumer Protection Department of the Ministry of Economy consists of 4 departments. This is also the section for the development and coordination of the implementation of consumer policy, education and information departments, the department for the harmonisation of legislation and the department for European Union programmes and projects. And just on the trail of all this, I said, at the beginning, I asked why it took us so long to come to this law to protect consumers. We are witnessing that so far, as far as the collection of notices worked and solved the problem in Croatia, it appears exclusively to be an association. Even though we had how I listed a lot of the subjects that it was, not only in the job description, but in their basic work. One association in Croatia has launched consumer rights towards the Constitutional Court and sent a proposal for an assessment of constitutionality, a collection of warnings. I won't mention anyone, I'll tell the companies, we all know exactly who charged all the notes and each of us knows who we paid. So no matter what these companies called, whether they were named or generalized. So we implement action plans, national strategies, and only in the end we have to say, let those who work in these government offices, agencies, departments justify this fundamental purpose. This is certainly as we have heard only one small part of the problem regarding consumer protection. One of the worse ones, I think, is the quality control of the product, especially food, especially those of import food, based on it and the control of printed declarations, for example. What we have in European declarations should finally begin to be implemented as soon as possible because it is indeed time. Here, just so much and really thanks again, and congratulations on this billing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12134	Thank you very much. The stand of the independent list of Ivan Grubisic will be presented by the esteemed Ivan Grubisic himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12135	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, I will say a few words about the proposal of this Consumer Protection Act as well as the work of the Parliament itself, in which I do not see if we continue this way with individual discussions and some improvements I do not see coming out of the general crisis in which our society is located. In fact, consumer protection is certainly the protection of citizens. We now share our citizens here on consumers, on patients, on this, on that, we are discussing individually but these individual debates will not contribute to the root changes that Croatia needs. I therefore think that more time is wasted and some evidence is unnecessary than we will really protect the consumer, or citizen. To resort to the establishment of agencies, commissions and all but to delay solutions or not to bring about the right solutions, and it all costs as much as the establishment of lawyers of various categories of people at risk, which only indicates that the rule of law has not changed things more significantly. This is about equality and protection of the rule of law, of legal property, and of which the Parliament must insist. We will support as much as it contributes to a single bill of general good and the protection of individual rights of the individual, but we do not agree with breaking the main topics on side issues and on several topics. Then you get the impression of great work or progress, but in fact everything is in place. Root changes are needed in three spheres of Croatian society. These are changes in the conduct of politics itself, to make politics happen, not politics. Structural changes are needed in the way Croatia is organised and it is necessary to adopt a national development project of Croatia over 15 to 20 years, and I would like the Croatian Parliament to be the bearer of the project, to order it and then to start implementing the project that would be when the Parliament votes it and passes the check is mandatory for all governments that receive citizens' trust in the next elections. In order to implement these root changes, I'm afraid what's happening to us now in the government and the union's conversation is inconclusive, and I believe that each of them has a right without the introduction of the so-called. the state of emergency suspending certain rights in order to relegate those rights without that introduction of an emergency, I'm afraid, so it's not the military, it's not going out on the streets. It's a project of development that needs to be realized and then it needs to be done. A state of emergency so that he can be realized and we can start over. This will not help the European Community. We will have to deal with this ourselves by changing the way of politics, by radical changes in the organisation of the Croatian state, by reducing the number of administrations that all warn us about, and we are left with these problems as if we remain a deaf password that above the Croatian Parliament is just a god. It's a parolee that in my opinion means nothing. Above the Parliament are the ones who chose us, and these are Croatian voters. They are the ones who determine and will judge it in the elections. That's why I'd like to work so that we can get out of the crisis, agree, really be representatives of Croatian voters and work in the spirit of these voters in this House. So, I understand this Consumer Protection Act in a broader context than the protection of the citizens themselves, and in this sense we will support it to protect against various lobbies primarily not the institution of the state itself as much as the various lobbies that are more powerful and organised than the state itself. That's where we have to say it's enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12136	Thank you, too. We move on to an individual debate, so I give my word to my esteemed colleague, Ingrid Atnicevic Marinovic, who first applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your esteemed deputy colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act aims to correct not one injustice, but one great one, above all, illegality. Unfortunately, there are few producers, but we are all consumers. And no matter how many here and when the Consumer Protection Act was first passed which was something new in our country. Also, by incorporating time and many conventions on consumer protection, but the fact remains undeniable for consumers today to peel whoever arrives and however they arrive. The question arises, so most in public and for many years now, questions and great anxiety are raised precisely because citizens know that we are charged for something that is not to be charged and these are warnings. Since many accounts are irregular because of the crisis, it's not worth it, then someone thought of being zealous just as a reminder. The question is also asked what has been waiting for all these years when it was known about the problem, when citizens warned about it directly or through their consumer associations. But until now, the old government has tolerated it. Namely, here are the data that many traders, public companies, telecommunications operators and banks are charging their warnings from 20 to 300 kuna. It was not rare to send more notices in one month or even in a few days. So, in a very short space of time. It has also been noted here again today, although the media reported this, that the banks themselves have charged more than 3 billion kuna on various warnings. So it was all done because they could do it. The biggest cynicism precisely from the bank itself, or the Croatian Banking Association, was the one that, following the announcement by the authorities, would be abolished and said, the law prohibits the collection of notices by law followed their response that it was for the very benefit of debtors to send notices. Yeah, I'm sure you should believe that, too. Sending a note is certainly in the interest of the debtor, but not the charge. I'm just going to point out that we're not in any kind of space until now where it wasn't regulated. However, this is regulated in our most, one of the fundamental laws, in the Criminal Law in Article 350, which knows the criminal act of illegal collection and payment. Of course the banks aren't I don't know if there's even one case, perhaps purely confusing but minor to make them pay off the anti-zaconite payment. But illegal charges were too much, so it's a criminal offence. It reads: "The official or responsible person who collects something from someone who is not obliged to pay or charge more than he is obliged to pay will be punished by a prison sentence by one year". So this was criminal behavior, not just against the law, because it's some kind of violation, and banks say it's a good custom because there's obviously only the law on banks for them. They are also not interested in the Criminal Procedure Act where ignoring is and where they were, in turn, where all their forces were actually used to relativise the banking secret in the Criminal Procedure Act, so the other laws clearly do not apply to them. And the authorities so far have tolerated it. For what? So here's what I'm proposing, because it's also a legal obligation to charge all the charges that have been unlawfully made by means of coercion to the state budget and to return interest to those who have been dispossessed in an unlawful manner. It's the only right way. It is sad to conclude that in a special law like this, we must especially point out that the collection of the notice is not allowed. Here, by supporting this bill in amendments to the Consumer Protection Act, I propose that the state be able to force those who unlawfully charged to return it, and where there is no statute of limitations to prosecute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12138	Thank you. Boro Grubisic stands up on this replica display.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid, with you, I fully agree with your debate. So I asked myself what was waiting for this law to be passed, and there's already this Penal Code you were talking about. We know that three billion kunas have been charged in connection with citizens' warnings, but I am expressing one fear. Namely, you know as well as all of us that on tax and some credit you have a credit-processing fee. Shouldn't a preventive bank be placed in that kind of credit processing fee preventively maybe this part will be bigger than it has been before, and that's completely legal. So what do we do?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12140	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Josip Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12141	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is rare that the law so personally concerns us as the Consumer Protection Act, as one of the most respected colleagues of Grubisic said at one point. He could have been freely called and the law on the protection of citizens because we meet with one form daily, or we go to the store, so we buy something, someone at the service, someone is charging us with municipal services, someone throws propaganda material in our mailboxes, so we meet with this law every day. Here, I'll just draw one line. Today I read that the Association of Consumers Franak has filed a collective lawsuit against 8 banks by protecting savings that save still and paying off loans in Swiss francs precisely thanks to this law. So it's the same line as how important this Consumer Protection Act is. These changes in this law are normal that I will support them because they are necessary and they are good. Why necessary? Because we are in line with EU laws. Perhaps the vast majority of Croatian citizens may not have even heard of the concept of this share. The closer we get and align with the EU, the more such terms we will have to prepare Croatian citizens for such a surprise, rather than bringing them into line with European laws. As for the reminders, colleagues and colleagues have said a lot, I can only say a little that I completely agree with dealing with this notion of payment of notice. I wouldn't even call him a parafiscal intrusion, but I'd call him a parafiscal haracha. Because at one point it's obvious that the charge of the notice has gotten out of control from the banks, from the utility companies, from the merchants, I don't know who didn't want you to have to and how to collect the notice anymore. And those warnings ranged from 30 to 150 kuna. So I fully support this amendment to the law. I'd like to talk a little bit in my presentation, but I'd like to take a look at the practice. I come to you from Karlovac County and we are from one of the few counties, or the town of Karlovac, which we have at the same time a regional consumer protection association and a city consumer protection association. They're very active and they're very agile. Why am I talking about associations? Because I consider them that first line of defense between consumers and traders in any form. As such, however, they face a series of problems. I'd just warn on some. Here is specifically in the town of Karlovac Consumers Association, which I repeat very active and very agile does not have its own spacious. The local community simply won't rent them space. They will not be rented for more reasons and for their protection for protecting consumers from the collection of any utility accounts that are calculated ask God by what methodology, without talking about it, I guess there will be no more charge notices, etc. So they also have big funding problems. In the city of Karlovac, you have 32 lipes per consumer. I think the Croatian average is somewhere around 47 June. Now how much is it in the European frameworks? Romania is one of the let's say more stingy states by that, but it doubles its salary. So maybe we should talk about it a little bit. Why am I insisting on my presentation I underline this story with associations because it is certainly not an isolated case and the implementation of this law itself will be better as best as possible for the ministry and these associations to cooperate. I say again once again, I take them as the first line of defense between these traders and consumers. That would be my modest contribution to this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12142	Thank you. The respected Boro Grubisic appeared again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since I was named by the name and last name of a colleague who commented that it was also a European law and that it had been four years since the last directive and so far this law has not been applied nor has it been in our parliamentary procedure, and it should have been. I must say that there are still such European regulations and laws that are not applicable and are not still on our benches here, which is a law on the quality of meat that is very important but is obviously in someone's interest that the law comes on the agenda as well as banks make money on meat from imports that are unquality and which do not meet EU standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12144	The desire to replicate was reported and respected by Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with my colleague Bencic when he says in that section that associations are the ones who do the most work. We heard from him and that Franak was also active in defending the same consumer rights yesterday, so we might just take advantage of the opportunity and say when we are already discussing how certain laws were not implemented, not entering into who was guilty and who did not, when we heard from colleague Antičević that we have a law on criminal proceedings that some relations in our country regulate, then let today's discussion and this debate be a school to us today, and as far as Franak or consumer rights are concerned, as soon as possible and to finally begin to do what we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12146	The right to its ten minutes is now being given to the honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Reputed deputies with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Personally here I support this Consumer Protection Act, in my debate I will limit myself to Article 4 which regulates the issue of non-payment of warnings. I welcome that because I consider it another step along with all the other provisions that these amendments and amendments make. I'm going to try to share some of my thoughts just as a guideline so maybe we can all find out something new together. We have heard a lot here in this House about carrots and beatings over the past few months, so I will personally call this, this story of warnings by some, I say some Croatian citizens after a few unexpected beatings that all Croatian citizens have received, and that has given them this power through the accumulation of life, a higher price they pay, through a 25% VAT, through more expensive electricity bills, through more expensive bills for water, gas, gasoline and heating. I'm going to say my example here, we're always talking about this price of electricity as it grew or didn't grow, and I'm going to compare it to my account that I got recently in the 6th month, about the same consumption as last year, the account higher by 300, last year 1010 kuna, this year 1360 kuna. I say, this carrot is far easier in terms of income than the beatings that some families have received or have lost some of their income through increased expenditures because it is not evenly distributed. And it's not evenly arranged because I say, there are citizens who orderly settle their accounts. Who are you, these are our pensioners who simply cannot afford the risk of warning and they are the first ones to run into the post office after their retirement, to pay all their bills to schedule the rest by the end of the month. They're neatly their own. I say not just pensioners, there are people who really keep their home budgets under control. I tell them this law doesn't practically bring anything. However, who is in that second group means that this measure will at least relieve the suffering, they are unemployed, those whose crisis, recession, over-indebtedness, the number of plastic cards simply debalanced between income and expenditure. They will say in a way to ease their suffering, but these above conditions are obviously states that will last for some time to come. Dear experts, when they talk about the issue of the warning, say that it is not fully regulated, a question that has obviously been misused and by many public companies, public companies, means all those businesses with which consumers have their relations. There may have been absurdities, and there were probably companies worth paying them not to pay the bill in time. These have become extraordinary incomes that can be spent well. That question wasn't regulated because we have a strange situation on our notice. You can earn a warning that you have not paid the bill within three days of not paying it, some are letting it last for a month and then you get a warning about that account. You have a situation with mobile operators to charge some of their warnings, some of their warnings do not charge, depending on their relationship with the consumer. I might say the greatest absurd, and we've heard it here, in the area of the banks where you have a situation in the family that the father is, say, a credit user, that his child, son or daughter is a guarantee of that loan, if you don't pay your loan war on time, there's a reminder and one and the other, double costs. Sometimes 100, sometimes 200. So that's one question we really need to settle. But what's the problem? Each one of those clients who took the loan, he signed the contract with the bank, he signed the contract and verified it to a public notary saying that the bank could charge him that fee. And now I'm asking if we will be able to resolve this contractual relationship under this law. Whether the bank will want to change contracts for its own damage, whether it will take the cost of warning to those citizens. Will they want me to say that when there's a clearly contractual relationship and two signatures on the one hand and on the other. What happened, some tried to resolve the issue of caution, however, it was always said to look for satisfaction in court. So I'm saying, I'm noting the reasons why we came to an area that we have to solve to the end. I say, maybe I say these questions a reminder will be some solution. But what do we have left? We're left with a variety of fees, we're left with tight interest. Here's an example of a family, perhaps from my example, of a fee. Water break 30 kuna, subscription to HTV 70 kuna, HT 70 kuna, radio frequency for mobile operator 10 kuna, gas we hear 20 kuna, fast internet 70 kuna. When you put it in the account that you didn't open a tap of water, that you didn't look at the TV, that you didn't pick up the phone, that you didn't take the cell phone, that you didn't open the gas, and that you don't have that fast internet per month 270 kuna times 12 months 3240 kuna. That we didn't touch anything. That's the question I say all together and us here in the Parliament because I think 150 people can give some experience, that they can help this government too to try to see so if we can't lift at least a cut. Because if our fast internet story about broadband has become a luxury, if watching HTV has become a luxury or having water, the gas I think in that part we have to start looking for our own let's say relief because I say this crisis has become too big, and all these gatherings again I say pay only them. And here all together I say we have to start looking for solutions because people are getting harder, people are depressed, they're looking at the floor and they're not happy anymore. It's our task all together. And here, this law I'm experiencing in that part of the positive, he's going to say, I say he's going towards some, according to a larger group maybe he's not going, but let's make it a first step. And everything else, especially the question of compensation or tight interest. Here's an example of us islanders. I live on a developed island and in the winter months your mail is late, you sometimes don't get bills in time, you pay other people's mistakes, mistakes of Croatian mail that can't, but maybe weather opportunities, which can't be delivered to households at the time of the payment deadlines of a certain kind of account. What's on those less developed islands? In Zadar, part of Sibenik County, Dubrovnik, where relationships are worse, where there are no post offices etc.? These are all questions where I say to consumers we must go because this amount of 3200 kuna refers to a large number of Croatian families. Here, thank you very much. If there's anything I can do, I'll be glad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12148	Thank you. Here are even six MPs who want to contradict you. Your disagreement with your debate will be brought first through the replica by the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go. A fellow Shuker?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12149	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, I didn't hear. So I don't want to use my own replica to oppose my colleagues' opinion, but I just want to expand a few more things. And I will immediately say I support this law, but unfortunately I think that with this law we only touched the dream of a huge iceberg and that many who at this moment have great balances about getting through various fees etc. They're very nice to skin Croatian citizens. Take a look at only one last message that all users received if you are users of one mobile operator, which will be from 1.09. around the parking lot in garages and in public city transport. So look, 1.02 parking lots in the garage aren't small at all, and when you take another set of those products that they sell nobody reacts to, I think that's what you should react to. However, what is crucial, what the government can react to, but the government has raised prices for that gas and electricity, which in the price of gas and electricity that all fees exist and to what these fees are spent on. Or the Consumers' Association, today the government will raise 15 drops of excise duty and 20 drops of excise duty on gasoline. Why? First, those who manufacture and sell gasoline under the premise that it is the price on the world market, and now that the prices have begun to fall, the government will skin us. And as for these mobile operators, the government will forgive them nicely one 300 million kuna, and they will not only get that 300 million but they will skin the citizens another way. I think we as the Croatian Parliament, because I don't think there should be any political division about this, because we're all in a position today that we won't be able to discuss it here because we're going to be somewhere else and that's why we need to discuss it without political colour. So, given support to the ministry for this law, but also to touch all these problems and once to make it clear not to call each other as soon as anyone has done. Because you see around these excise duties, see also these excise duties could have been reduced a few months ago when they were growing up, it was the government's instrument to introduce
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12150	I kindly ask you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12151	And that law needs to be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12152	Replication means contradicting, resisting words to Bratoljub Klaic. Now it's done by Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't want to contradict either, but I might want to think in a different way. My colleague, Boric, you were talking about carrots and beatings, and I really want to say that beatings are really too much. You were talking about honorable pensioners, and I want to tell you about farmers. About farmers who experience ruthless beatings so that almost every day they exhale one family farm. Every day. And now that I'm looking at these droughts these days, I'm asking how many funds are secured in the budget for a natural disaster? And we have witnessed in this House of Highs that some have not raised their hands for a natural disaster, the payment of farmers, even though they have largely advocated the rights of farmers. And then it's nice to hear, he says to pay back those three billion. I'm restrained about it, I don't think it's going to be feasible, I just want to say pay off what's legally binding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12154	This replica will be answered by the respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12155	So here's my dear colleague Milinkovic, I was talking about carrots and beatings because of what we heard here, I say to the ruling, they started that story somewhere at the 1st month, but people didn't expect this kind of blow to their standard. One tank of gasoline has come in the past six months in contrast to 50 liters between 70 and 80 kuna. That's 100 km less. I also referred here to a fee that I find very strange, even though I say there are mayors here, I understand both them and their utility companies. That's what they paused. When you ask them what it is, they say it's infrastructure maintenance. And now we're here all the time in all these problems, thinking what about it? For maintenance and sometimes it is that, I say the bill behind the water and the gas account is greater in terms of part of that fee than in part of the consumption, real consumption. And that amongst people is causing disdain, which is why we have to start saying, we all think about that part together and how, through that part, try to free some of the household income in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12156	It will be replicated now by the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12157	Here, so thank you. So I'd look back, I'd refer to the part of your presentation of a respected colleague, where you asked the question of what to do with the contract. It's very simple, the law is above contract. If the law states, and clearly states that the charge is not allowed, then no contractual provision can go against it because it would be harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12158	The turn for replication is the esteemed Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree entirely with my colleague's argument, and we're no one, I'm sorry, we're no one here against passing this law. But a little bit better when we think about it, we want to show up here and pass the law. I'm not gonna say it's as populist as my colleague used to tell me the other day, and I was really talking to a source of information, but this is really populist, looking on one side. Because we're like protecting consumers, and on the other hand we're peeling their skin. We'll protect him here through some of the limes he'll have to pay if he gets a warning like that. At the same time, we raise the prices of electricity, gas, water. What was said about public enterprises here, the home of the city of Zagreb, which is the largest, which really peels the skin of consumers, and we protect it here through the limes that will get from the bank. I don't agree with you colleagues, you're talking about the law. Each bank client that negotiated with a particular transaction bank also signed a certain contract. Why did he sign it? We won't talk about it. But let's not show ourselves here as great benefactors, we'll protect the consumer, and we've already killed him in the last six months by passing all these laws that we have, or which you have proposed here. Since the increase in VAT, where citizens will feel it in the fall, where they will feel when their bills come in the winter, and when they will only then realize what it is all about in the six months or eight months that have been made. Therefore, I agree that the law, but let us not show ourselves to help the consumer when we peeled his skin to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12160	This replica will be answered by representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, this part is, I didn't want to pick up the line there, but I'm gonna have to say something anyway. I mean so far, I say in that segment there was a mess and everyone was referring to the Law on Mandatory Relations of Article 295, so they were looking for space to solve it. But are we really going to end this law? Because I say there are clear contractual relations. What we did in the state, in the state, through the amendments to the General Tax Law, we warned the people of the flock, so on the so-called so-called. A pillar of shame, so you are publicly warned, please pay your debts. What are we doing here? We say it can be a warning, written, but it can't be an expense. What am I afraid of? I'm afraid that people who haven't been able to pay their dues so far, what they didn't have, that's what they forgot, what they didn't want. It may occur in some situations that banks will simply, not send a warning, but will activate contractual obligations, mortgages, and you will find out in court, on a notice board, that your facility, apartment, houses are on sale, without notice. And that's what they're right about. If we're going to apply to this law then and say, here's what it says there, and we're going to do it that way. So this isn't just such a simple subject, we've lifted something. There are relationships that need to be resolved to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12162	The reply was also reported by the respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12163	Oh, thank you. So here's what you've mentioned to the MP is the various fixed fees that are charged to us by anyone who can, among other things, and a fixed fee for using a wide-ranging internet. Well, that's the fact that there's really no reason, and we all as consumers pay various fixed fees for using different services. There's no deal, we're forced to, so it's not this, you're talking about us making contracts. We sign what they put or as consumers we have no other option, no matter what it is. Therefore, it is not an equal relationship in which the two parties conclude some kind of service contract. It is notable that the broadband Internet in the Republic of Croatia is one of the most expensive in the world. It's been written and spoken about for years, and that's how we develop the information society. But not only, and what the Croatian state does, forgives the 6% cut in teleoperators, who can charge for another year, from which almost 200 million kuna could be made. With nearly 200 million kunas, everyone could probably have free broadband for the next year. But not only that, but also for electricity prices, and for water prices, and for the prices of other utility services, in the last year, two days, various fixed items have been introduced that have not yet been available. And we actually have more and more fixed items in various services today. So less and less, in fact, the consumer pays what he uses, regardless of the accounting unit, and more and more there are various fixed items that he is actually given, regardless of which service it was. And I think that there is actually consumer protection today and that the consumer is actually in a worse position than he has ever been before, regardless of society and associations, and the Consumer Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12164	This replica is matched by MP Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12165	Thank you very much. Well, I think we all agree that the question of compensation is something that means the current power, but we all have to start thinking together. Because each of us from all parties also have at the local level our own authorities, our mayors, the mayors who manage through their own people and with communal companies, etc. I mean, here's an example, that when citizens join together or when something wants to stop, maybe here's an example of Krk, when the same relationship is created between people who are on the side, or who have a cottage. Who were supposed to pay bigger fees than those living there, so they managed to prevent it in some way through the Constitutional Court and all other institutions. The question of these fees, I say here, I will return to my island again, the place where I live I can't watch television. What I had to do, take Max TV so you could watch through the wire, to watch normal, means programs. Then, normally HTV cancels the sports part of the program, you can't look at anything, you have to take a sports package, it goes to the fee, it goes to the fast Internet fee. So it's already 210 kuna in general to watch the normal thing you want and TV. Can we really pay more in this time so much that we can just say look at something? It's a question for everyone and let me say it and the authorities say in the next time what she thinks about it or she will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12166	And the last in a long line of replicators is the esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12167	Thank you very much. Your esteemed colleague, your debate has been set in two directions. One question, therefore, is whether it will produce any effect on these contractual obligations, or whether it will only apply to newly created contractual obligations that will follow between consumers and banks. And what has already been signed, so the deal between banks and consumers will not, I wonder if it will not comply with this law, as counterpart Grbin says. The second part of your debate referred to the so-called fixed items, i.e. fees, so there really are examples I would say unreasonable and incomprehensible. Although it has long been built in Croatia, so the telephony network we continue to pay the phone fee, the fixed phone even here. Why am I saying that? Well, because in other countries of the developed world and Europe, the telecommunications operator offers to introduce you, so free of charge. He gives you a phone machine to use with him. Of course, by paying these impulses, you'll pay it off. We still have her. One more thing. So we have deaf, deaf, deaf persons, blind or weak-sighted persons paying for a TV subscription or so on. the fee. Maybe at a slightly lower, lower price, but if we're even looking at it, it's too much to say that they're normally paying for a TV subscription, a TV tax, a pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12168	Once again, we will hear the replying representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I think I'm saying this question to the end is not settled, especially the issue of our energy distributors, utility companies, etc. Because this morning I'm talking to my colleague, the parliamentary representative, and he says I'm paying my gas fee, and I don't have gas. You understand? It's something that we need to start thinking about whether we really have the right to do it, and I know that every company, and especially publicly in this situation, needs to look for additional sources of income because they're seeing we're missing electricity is obviously that the system as the vice president says before the shooting. But I don't know. But I'm saying these are the questions that maybe here's the law, the amendments and the additions to the law are the beginning and the time that's before us all is at our disposal I'm telling you that with our help and that we're saying something, so maybe we should listen to us so that here we all contribute together to making it easier for our citizen to live next to the words of all these accusations that have hit him over the past six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12170	Thank you. The individual debate will now continue with its step with the respected representative Mario Moharic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12171	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Consumer Protection Act was adopted for the first time in 2003 and this is the first legal mechanism to protect consumers' interests as their rights in the purchase of products and services for the personal needs of the New Consumer Protection Act was adopted in 2007 with amendments and additions in 2009 and this law is in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. Today's Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act brings two important newspapers, which are legal regulation of the right to time-limited use of timeshare, on long-term products for rest, resale and exchange. So this is about real estate or parts of real estate, apartments, holiday houses, rooms and the like, and there may be different movements such as yachts, boats, cruisers, car caravans and similar rentals. This is our country's relatively new business activity, which is gaining momentum. It is already very widespread in the countries of the European Union. With this legal regulation of this kind of trade, we're actually harmonising, equating the legal norms of the so-called. the timeshare with the European Union Directives concerned. Another newspaper in this Consumer Protection Law proposal is much more important for our citizens, and it concerns the collection of notices for the arrival and the unpaid claims of traders. In most cases, the banking sector is not excluded, but neither are tele operators nor many public companies such as HEP and other utility companies that have resorted to this type of punishment for their clients. But as I said, the poorest and most of this type of profit has been achieved by the banking sector. They almost formed a new product out of this bill, from which they pulled and which they represented, according to their statements, a decent source of profit. This decent source of profit for our bankers is measured in millions of kunas. The fact that an unequal and sometimes very high amount of notices by traders on the collection of claims of similar amounts of products and services leads to the situation that consumers other than existing debt and tight interest are burdened and the amount of notices which further increases their duty, all of which points to the necessity of adopting legal standards to protect citizens, consumers from such fines. Bankers don't collect millions on payouts only, but they don't collect more than 3 billion kunas annually in the form of different and any fees and commissions such as billing fees, check blanks fees, fees for various service packages, etc. Of course, all of this is not regulated by regulations, but banks use legal voids and they form them on their own without any supervision or obligation to explain the principles according to which they decide on their height. However, the end is nearing this banking ring, as it is likely that in the autumn of the parliamentary debate, there will be a Law on credit institutions that should cover both fees and commissions. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act will contribute to a higher level of consumer rights protection in the Republic of Croatia, and traders will be forced to make over-indebted citizens, consumers at the time of the collection of the amounts of products and services in addition to existing debt and tight interest no longer increase their duty by charging the notices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12172	Thank you. I am now giving my esteemed representative, Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. It is important to know that this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act is changed for the purposes of EU monitoring. However, the novelty that delights is a ban on the collection of reminders. This law needed to regulate one of the most frequent issues consumers face on a daily basis, and the reference to the collection of notices for arrival rather than the payment of demand for traders. The economic crisis, recession, high unemployment and over-indebted have had a significant impact on the timely implementation of the consumer's monetary obligations. A large number of consumers, not by their own free will, have been brought into the situation that they are unable to meet all their obligations on time. On the other hand, in an effort to collect their claims in order to ensure uninterrupted further business, traders took certain activities by delivering warnings to consumers reminding them of the need to settle their claims. Although in the opinion of some consumer associations, the Croatian legal system has never recognised the obligation. Therefore, gatherings in such associations say that these changes and additions bring nothing relevant to the position of citizens as consumers. When preparing this law, the possibility must be given to associations established and whose basic function is consumer protection, ultimately citizens of all of us, to give their opinion. We were contacted by the Consumers Company, noting that the law was done quickly, but that the amendments were not notified, let alone called for participation. To pass such a law, I think dialogue and communication is necessary because these associations are ours and your partners, both the Government and the Parliament, which should be consulted. They have ideas, suggestions and they can best pass on to us what is not good in the field. It was precisely this kind of cooperation that could be praised in 2009 when changes and additions to the Consumer Law were made at the time. Such consultation was necessary since a whole series of provisions as we have heard from colleagues in the Water Economy Financing Act, the Water Act, the Regulation on the minimum basic price of water services and the type of costs covered by water services, the fixed part of the monthly account of the tariff system for the supply of electricity, the general conditions for the provision of public services and banks, etc., prevent the application of this Consumer Protection Act. This is the way this law is passed without consulting the partners' associations again, our citizens remain unprotected on the most important issues. So although this law should allow for the right protection of all consumers, all of us, it remains aside when it comes to the most important costs of our citizens' prices of electricity, water, gas, interest on loans, etc. The Consumer Protection Act was passed in June 2003 by ensuring that all of us apply the protection of our rights and interests when buying products and services for personal use. The adoption of a new law in July 2007 and the amendments and additions of June 2009 Croatia's legislation is fully in line with the EU acquis in this area. Directives have been adopted from those related to the emphasising of prices on products to court orders for the protection of consumers' interests. With these changes, we should have gone one step further, but it took a little more time for it to go into regular procedure. What I am pleased about is the adoption of some common rules with EU Member States that should encourage greater growth and productivity. The area of application of the new law in the tourism segment under the notion of a tourist product are real estate and movables, then a long-term tourist product that allows consumers significant discounts when using tourist services. Since 2009, some changes have occurred in the tourism market, and given that tourism is gaining more and more importance in Member States' economies, it is very good that this law regulates it. Although this business activity has not yet been sufficiently developed in the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of the directive is expected to intensify this activity since the Republic of Croatia is a tourism country with a high potential that seeks good positioning in nautical tourism on the European market. Let us not forget that tourism is one of the few points of light in the general economic picture that we look forward to. In these difficult times, tourism is the biggest driver of the economy and the generator of total employment. So let us support these and all other amendments to the law that will make our beautiful one even better positioned on the tourist map of the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12174	Thank you. The debate will now include respected Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12175	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Deputys with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act is to a certain extent a harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU and in the section relating to directives which determine the issue of consumer protection, and therefore we therefore support the adoption of amendments and additions to the law itself. This amendment of the law certainly refers to the issue of market protection and the share of how it has already been spoken about earlier, or extends to new tourist products other than apartments, holiday houses and villas, and extends to other facilities such as boats, such as yachts, autocarved, so here is how this part of the tourist product is arranged. In particular, it is necessary to welcome the suspension of the fee that traders are in, and this has already been said in the discussion under the terms of the trader, as a rule, is understood and considered by banks and public undertakings that try their services. and it is good to abolish the billing of consumers upon delivery of a notice of payment or the cost of delivery of the notice itself. This should be supported, and I think it is also in the name of the club Mr. Popiè expressed our position and I think it is good that the significant resources that are being poured out of the pockets of Croatian citizens or consumers or users of services are good to stop in this way although we heard in the debate that it can be in a certain way and question whether the existing contractual relationship between traders and consumers can be changed by law, but this will be likely in the implementation of the law itself more words. However, in any case, it is necessary to support such a legislative provision that at least pro futuro should challenge, i.e. abolish, the possibility of additional cost which is the delivery of notices due to the failure to pay due claims. But it would be good for the Government to do its own thing, by proposing it, even when it is a trader, that the Government should also show this kind of insight towards Croatian consumers and Croatian citizens when the government is in the position of a trader, when it charges taxes or when in its name public companies charge for the provision of their services. For this opportunity, I have tried to determine how much in the past 6 months the government as a trader has been providing a service, i.e. by charging its claims, reduced the home budget, how much it has reduced the budget of an ordinary, average Croatian household, how much, through the introduction of its fees or by increasing existing fees, the government has entered into the pocket of an average Croatian family. First, if we are to calculate what it means for an average Croatian household to increase the VAT rate from 23% to 25%, then we will simply calculate from the documents provided by the finance ministry that an average Croatian family, in the name of an increase in VAT from 23% to 25%, will have to allocate about 3000 kuna annually more than it had to spend last year. Furthermore, we have heard about the collection of electricity by 20%, the collection of gas by 22%, and then when this is calculated and used on one Croatian household, then it is an annual new cost of 6000 kuna. And if that is the case, the fees previously covered and the fees to be charged in the delivery of the gas consumption account, which is a fixed fee approximately twice as high as the consumption of a pension home. And if a further fixed fee is added for the payment of water then another 500 kuna is one new annual contract for an average Croatian family. So only with an increase in VAT rates, with an increase in electricity and gas prices and the introduction of fixed fees for the same consumption will one average Croatian family pay more than 10000 kuna this year. If we continue to take care of the fact that the government is currently conducting negotiations with public sector employees and if the government succeeds in its intention not to pay public sector employees a Christmas card, it will not pay the regress, if the daily rate is reduced from 170 to 150 kuna, and if there is a reduction in the cost of past work from 0.5 per year to 0.3%, then one public sector employee this year or when a government decision like this takes effect, there will be 4000 kuna less income on the basis of compensation he received because he was employed in the public sector. At the same time, the costs of the average family are increasing, and on the other hand, public sector employees are reducing these incomes by around 4000 kuna. So all of this together leads to a decline in consumption, automatic consumption declines in both production and all together leading to further sinks in the crisis and recession. Therefore, although we support such a law, although we support its adoption, I think it is high time that the government takes its measures to encourage production, increase investment, and this will then clearly lead to new employment. Because as has already been said, in order for someone in Croatia to be a consumer in the first place, he must be employed. Therefore, by supporting such a bill, it seems to me that it is high time for the government to come out with a strategy, with too many measures that will boost production, which will lead to employment, which will then make it easier for Croatian consumers to meet their basic living needs, which will certainly be significantly reduced by such measures of the government. So on that trail, I gave my opinion of the existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12176	Two replicas have been reported. First esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister of Economy. Like I said, we will support this law. But we here are talking about how to protect citizens from those where the government can, can't have influence. Let's ask ourselves a question about how to protect the citizens from where the government has direct influence. Nobody here talks about the gas bill to those who have gas heating in the family house at 12 months is going to be more 400, 500, 600, 700 kuna depending on how big the house is, that his electricity bill will be more than 100 kuna, that from tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or the week after, the price of gasoline will not be higher by these 15 limes than 19 and something more lip because of the additional 25% of VAT. How are we going to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from an unsettled VAT increase, because if it was not justified three years ago, if it was a hack, I don't understand what the need for VAT to rise by 2% today is so much. I repeat, why let some go, pay back taxes, and then burden the citizens. 'Cause look at how decisions go, first someone's getting a little low, and then the citizens get carried away with it. At its last session, the government sent a decision to remove the tax, the sms imposing, and today they won't even send it to the Parliament, but it is legally allowed the government to raise excise duties on motor fuels by 15 lipa plus VAT, it will fall out somewhere 19 and something else slips. And we're here discussing how it won't be like this or a warning like that, and at the same time when you take how much the average citizen's notice costs compared to this increase that the family thinks more than 1000 kunas a month when it all comes together, we don't react to it. And I think we should react where we can react, and I think if we haven't hung up...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12178	I kindly ask you to bring the end, time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12179	One more sentence, please, if you'll excuse me. If we didn't bring down excise duties when the price was spinning up because of it and that's why I don't think we should even lift now that the price is going down.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12180	Here on a sharp replica will now be answered by the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12181	That's right, fellow Shuker. In fact, we can also question the credibility of the government when it makes its own decisions that increase prices and give consent to, for example, an increase in electricity prices. In fact, some consumer associations, I think, have filed a constitutional complaint whether the government was right and whether it could give consent to an increase in electricity prices. In fact, without the opinion of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, using its 2010 consent, the government has made it possible to increase electricity significantly more than that amount, from the percentage of which HERA has given its consent. Therefore, today we are discussing a law in which we want the protection of Croatian consumers, while at the same time the Government does not respect the same law in its own decision because it did not have the consent to increase electricity by 20%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12182	We're going to hear another replica, the gnome of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12183	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague here listens to you and listens to you. I've been listening to all of our talking agents. I would just like to tell you for years it has already been known that the government, the Zagreb government, or the SDP-HNS government, and that is a clear example and that on Holding, the SDP that is indeed the winemaker of everything. Well, you see, Holding turned Zagreb black. And in what way? Lately, they've now acquired a 251 new vehicle, they don't have to tell anyone why. Their salaries, they say our salaries are high but their wages are, believe us, 14 700, and theirs is 30 and something. So, their officials. They have the right to car, to private driver, to cards, to representations, to everything else, and the greatest right they've ever taken, and to tie this law to this: to raise all municipal services, absolutely all of them, and the latest thing they've done is to send citizens of the City of Zagreb to do, or to block accounts, and to the old bills, meaning 2004, 2005, 2006. So, citizens don't even know where these accounts are anymore, but they get to know each other very easily when they get to their own bank. So, I'd say this law is good, of course it is. On the one hand, we all need to be relieved of these reminders. In what way will it be charged, all I care about is that Holding is now doing the latest? So I would call him, you know, one of those beekeepers, a little honey and a spoon on the head. It seems to me that citizens of the City of Zagreb, as well as Croats, have been getting very often in the last 6 months with a spoon on their heads, and the Zagrebers believe for 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12184	We will now hear what the Honorable Mladen Marelic thinks of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with colleagues, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have a final proposal for the Consumer Protection Act. We remember when the past government led us to a difficult financial situation in the state as well as the public, I think that this law will fix what they have done before, which could have improved a lot earlier, allow businesses not to charge what they charge for so far. When we see that many companies, especially banks that have collected large funds to collect notices, today we have the usual practice by HRT that hotels that are closed during winter or apartments, and especially those hotels that are supplied with TV receivers are regularly charged by all their costs throughout the winter. So it mostly ends with warnings, executions, and ultimately court disputes. I would also draw attention to a non-quality program, providing TV reception programs by transmitters and connections. We have a situation that citizens, I think, and in this House we parliamentary representatives from the island have received remarks that they can't even monitor a TV program that is being charged neatly every month. So it all ends with litigation. Since it's become a digital program that most of the island has no program at all, especially now, I'm talking about Korčula, the southern side of Korcula and some places on the island of Korucula. It also happened that during the summer, when the yachts sail the Adriatic, the Italians on the other hand boost their signals by making little of what was and it disappears. So we already know normally when big cruisers go then and that little signal disappears. But that's why bills come neatly and charge themselves. These are really problems that have arisen with households. These households can't pay for it all, and that's why I'd like it to be with this law and that part, what's not being used and can't be charged. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12186	Thank you very much. The last person to apply for an individual hearing is the distinguished representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only talk about some parts of this law, which was once again probably high-speed because it was in danger of the security of the state or some other important reason, so we decided to have an emergency procedure, so I would like to comment on some of the articles or provisions of this law that I hold that the applicant did not consult enough experts who could refer him to the problems that this law would cause. For example, in Article 3 of the proposal, the Government is referring to the applicable right to certain relations based on the contract, and it is said that although the relevant foreign right is to some of the contracts of Chapter 10 of this Act, it will not be applicable but will apply this law if it is to protect consumers who, by applying foreign law, would be deprived of the consumer. I'm afraid this provision in the law, of course, is not listening, but maybe he'll have time to listen to the phonogram, so he'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12188	Please allow the Deputy Minister to listen to the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12189	This law is thus directly contrary to the principles of international private law and the provisions regulated by international private law. And in this way, the Consumer Protection Act cannot intervene in a law where the applicable law is determined by the basis of another law and in accordance with international rules or regulations. The same thing, or similar objection, can be placed on certain provisions that speak of consumer rights for one-sided termination of the contract, or pre-contracts, so some new deadlines are introduced, when the right ceases within 1 year and 14 days, or 3 months and 14 days. Thus, this law enters directly into the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, the provisions on purchases that should also apply to these relations. If this is a special law for such cases, then it should be seen that this law is in collapsing with the provisions of the law which addresses the issue of purchase and that the relevant right will also be in such contractual relations. This law, with several of these provisions, brings us to legal uncertainty, brings us to the issues that the provisions will be and which law will be relevant to certain contractual relations. And since the Law on Mandatory Relations applies to all contractual relations, this law excludes these provisions of the law and I think it will bring us into practice in the position that neither this nor the Law on Mandatory Relations can be applied. When the government had already had a desire and intention to further protect consumers, it needed to consider both quality and legal certainty and this text of the law. Especially about the standards that are in collegiate with the provisions of other laws. And I therefore appeal once again to the Proposer, that Article 3 and Article 11 of this Act, before voting, have been well checked and seen whether these provisions have violated the provisions of some other laws, which will regulate this matter in an inadmissible way. And I just wanted to say by the way, when we're talking about consumer protection, as consumers, we can also contact here, and say that we would hold the initiative much more valuable. For example, if the Government had imposed an obligation on the trade chains, the merchants of individuals, that the declarations of foreign products that we meet daily on our shelves, would be mandatory runways with a logo that is legible without microscopes. And probably the experience of each of us who visited any store is that you can no longer read the declaration of products, manufacturers, country of origin in Croatian at all. Because if traders stick to these obligations, they meet that obligation in a way that gives you stickers or logo labels that only pilots or individuals in particular can read at all. The obligation remains neither government nor the foundation of its inspection services nor the regulations of the ministry imposes on traders and thus leads consumers astray in some way. Often you cannot determine the origin of the product, the duration of the product, and in particular all that the declaration of the imported products must contain. And lastly, because that's also within the Ministry of Economy, and it's also a matter of consumer protection, just by the way. By driving along the highway from Zagreb to Rijeka you can testify by yourself, only the highway route today that there are huge ads, of ten and more square meters that talk about individual chains, I will not name them, in German. You have advertising in English, but none of these ads along that foreign language have the same advertising or call for customers and in Croatian. And I believe it would be a subject that deserves to be found in some kind of government obligation to protect its consumers. Because no matter who the commercials were meant for in German, since they were foreign chains. I believe that this is a much bigger issue than the consumer's right to be familiar with the value or quality of the product and that such things must be banned and that the Government must have instruments to defend, that foreign chains should advertise their products and their chain in foreign languages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12190	Thank you, too. Now we'll hear two final five-minute debates on behalf of the clubs. First on behalf of the HNS club, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12191	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Deputy Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Introducing the HNS, the HNS club will support this law, believing that it is in any case a positive step in the protection, as Don Ivan said, "a citizen of the Republic of Croatia", not only of consumers. They might not have even reported this closing statement if this debate on consumer protection had not been dominated by the issue of gas collection, electricity collection. And there are some things that need to be seen realistically and told the truth. Once it's time to clear up in the shortest lines. As for the collection of electricity as a blow to consumers, it is a measure and it is an unpopular measure that we have not only brought to others, but as people who deal with politics, I again quote Don Ivan "Not Politics", we have brought to our attention the fact that the primary imperative is to keep HEP on its feet. And that's exactly the case today, the power went out in this assembly, lucky that the Parliament has an aggregate, but the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the economy of the Republic of Croatia have no aggregates. In 2008 and 2010, HERA adopted the opinion already that it was necessary to correct the electricity price, that it was necessary to correct the electricity price, it was not done. Why didn't the ruling set do it then? I don't want to do any speculation at all, and I wouldn't look back on it. The collection of gas and other energy collections stem from two facts. One thing is that we are not an energy independent country, we are importing energy, we are paying these energy products on the world market at world prices, and the other is that we are part of the world market and that the decisions are political on Croatia's inclusion in the world market, a liberalised market in which world prices are made almost by consensus in this Assembly in previous mandates. And these are the real facts of ladies and gentlemen, as well as the collection of VAT, the increase in VAT which you, as a measure, made during your reign, made one opportunity from 22% to 23% because you had certain reasons very likely motivated by the need to consolidate the state budget. You are deeply aware that this government is struggling to maintain an acceptable credit rating of this country. [[/Intruding Stazic: Dear fellow Shuker, please do not throw from the bench. You are obstructing the speaker needlessly.]] You know very well, especially those of you who have dealt with finance that there is no room for further borrowing and that as a society, we have lived in a proportion between what we earn and what we really spend. It's a model we've been able to afford and that committee has been going to feel generations away for the past 20 years. I don't want to go into the analysis of why it was done like that, maybe it had to be done. But the fact is, we can't do it anymore. Politics is, therefore, the art of making decisions but also the discipline of making decisions. And the worst that we could do at this point and for the country's energy and fiscal stability, is not to make any decisions financially. We're the government that's been given the trust of citizens to make decisions. And we make these decisions not only for citizens we don't know, but we make them for our relatives, parents, brothers, sisters, family members, acquaintances, ultimately for ourselves. For this reason, we will make decisions that are possible, which are opportunised for citizens, which will help to protect citizens' rights, the social status of citizens and the position of citizens, which is this decision in which we had the courage, unlike some of the predecessors, to oppose even the largest financial entities in Croatia, which are Croatian banks. For these reasons, the Croatian People's Party will continue to seek to make decisions that will have such a character for the benefit of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12192	We have several corrections to this exhibit of incorrect allegations. First, the correction of the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12193	Thank you very much. Here I am correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Baranovic, who said HEP should be kept on its feet. It is not true to my colleague Baranovic, and it cannot be an excuse for you to keep HEP on your feet by increasing prices. In 2010, HEP was under the most difficult conditions when you dried the trees and stones to the thief, to everything that was happening in HEP, and achieved the profit of 800 million kuna. In 2011, something less and I'm sure that Croatia's electricity industry has huge reserves within the system, and these consumers would be protected if they were to do so first. And if you are committed to introducing order in institutions, here is an opportunity to do so in Croatia, and to free consumers from price increases and that you have absolutely no excuse for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12194	You're aware, of course, of your colleague Lucic, of course, that this wasn't any sort of correction to an incorrect quote, you know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12195	Says who? I said there's no excuse to raise prices. You always have someone...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12196	Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12197	... I apologize for the inaccuracies of my colleague Baranovic that the debate on the price hike and everything that has been said here is politics. [[Specially enabled.]] It's not politics. It's not politics, because if you say you're going to support the law but you need to discuss it in the future and that's not politics. But for the sake of the Croatian public and for the sake of truth in 2010 no matter what someone wrote in HERA, the price of electricity did not rise because it was a great hydro year. So that year, we had huge production from our own sources, and that's why we didn't raise the price. And that's the politics of my colleague Baranovic when you're incorrectly using something that's not good. And the other thing you said when the VAT rose at the most difficult times in 2009. Remember what you talked about. I'll never tell my colleague Linic or my colleague Cacic because that's not how I discussed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12198	Next correction, Đuro Popioč.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12199	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course, the same conclusion that the increase in electricity was not due to the need to save HEP, because, as we know in Croatia other than HEP today, other legal entities can sell electricity. However, the essence is precisely in the problem and in the way that the current government has access to management and energy companies, including the absurdity that has taken place in personneling. So for example, here is the last example where you install a man who has absolutely nothing to do with oil in life. So, he's a bank clerk, and you're replacing a recognised oil expert. Also in HEP, etc. So, what results will be behind your government, unfortunately, we'll just see.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12200	Domagoj Milosevic is a representative who will correct the next incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12201	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is an incorrect assumption that this government has done everything to preserve Croatia's credit rating. Unfortunately, those who evaluate our credit rating understand that raising VAT and anti-entrepreneurship climates in Croatia will definitely not preserve our credit rating.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12202	And last correction, the esteemed Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12203	Well, I would correct the incorrect assumption that the reason for the accumulation of gas is the fact that Croatia is an energy-dependent country. Since the Republic of Croatia produces almost 65% of its gas needs from its own sources, I think this thesis is not true but is actually political demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12204	Now we will also hear the conclusions of the five-minute club of HSU representatives. They will be transferred by the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12205	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this topic of consumer protection is a topic that will always occupy us and that will never be completed. It is true that this bill has not yet answered the question why television subscription must be paid by those who do not see the signal. It is true that this proposal for laws which do not receive or do not see certain programmes. It is true that this law did not answer the question of what if someone is wrongly advertised. If you've noticed lately in the daily press there's a pension commercial after the 50th. I tried to investigate what kind of pension it was after the '50s, no one retired after the '50s except for a disability can go but commercials appear in the daily press. As far as I know, someone could provide life insurance with a rent they could receive monthly, but it's not a pension, and I think it's advertising that's not in accordance with our legal regulations. Of course, this bill does not process what does not exclude that tomorrow in another novel it will not do. And the current novel I think is progress in relation to the previous situation and I think that, or the HSU club will support this bill. But what motivated me to answer is one personal problem, and I would like to discuss at one personal level, the level of one of our fellow citizens in the 83rd year of life that had another 1995 solution to the charge for water. Imagine this is the solution to the execution of the municipal civil court in Zagreb activated on 7 March 2012 and made a proposal for an execution and took down the lady in 83 years of life one third of her pension and she came all out of her mind because instead of 2,400 kn pension she received 1,600 and it was explained that it would still be three months. I do not dispute the right of the municipal company to try to collect all the benefits rather than the claims charged, but the Mandatory Relations Act knows the three-year-old general deadline and then no one has the right to 3.7 of an absolute 10-year-old age, so there are deadlines of limitations. After that, no one has the right to charge their claims anymore. But that's not the end of the story. After the first payment of the first commission, there comes a notice that totaled the same communal fee from 1996 to 15.01.2012 and informs the lady that the debt is 1,530 kuna and tightens interest still 2,400 kuna. So the warning's about to go off. Look, of course, citizens can't avoid paying either, but it's the duty of every service to send a warning and that at a time when it's usual to collect their claims. What is the problem with consumer protection? I'm drawing a conclusion, so it's not a problem with our laws, we don't have a system that defends citizens who can block something like this. Of course, as a party, we helped the lady, we referred her to an old-fashioned claim, of course we referred her to the Ombudsman, of course we referred her to the attorney's question to the minister of justice, and we sent a letter to the municipal firm. ... I'm done, we've done everything we can to help the citizens. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] I say, there is no problem with laws. There is no consumer protection system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12206	Finally, the Deputy Minister of Economy, Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, will address the Parliament on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all the MPs and MPs for the debate and I appreciate the general support of this final bill. The debate, of course, triggered other topics, so let me take advantage of the occasion in some way and the debate over this law is ultimately directed at a topic that may have been heard at the border during the debate, but I think given the large number of present leaders at the level of local self-government units. Speaking of a consumer protection system and responsibility for promoting and strengthening consumer protection systems, we all mentioned the responsibility in verticals at every level to promote consumer protection through consumer protection associations and through already functioning consumer counselling centres. Someone called the association or counselling the first line of defense between our citizens and traders on the other hand, and that's very true. These are valuable people gathered through associations of valuable people gathered through counselling centers that respond daily to several dozens and calls and written questions, offer advice either as volunteers or as paid advisers. But what is the point and what she would use on this occasion as an opportunity to highlight is, apart from the executive government, except for the Ministry of Economy, in this particular case, the responsibility for improving the consumer system lies on the units of local self-government in those cities where associations operate especially in those cities where county and city councils for consumer protection work. Let me say that ever since the concept of consumer protection has been introduced into the Croatian legal system through the legal framework that the state has been monitoring associations and consultants with nearly 13 million kunas, around the annual level of our ministry monitors as many associations and consumer protection consultants as possible with an average of one million and a half kuna. We'll all agree that's insufficient. Of course, we would like to be in a position, for example, in the Federal Republic, to monitor Germany's consumer protection system with several million euros, but we cannot do so in size or economic terms. But what can we do? We can share that responsibility, and we often ignore it. And so this way I appeal to all levels of promotion, opportunities to improve the consumer protection system that units of local self-government also add efforts that work both financially and spatially through the rental of therefore through any form of support from associations active in their fields, help Consumer Protection Advisory. I will only list those perhaps the most agile, most positive example that they donate to advisory and associations through a series of reliefs so that citizens from these areas can make good quality, quick and continuous advice on their rights through these locally employed people. Here is Pula, Zadar, Osijek, Zagreb, Varazdin, these are cities that are completely consummating the obligations of the Consumer Protection Act, so that's the obligation. Often we get suggestions from associations and encourage few units of local self-government in whose areas we work, refresh their memory of the legal obligation under the Consumer Protection Act to help us, that we do not have to go to the ministry for every step, that we do not have to address each step and every need. I therefore use thanks, of course, to remind all of us of the shared responsibility that we have in improving, financing, or in any other way to facilitate and encourage the further work of associations and consumer counselling centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12208	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the text of the law, and we will vote when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 108. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 88 votes in favour and 25 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys and MPs. A few introductory words relating to the draft law amending and supplementing the Security Verification Act. Namely, the Security Verification Act prescribed that a thorough security check be carried out for persons appointed or appointed for duty. These security checks are divided into three degrees: first, second and third degrees and on the basis of such security checks can be accessed by classified data which are also marked with very secret, secret and confidential. The security verification of the first degree carried out on the basis of a security verification questionnaire shall further ensure that the procedure is made available to public sources, official records, databases, competent security intelligence agencies, other state and public bodies, then that the records of the personal data collection, business and other official documentation, then the mandatory conversation with the verified person, the interview with the persons designated by the applicant as the reference person, the interview with other persons assessed by the competent security-intelligence agency carrying out the security clearance procedure. I must point out that according to the provision of Article 20. The Security Verification Act also provides that the Director of the Security Intelligence Agency may also apply a secret data collection measure to the person for which the verification is carried out. On the basis of the verification to be carried out, which of course must be carried out, even a polygraph examination of the person may be applied to verify the data indicated in the questionnaire. This so far solution that we have had on security-intelligence verification has more practical problems. Namely, persons selected on duty or appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and who have received confidence that the Prime Minister and Ministers are subsequently screened by the Security Intelligence Agency on the basis of the questionnaires must agree to all these types of checks involving their life habits, attitudes, from the age of 18 to the day of the verification, the discussion of the Security Intelligence Agency with other persons and the inquiry of them, the possibility of requesting to submit a polygraph examination and the measure of secret collection of data on them. After that, upon completion of that security-intelligence check, it shall be submitted to the head of the body which may respect it, or on the basis of which it shall be placed. It is not necessary for such an obstacle to the one who has requested a security check, that is, by law, as resolved by automation that this must be done. Also, in times that occur when you need a far greater number of appointed persons who last about 30 to 35 days is a minimum for achieving this, which burdens a significant system and these security checks ultimately lead to people being able to access these documents for which they most often do not get the same. For this reason, it is proposed to amend the Security Verification Act in this section, which is to make the same verification and to carry out the verification of each appointed official, but based on the third-degree security verification methodology. It excludes this part that I was talking about questioning, polygraphs, covert data collection measures and the like. It was done by means of records and based on the same would be an official who had been appointed as an opportunity to access such documents. I must point out immediately that there is no speech on the reduction of security clearance criteria for persons who need to access NATO standards or such documents. It shall remain the same obligation, regardless of which it was concerned and such a certificate may be obtained only on the basis of a first-degree security check. In the bill of law, I must point out that the procedure that is being done continues to provide for the possibility that the head of the body may request a thorough security check, so that part is equated with regard to the persons with those officials who have so far so far, so I'm going to say they didn't have to go to check now. A circle of those appointed or appointed or named would otherwise be blocked by a complete procedure, and we believe that the verification based on the third-degree verification criteria is sufficient for each person to be appointed. In this respect, it is also an amendment or a proposal to amend the Data Securitisation Act in which, of course, you can have access to classified data only if you have a certificate and all of those persons, such as parliamentary representatives, ministers, state secretaries from your work, I must mention, from their work, they can access classified data, but they must all be obliged to sign, i.e. a document issued by the Office of the National Security Council and, on the basis of that paper, undertake to know the obligation to protect the confidentiality of the data to which they access. This would solve the situation of all these security checks for officials, it turned out to be almost 1,000 people, at least in this first wave of burden on this system with all the complicated procedures, and would achieve exactly the same effect that was made. I wouldn't particularly add to this go thousands of other people who have already been screened, of course, in systems that are related to USKOK, to all those bodies. It may not be a bad thing if such a practice should, of course, be applied from now on, because so far it has been a matter of certification of something that was not an opportunity or a way to decide whether to become or not a minister or set in another position. Note, there is no reduction in criteria because all of this can be achieved in the same way. And I think the thing should be observed in a way that the data provided by the services can be sufficient to allow anyone who asks for a security check to assess whether or not that person has an obstacle or does not have a polygraph test that is provided for without covert listening measures relating not only to eavesdropping but to everyone else that someone has to agree to in order to obtain a certificate. Not to mention talking to neighbors and anything that requires serious time and service engagement. Here's so much for this, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12212	I would like to thank the Ministers for their opening statement. I'm opening a debate. The first one was registered by HDZ Representatives' Club, counterpart Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12213	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to start this debate with two examples. Ten years ago, we had a chance to read in the paper how the American president appointed an ambassador to me as Israel, but that ambassador didn't get a certificate for working with classified documents, classified documents, and he couldn't go to work. Another example is what continues today in the American Congress and the Senate and the UK, for example. that members of the Intelligence Committee, or what we call national security, are not voted by Parliament, Congress or Senate, but club presidents agree on who will be members of those committees because they have to pass the verification. On the other hand, those who have that certificate may also have access to operational data in such a way that representatives of the reporting community can tell representatives who do not have a certificate to leave the room because they do not have access to it. What's going on with us with these changes, the additions to the law? First of all, there isn't, not only is there no verification for top officials, but the circle of officials has spread. On the other hand, it is said of those assistant ministers from ministerial assistants to directors of agencies to judges of all courts, to government spokeswoman there is also no verification for them unless the head of the institution requests verification. If there's no checks, there's actually no certificate for working with those documents. This is contrary to the signed contracts that Croatia signed not only with NATO but also with the EU, and with all these other services, and a number of foreign ministry ministries, the Ministry of Defence, the interior ministries have obligations and work with these classified documents. The very questionable thesis of the promoter is that there will be no change simply because there is a gap in the law. It is said that these officials to be requested for verification will be subject to a third-degree verification. In other words, these officials will get the standard, they will get the certificate, and therefore they will be able to work with these documents. On the one hand, if that is the case, it will be a twist, i.e. a failure to comply with the rules already signed with international partners, and on the other, it is obvious that a double standard is being introduced. A double standard is introduced according to our own data that we classify as secret and very secret in relation to documents that come through NATO or the EU. I think the minister can also confirm to you, and others from the National Security Council Office and the Information System Security Institute that the level of data protection that we are going according to NATO standards is far greater than the protection of our classified documents and data. I don't know if you're interested in that at all, but neither the government nor most of the ministries have a certificate on the security of information systems that they should have under the law. Therefore, all the consequences of such a bill. On the one hand, the surveillance system established through the National Security Council office will simply begin to collapse. Because the office will no longer have the opportunity, nor will it be able to confiscate certificates to those who do not properly treat documents, classified documents. It goes so far as to actually put on the will of individual officials whether they will even include a certain number of people working with these documents in that circle that should take care of classified data. Therefore, it is one big step towards establishing a system, backwards in establishing an information security system. And there is another unwanted political consequence, and that is the question of who from the competent services and the competent institutions will dare to question the trust of officials and all those who have contact with classified data, if operational, if any. It's simply because it's claimed and it's explained on the board, not a question of trust. If someone has gained confidence in the elections, if someone has gained confidence in the Parliament, if someone has received confidence in the government, it is not considered to be subject to additional checks. I think there's a fam here, that doesn't matter that information today is one of the basic instruments of national power. Thus, information is sometimes more important than money or similar values. Therefore, the issue of security, information security, is one of the key issues of stability and the development of society. But we have here and another one, you know, it's justified here, among other things, we've heard the minister say two things that are quite questionable, quite questionable. It has been said that almost 1,000 more people need to pass this kind of check. We heard the beginning of this House's call that there would be only new ones, about 100, 200 and something of the officials, now it's about 1,000. And we've heard there's no downsizing. And it's been said open we're only going to this third degree check, not the previous degrees. Unfortunately, in a political sense, it's kind of logical of who we are, that we've been listening to these six months in the Parliament. Somewhere at the beginning, at the very beginning of the meeting of this Assembly, it was said that no public tenders were needed for the boards of directors, that we were not interested in the qualifications of people, because we want people of trust in those places. This law goes one step further in this and it is literally said that people of the trusts that we're putting simply legally will not, legally we won't check, or formulate the law that they can't be checked. It is unfortunately a major step backwards in relation to existing laws, in relation to the situation where we have daily that leak information, that leak information, not what is meant by some officials or employees, but primarily by primary users. And by sanctioning this classified information, it simply does not happen, or very little, in this regard. We must say that, though, is not just the state of the last six months, but it is one long-standing practice in our society. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club has no basis to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12214	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12215	Here's Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. This proposal for a Law amending the Data Privacy Act and a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security Checks Act, as explained in the reasons for the fact that it is written, as well as the current reasoning of the Minister. We conclude in fact that this comes from simply, from the inability of the anti-intelligence sector of the Republic of Croatia to actually carry out those security checks within that scope that were set and defined by that law. Especially in light of the fact that they have expanded the circle of officials to whom these checks apply. As far as this is concerned, then in any case, the responsibility for any failures that will result from the amendments to these laws will go to the expense of whoever takes responsibility for such decisions. Maybe we should say clearly then, here's our anti-intelligence system, it just can't, it's capacitated, it has no resources, it can't succeed, it can't actually carry out these extensive checks of that number of government officials that should be under the current legal framework. In a way to scare with a polygraph, it may not be the most serious thing, or perhaps the minister knows how many government officials have been on a polygraph so far under the background of security first-degree checks. And I don't think there were many of them. So I don't think a polygraph should be too interested in that. I say, we'll be held back in principle, we won't be against it. So if your assessment of the minister is that at this point this sector can't do it and that it needs to be omitted simply, ease the level of these security checks to the lower we'll take responsibility, vote it so. We'll be restrained. But what concerns us more when it comes to this counterintelligence throughout the sector and civil and military are what are actually the facts that occurred in the previous time and what is actually left, which is left to hang in the air, which is what this sector and this system actually, in which way it carried out or carried out its task actually being assigned to it. So security checks are certainly not the core tasks of that entire system. So, we know ourselves that the Serbian terrorists most wanted, with the most wanted, walked the city of Zagreb, lived freely in the city of Zagreb for years, that they were eventually decapitated heads in the city of Zagreb, that these were the accounts. So that was the part of the business that just belonged to that sector. And how many still have passport problems today, with hundreds or thousands of passports and their takeover and distribution, the entire criminal organisation has also been tasked against the intelligence sector and the MUP, which has obviously not been done in recent years. Another important phenomenon that we were also faced with would therefore have formed a wide-ranging corrupt octopus at the top of the state government that worked for years, in which apparently many had not participated. It appears that the only anti-intelligence sector of the Republic of Croatia which has the task of defending the national interest and the national sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia was not sufficiently informed or participated in any way to prevent it. The third phenomenon that also concerns us about the work of the entire sector is the fact that the highest public and state officials go to various unofficial private and non-public visits to various embassies of foreign countries accredited in the Republic of Croatia without any official grounds, without any record of these events, and sometimes we wonder why these people visit these embassies and what the topics of these working meetings are with these ambassadors since notes about some of these meetings have appeared among the notes, those numerous notes that came out through Wikileaks. We believe that these are far more important topics of overall work of the entire sector than the level of security checks of government officials. So we're going to, I say, be restrained about this. So if your assessment is that at this point the capacities are such, when the services can't carry out that level of security checks, so take responsibility, vote this out and we'll refrain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12216	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came from counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to us, the Act of Change of the Law on the Secrecy of Information as well as the Security Checks Act. Namely, my first question in this assembly was whether checks were made for officials appointed as ministers, deputy ministers, ministerial assistants, directors, and in the subsequent sequence and those who became cabinet heads, governments, ministries, jobless workers, and it was seen that although it was a legal obligation, although it was a standard that we harmonised with European legislation, although it is an emergency today it is becoming a worthless thing. It becomes another part that is easily viewed and easily available and changed without real consideration of things that are objective. Because the use of very secret or state classified information certainly cannot be made available to all and cannot be in the hands of those who would abuse it and who would manipulate or do any exchange without permission, consent and without the knowledge of those who must take care of national security. With this extension to access classified data, that without a certificate, they can do so a wider circle of people who are listed in this final proposal for a confidentiality law, I am sure that even to this day they are not those who read and use the data have not passed the checks because no one has asked. The prime minister's answer was that he didn't actually know that the necessity and need for officials appointed to obtain a security check. It is a fact as the minister said as soon as possible in 30 days. For so many people, it certainly takes great capacity and agencies and services to do so. We certainly allow this law to be re-appointed to the duty of one who is already in court proceedings, one who has misused his signature as a citizen, and has become an official in charge of duty without order and borders, not recognising those debts, and today there is one of the officials or directors or state secretaries or as more called functions established by the new system and using all available information about all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and it is he who has not worked properly. Therefore, security checks and which should be made for officials in due time before their appointment so as not to happen failures as they have been so far. By the way, I'm going to ask the Minister of the Interior if the Government has obtained for all officials appointed as the law requires checking for all ministers, their deputies, assistants for all directors, is that what you have so far in the government, and is that settled positively? Do those who have stains and who can't pass the security check do you intend to relieve them of your duties? These are the questions that you are trying to offend after 6 months of government now, and they are in line with European legislation, with the European acquis one more step to break back what we have already brought, signed, harmonised, what we have done for officials at the highest level, because for them we really need and responsibility, and regardless of the support of citizens who have received on the lists, there are always those who pass on to someone else's name and later become officials and without verification, when they come to information and have the systems and opportunities to monitor those citizens who are honest and honest and abuse their position again, it is too late when they get caught with their fingers in a jam, to say that there has been a failure, so we haven't done a good check or did a breach, we haven't done it at all in good time and before the appointment. I believe that in these amendments and additions to the law, it was not meant to be easy to give the possibility without a certificate of access to classified data to all those who are not even chosen by the people but are appointed by personal assessment and friendships whether the Minister, the Prime Minister, are employed without competition and that their references do not meet the real needs that are for these jobs. Therefore, the security system of the Republic of Croatia must be certified and placed at a lower level of security for all those officials appointed. So it happened that first-degree rulings meant nothing to today's government because it can also appoint a member of the administration and deputy minister or director of a public firm who already has a first-degree verdict. This is inadmissible and this cannot be done in a normal system that is responsible for its citizens. This cannot be corrected today by such amendments to the Security Verification Act as well as by the Data Securitisation Act. It can't be clouded anymore because it's already missed. It was missed in the first month in first appointments and employment. It's missed and no return. It can't be fixed. The damage has already been done, the system has already been violated, and this is only the legitimacy for such behaviour that, through the Data Securitisation Act and on a minor security check as well as a personal signature on the availability of data, only gave legitimacy to such failures made in the very beginnings of establishing a new state authority. ... doesn't care about the damages and the decision-makers themselves have been done with those officials who are acting today and are only subject to suspicion that they can't be in such high places without checking with what's criminal on their backs that they haven't done honorably and honestly so far. Therefore, it is difficult to support such amendments and amendments to the laws because they are contrary to what we have signed with the European Commission, which we have brought into line with European legislation and which is Europe's acquis I will be against the adoption of such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12218	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit, a colleague called Drazen Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12219	Thank you. A respected colleague voiced concern that someone's name would be held responsible for their duties without passing security checks. So I would remind you that security checks have passed by people who have won elections in their name such as Mr. Sanader's former Prime Minister, such as Mr. Berislav Roncevic, such as Mr. Barisic, such as Mr. Polancec, such as Mr. Cobankovic, are all former ministers. They all passed security checks but apparently those security checks didn't help much. And people who made contracts in Croatian roads with... Media went through security checks. Obviously something didn't work out later. So it's not that much of a thing in these security checks, even though there were elements in security checks before when we saw that the property of certain officials doesn't correspond at all to what they acquired from their work while serving in the state service, what they acquired not to match their property. Clearly, these security checks have also not shown it, nor have they helped much. So, I don't think the point of security checks is the functioning of a rule of law which I hope will finally start to work and that no one will think that, with security checks and no security checks, it's more involved in these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12220	I thank you for the reply to the replica of my colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12221	Well, here's Mr. Representative fellow, we have to be aware that MPs don't pass security checks, and from the ranks of MPs they don't go through security checks, but their deputies, their assistants, directors, state secretaries, cabinet heads, spokesmen, they're necessary to be checked so they don't get in trouble as Ferencac HNS's, as Kalambura SDP's, and if you want further that he hasn't yet mentioned names, he might as well. And they're doing a responsible job on very responsible duties, and they were ironing cards without order and they didn't want to admit it. And until today, they haven't returned the money they took to the banks or returned the loans, so they're doing their job. We also have to talk about it, yes, it is a crime and sin, such as Sanader and Barishicev, and so is Ferenchakov and Kalamburin. But in order not to do so, it is necessary to do as the European Union legislation says, as we have harmonised it and what the acquis should be respected in all segments in order not to happen and repeat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12222	Thank you. Next up for discussion, a colleague named Ana Lovrin reported. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12223	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's interesting, I notice on this display that there is nothing to say about such an important law for a country that, for particularly important state reasons, is being brought in by an emergency procedure that none of the rulings have anything to say or explain to us and the general public why it is very important to pass this law, why it is good and necessary for the state to pass so quickly. Mr. Minister pointed out and connected these two laws, listing which types of security checks exist, which are the degrees of these security checks and who must pass them and in the Privacy Act which is a circle of people who, without a certificate, have access to all the data and to those very confidential, very secret, secret and confidential. Therefore, it is the following that the amendments to the Security Verification Act establish that the security check for persons who are named or appointed is not mandatory now. We heard, to clarify this to the public, that this is about what the Minister of the 1,000 people said, so we heard well, 1,000 officials today in the system of state administration have according to the minister. At the end of the 12th month last year, we passed laws on the state administration system, an organisation of the state that was said to be abolishing the secretary of state because the number of state officials was piled up, that it would be reduced by a new structure. We then challenged it and said that there would be an increase in the number of government officials, of course you told us it wasn't true. But here we heard today, the SOA is busy with business and would have to carry out checks for 1,000 people, according to the minister. So many people are on the state budget with government salaries. What's this about? It is that, under the current law, persons who are appointed or appointed on duty had to undergo a security check and a thorough security check. It still remains, therefore, in the law that persons appointed as government officials and persons in the security intelligence system and persons in specialised bodies for the control of crime and corruption and persons in bodies and facilities of special importance, etc., for a number of persons. But the main distinction and the main reason is in reason, I read from the reasoning of this law, to say by implementing the existing law, so this existing legislative solution says it can cause more problems in practical application. And I am now reading the argument that persons elected to office and appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia because they received the trust of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministers afterwards imagine being screened. Well, like that dear God said you got my trust so no one should look at it anymore. And Mr. Prime Minister and the ministers might not have had the gaffs that happened to them if they had had security checks and that the law had been implemented so far. Because, note, we're just talking about a bill amending, and under the current law, those persons appointed on duty had to pass the check, and then the prime minister wouldn't be surprised if he appointed to certain duties of the person against whom the criminal proceedings were being brought, against whom the indictment was brought. I wouldn't be surprised if he intended to name or name persons who had a first-degree conviction for abuse of position and now that I didn't, there was still that, but it wouldn't have been brought to such unpleasant situations that I didn't know afterwards, or if I knew otherwise, because I would have had a security check that would give him information about it. So now those security checks weren't there. I don't know if, in an attempt to implement the applicable law, it has been established that a good number of those 1,000 people, as far as is now said, have government officials, may not have met the security clearance conditions, so they would have to remain unnamed, so it was easier to change the law and say that we would not deal with it. Another absurd of this law. He says those who are appointed to state duties don't go for security checks, but they go if he asks for a leader. Even if he asks for a leader, then they'll go for a third-degree security check. The third-degree security check shall be provided for all those persons who have access to classified information in their part of the business that is classified as confidential, so to the third-degree. And now interestingly, persons appointed to executive official duties, and I note these are persons who have passed the public tender and who still have to be accepted in accordance with, say, the Law on civil servants, so they will not be able to be admitted to work if criminal proceedings are conducted against them. They will have to pass first-degree checks, and these senior officials, if there is a check, will be only third-degrees, so they will be checked confidentially, but under the second law, according to the Law amending the Data Protection Act, they will receive access to all data and to those most protected. Where there's logic, I really don't understand it. Note, the situation is such that a thousand people, as said by a minister, who today, government or minister, point out that Marko Markovic will be appointed to the post, he will not go through any public tender, will not have any conditions in the public tender that he must not be punished, that no criminal proceedings must be conducted against him, but because someone as important as a prime minister or minister is going to trust him with the whole state, will be able to have access to all the data, regardless of what he did, was being punished, led against him. He will be able to do so because he has won the confidence of the prime minister, and the prime minister will have no idea what he's done before but will wonder when the media might find out. And one more thing, now without a certificate of insight into the most protected documents of the state in the course of their affairs except for the current round, and until now only a parliamentary representative, the Minister, State Secretary of State of the Central State, so not all State Secretarys of State, not only the Secretary of State of State of State, Judge and Attorney General, will, after a new proposal for access to such information without a certificate, have, without any verification, as the minister has said by a thousand people who are today state officials, judges, chief state attorney, Deputy Attorney General of State, Director of the USKOK, deputy director of the USKOK. I don't doubt this, so I don't think that in the current law it's been well resolved in relation to the judges, or the state attorneys, and I'm asking the minister to explain to me what logic this is, because I think you should go along with the amendment that if you vote this law in this proposal, but if you determine that judges have access without a certificate of classified information then you should certainly put a summary book on it and tell the judges and state attorneys, because by this proposal, let's say some assistant minister or, let's say, the director of the State Administration has unlimited access to all classified documents, but let's say the County State Attorney or the General State Attorney will have no access to their work. And that's where I really don't see the logic. So, if you told the judge, and that means the judge for the offenses, then I don't see any reason to tell the state's attorneys. Because in the case of state attorneys, you only keep it at the level of the Attorney General and the Head of State and the Deputy Head of USKOK, and the judges don't. Here, therefore, I will not support this law because I think quite in some way important state affairs, important information that is important for the security of the state is opened without any criteria of one very, very broad circle of people who are not passing any checks or any public competition, or any checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12224	Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure. A colleague, Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12225	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Lovrin, you've well noticed that the suspension of state secretaries has increased the number of assistants and assistant assistants and deputy directors, and so the powers of insight into documents that are classified will also have the Deputy Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, directors of state administration organisations, spokeswoman of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, state officials becoming both their deputies and so on. They will all be able to have insight into what is apparently not and should not be in their hands. On the other hand, the accumulation of these officials in a thousand and more suggests that under a big bell and a drum, state secretaries who are the same practice in most European countries have been calling and bringing in assistants. They said it would reduce the cost of salaries, but by increasing the coefficient, the salaries went much higher so that the state administration system has so many of those officials with an increased salary that there is no more money for the salary provided for in the budget. Everything is about the fact that by hoarding officials, by increasing their costs, and then by giving them the opportunity to be able to dispose of security documents and classified documents, we come to all absurdities that this country will certainly not get out of this severe crisis, and by managing as director and certain administrative organisations are those who will be subsequently checked and will probably be under quotes "clean" because they have solved their problems, debts and judicial executions, which are why the Law of Conduct has been postponed as well as public executives have been put out of office in order not to come to the execution of these officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12226	Thanks, pal. Time. We have an answer to your line, Agent Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12227	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, well, you're right, colleague Djakic. I don't know who remembers the debate at the end of the 12th month when Minister Mrsic and I were going to say, "We're going to have a hard time with numbers." I claimed that the number of officials would increase, and then I calculated it up to 180, 170, I thought that was the end of the 80 state secretaries before that. Minister Mrsic assured me, asked to write it down, etc. Now we hear from the other minister that there are a thousand of them. But worse, look at the non-sensus – now these state officials who have no certificate of any kind, no verification, no public competition, the finger shows who's gonna be this state official because someone's a trusted person so I don't count whether he's a best friend or anything else, but this other, second level of government officials, so they're in a lower position, and in business, they're less likely to get into touch with the need to get insight into those classified information, so they have to go through a 1-degree check, they have to go to a public tender, check a public tender, etc. So the only criterion why these first 1,000 don't have to go is that they got the trust of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministers. And it would be terrible if after getting that trust that someone dares even go check something out with those people. That would be blasphemous compared to Mr. Prime Minister. Here, that's the problem. So when the Prime Minister or minister says no further questions are asked, and there is nothing more to talk about. So that's the main criterion. But he saw that it would be smarter for the prime minister if it weren't for that, because he shouldn't be blushing in front of the public and withdrawing his decisions later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12228	Thanks, pal. Time. Thank you. The following has been signed up for debate by Vice President Tomislav Culjak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12229	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In its explanation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as Minister Ostojić, as a reason for these amendments, these two Laws on Security Checks and the Data Securitisation Act, provides for one reason to simplify the conduct of a security check for persons appointed on duty. Or the need to make it easier for those persons to be appointed. It also states that there is no unnecessary burden on the security system, unnecessary checks. And I'm going to say that the question is whether these checks, in this way, are unnecessary. In particular, I would like to stress that new amendments to the Security Verification Act, which, instead of the basic checks so far and the level 1st stage, would be subject to a thorough third-degree verification. Which does not carry out a check on the material and financial situation and any possible abuses. It is already exclusively through the records of state authorities to determine whether a person is being punished or being subject to criminal proceedings against him. The security aspect is insufficient and lacking, as state officials are entrusted with large powers in the management of state property, as well as in terms of the use of national and international classified data which are relevant to the national security of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it may occur that a state office will be appointed or is already appointed a person who deals with various activities. Different activities that are a security risk and may be a security obstacle to issuing such a thorough check. And I ask what happens if later, a state official appointed to a certain high duty, if it is subsequently determined that this person is, here because of the different abuses in the earlier period, and it is known that this person was engaged in illicit activities. What's gonna happen and who's gonna take that risk. In this case, it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and of course not the security system which is disabled in this way to make one complete security check. The minister also said that the security system is being loaded, and I would say how familiar I am, it seems to me that some 5,000 security checks are being made annually. And even a 200, 300, 400 or 500 new checks wouldn't be a problem for the service. The security system is stable, the security system is capable of doing these checks, regardless of all officials, and I am convinced that then and in fact the government would be more credible. I hope that the objective of this amendment to the Security Verification Act is not primarily in order for government officials in the Kukuriku coalition not to check the material and financial situation and the way they acquired the property. In this way, they actually avoid the process of verifying and identifying the security facts that the Security Verification Act considers to be an obstacle and a security risk for appointing to state functions. And these are the enjoyment of opiates, gambling tendencies, alcoholism, the sharing of classified data to unauthorized persons, etc., contacts with foreign services. Of course, the fact that the Republic of Croatia has signed numerous contracts with the countries of the European Union and NATO should also be mentioned. And this Croatian Parliament has confirmed these contracts that oblige us to protect classified data. Here's one question that has already been asked here, the question is whether all the officials who have been appointed so far, whether for all the officials who have been appointed to certain duties, whether all of them are wanted, asked for a certificate and whether they all have a certificate, those who should have it. Do all ministers have certificates, whether all deputy ministers and ministerial assistants have certificates, those who have access to certain classified data without being able to do so in this way? Here I join all those who in the debate have expressed doubts about the justification to amend these two laws and of course I will not support the adoption of these two laws in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12230	Thank you, too. The following was reported by MP Tomislav Ivic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. And I, like my clubmates, will not support the amendments to these two laws. And it's from an argument like my colleagues did. I hold absolutely unacceptable the fact that the criteria for checking, this way through the amendments to the law, instead of serving, are much lighter. I think it would be of any interest, that if someone decided to deal with state affairs and be a state official. It must be ready to be the subject of a thorough security check, and it's not even a invasion of privacy, it's not even a police state. It is necessary to avoid what has happened very often. That responsible state and state duties should be appointed to people who deserve nothing, and especially what they have done in their previous lives. The fact is that, instead of the first-degree security check, the amendment of the law proposes a third-degree security check which is significantly milder, which does not refer to the verification of the material-financial status of the person for whom the verification is carried out, but is carried out exclusively by the national authorities and where it is determined whether the person is being punished or being subject to criminal proceedings against the same person. I don't think that's really enough, but as I said, someone who inspires to be a minister, State Secretary, or Deputy Minister, an assistant minister must be prepared for one thorough check where everything that's important for the conduct of his duties will be checked. I hope, as Vice-President Khuljak said, that this is not done because the officials of the Kukuriku coalition are not to be considered a barrier to their financial situation and the way the assets were acquired, that the process of verifying and identifying the safe facts of the Security Verification Act is not to be considered an obstacle and a security risk of being appointed to a state function. And therefore, I believe it is not good for the conditions of verification to be greatly tempered instead of being as I said they would be stricter and that we are particularly careful that the persons who will be appointed to government duties are truly honest and honest persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12232	Thank you, too. And next to the debate, MP Boro Grubisic reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, these two legislative proposals, the proposal for a law amending the law on the confidentiality of data and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security Verification Act, have, in fact, a link which consists of an extended circle of those users who can access classified data unlike earlier laws and earlier possibilities. In view of this, it appears again on the other hand that the level, therefore, has been reduced to some extent, by checking the security checks of certain officials from the first degree to so-called. Level three. There's something else interesting about this. Someone has already spoken, but I would like to point out that checking, security checks can be carried out at the request of the Prime Minister or any bodies, and for officials who have already been appointed. It's interesting to know exactly that. So, someone who has already been elected, so no security clearance has been carried out, and only later can it be carried out at the request of the Prime Minister for security clearance. When a person is already appointed how to explain or what to do if that security check is assessed by a negative assessment. So exactly what I'm saying here again is that things that have happened on a few occasions have already happened. So, like personally, the HDSSB club has already said, we're a little restrained on these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12234	Thank you. We also have a replica on your presentation of colleague Drazenko Pandek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12235	Thank you. So you asked a rhetorical question why it's important that the security check can be done afterwards. Well, I think that's very important. Someone can come in and not have any black spots on their file, let's just say that. But later in the course of the work, it turns out that unfortunately we had a close opportunity in history to see that his property was rapidly increasing, that it was obvious that he was involved in some dishonest activity and it is clear that there may be a need for a security check after the entry into service. Hence, during that period when a person performs his duties, it is obvious to respect the need to check his work from being on duty or from a later period to the point where he or she should check what he or she was doing. So it's mostly for me that these officials who are now appointed political 120 and something. Of course, but also those appointed as judicial officials and who are elected to a competition that is clearly announced in the National Journal. So there's no way we wouldn't be chosen competitions. There is a need for them, since they are appointed and for life, so there is a certainty if circumstances show about them that a security check is necessary if a judge hastensibly increases his assets, that there is a need for this security check to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12236	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12237	My friend, you may have chosen the wrong examples. I don't mind checking out a major asset check. So both you and I and we all write, filling out the forms when we enter here, let's say for the agent our property. Therefore, it is not a matter of security intelligence to check the property. So you have from DORH to the police and everyone else, so those who, Security Intelligence have to deal with much smarter and more important jobs like things like how we get into Serbian criminals here and who goes to embassies, etc. That's how I understand security intelligence. And the check of someone's property has bodies that are completely different and that can check someone's property without any problem, the condition of someone's property, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12238	Thank you. Final address, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12239	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. I'm going to answer a few things that were, of course, in the debate, and I'm going to start with these 1,000 people. Now I have to read it, and that's of course not about 1,000 state officials because it's an incorrect piece of information and you Parliamentarians know well that there's a law on state officials, it knows exactly who these people are and who they are in those places. So, all those who are based on it do this duty. But it is good to know that a basic security check is done for persons who are appointed or appointed to a duty, persons who are appointed or appointed to government officials means all state officials, persons who are admitted to work or work in the authorities of the security-intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia, persons who are admitted to work or work in specialised bodies for the control of organised crime and corruption, persons who are admitted to work or working bodies, services of particular importance, persons who are admitted to work on the work of the body and technical security of protected persons, responsible persons in legal persons, leaders, employees of diplomatic consular offices not to list further, that is all regulated by the law which states who are subject to a basic security check. So I didn't say nor did I say that there are thousands of state officials, I said that the system is overloaded because there are thousands of checks that must be made at the same time, and what is true is repeating the same and updating the same obligations that the Security Intelligence Agency is doing. After all, Mr. Culjak said about cca 200 to 300, so we could play with these numbers now, but I think the intensity is much more important, which is that the state officials don't remain without a security check if it's requested by the head of the body but without unnecessary checks in a way that you don't go either. So the issue of the certificate is very important that everyone has to sign the paper and that the issuing of the official secret remains a criminal act and obligations for each and every one of them both for the prime minister and for the president, as well as for the MPs and for anyone who is excluded from the security clearance. This is not resolved by a certificate, it is resolved by respecting the law and by not giving away official secrets or access to documents. That's what I have to point out and it's wrong to say that someone having a certificate that we've then solved the question of a potential secret service that's not true. This actually allows access to a certain number of classified data levels and the same rule as was set out in the United States may be better at our specific examples. So all of you MPs, if this is the case, will be sitting in a closed session to discuss documents that are not available to the public. The session would be closed, and that's exactly how no one's going out because you're all signing a statement that you're familiar with that you can't give away information about what was available to you. Also around parts of the legislation that were prescribed, specifically what Mr Grubisic spoke about officials, appointments and the procedure itself. Namely, by insisting whether the ministers were checked or not, I will immediately remind you that since 10th of 2008 we have had the establishment of the Croatian Parliament, 11th January was formed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I hope it is clear to everyone that none of the ministers, none of those who have taken office, have been checked that one day, and have not been put on the job for no reason, who is appointed or appointed for exactly why this procedure is going on. If that's not even the guarantee we see best in the situation mentioned by parliamentary representatives, which is that I'm a certificate and access to documents narrows the circle, that's correct. We also have a serious problem with the classification of documents, which is that there are a number of documents, and even those that are absolutely according to any NATO standards or EU standards should not be marked secretly. NATO is only 2 to 4% with the highest level of secrecy, with us and the procurement of shoes in the morh is marked with a very confidential so no one has access to it, and then we happen to have these issues in the Assembly specifically, which was related to the report on the work of the Security Intelligence Agency and other security-intelligence agencies. I will just remind myself that it is precisely in the Croatian Parliament's authority and that it is the responsibility of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to consider and adopt the reports of all the security intelligence agencies that they are doing through their annual reports, and you all adopt as parliamentary representatives the budget for their work. About the check, I have to say it's not true that she's not here. The same information that is available to the public, which means the question of court rulings, is not at all a question that you need SOA, it's public data. Data from the records on the size of the property, etc. Of course, this is precisely in point 22 that the third-degree security check refers to records and aggregated personal data business, other official documentation which legal entities are obliged to conduct in accordance with the law. Therefore, I won't mention more than the OIB, I guess that's enough to say that this is the information that, in any case, the passage without saying a polygraph, without the measures of secret data collection, without talking to the neighbours, without what I believe that as Parliament's representatives as much as you are willing to enter politics, you would probably ask yourself whether or not this is necessary and that we are going to restrict the human rights of each and all officials to the extent that it is necessary to protect access to documents or state secrets that are marked by the degree of classification. So there's no system failure. This system is functioning by the National Security Council Office. I must also say that under the existing law which has often been mentioned and are in the process of issuing an information security certificate, there are all details and it is incorrect that it withdraws certificates. This can be said differently, which is that the determination of the security verification procedure can be renewed. I would also point out that the issue of data leaks that are mentioned here along the way, I must say that with someone who possibly performs this duty means that it is certified and that such data is coming out of it I think it would be much better to stick to the fact that we have concrete examples that have happened and the question of passports and everything else precisely thanks to the actions and information of the system where the question after a long series of years we finally came to a serious group that has been doing serious crime with Croatian passports and with a way that has threatened truly rational security, which is that someone can come up with such documents. As I have announced, this thing is realized and is in front of the competent institutions for trial. I would also say that the question of credibility and the question of whether someone will do their job or not, first of all, lies on personal responsibility that accessing documents must be handled in a way that it is a document that is available to him in order to be able to do so in his work round here, does his job and obliges him to keep that same official secret. All the other things that have been mentioned about access, I must finally say that, of course, I have pointed out in the opening statement that there is no downsizing of standards towards the European Union or NATO for the simple reason that for such a certificate to be able to access such documents are very rare in the country that approach them. But in order for such a certificate to have to be passed just by checking the first degree, it means everything that is mentioned in this paper. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12240	Thank you, Minister. We have on your exhibit two corrections to an incorrect quote. First came from a colleague named Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12241	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Secretary said incorrectly that it's not true that security checks are missing because all these data are publicly available. It's true that security checks are missing because she's not mandatory. And I'm reading the law, it says that security checks are carried out through public sources, official records, making records, personal data collections, conversations, etc., and, if necessary, by obtaining, secret data acquisitions. It is true that these records are public and available, but there is no obligation on either the body or the person who appoints to carry out the examination of those public records, and there was an obligation for the competent authority to carry out those audits. And it's also not true that state data is protected by the fact that there's a criminal offence for giving up that information, because when there's a prosecution, then these data are already revealed and the damage to the state has been caused. It is therefore important to be able to reduce the ability to disclose important data.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12242	Thank you, colleague. The next correction to the incorrect quote, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A few things the minister said incorrectly. First, do we need a restriction on human rights? Here checks are done with this competence requirement for working with classified documents, not everything the minister said. On the other hand, if we have a certificate, then we can think that we've solved the issue of state secrets. The system of these certificates allows other institutions, competent institutions, to initiate the process of responsibility for data leaks that are analyzed by this law. And thirdly, if there is no collapse of NATO standards, there is only a statement by the minister that this standard will be maintained because this law allows to avoid checking the level of the third degree allowing someone to come to the certificate for the first level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12244	Thank you. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. Before, one notice, we proceed at 3:00, I'm confirming a recess. We continue at 15 hours with the Final Proposal for a Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of the structural instruments of the European Union, and afterwards with the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12245	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Amendment of the Law on the Secrecy of Information, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ. No. 115. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 166. I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 85 votes in favour, 6 against and 45 abstentions, have concluded that we will discuss the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would ask the proposing representative to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, esteemed Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Government's intention in proposing this amendment was to ensure an unlimited right of the Ombudsman to access the data, and means to ensure its full effectiveness in the work. With this amendment, we propose to include among officials who are already allowed the existing proposal of the Data Securitisation Act, which allows access to classified data without specific certificates, a public defender to be included. Such a proposal should also be considered, along with a recently adopted Law on the Ombudsman, which allows the Ombudsman to access other data. The adoption of this amendment would allow for this unlimited access to all, including data, which are classified and which, otherwise, would require a special certificate to be used by the Advocate General in order to enable them to be used. We therefore propose to adopt such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12247	I'm opening a debate in which only representatives of the club representatives can participate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the amendment to the government. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. I find that most of the votes, 93 for and 42 abstentions, have been accepted by the government's amendment, which thus becomes an integral part of the law. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. I find that most of the votes, 92 votes in favour, 38 against and 8 abstentions have been passed by the Data Securitisation Act, amending the Data Securitisation Act, in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12284	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. - Final draft law establishing an institutional framework for the use of the structural instruments of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 119. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on European Integration. You also received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Vrbat Tanja. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12285	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. I'm glad the motionary didn't explain it because I have a lot of reasons in my presentation. So this proposal for a law that is before us is about a very technical one law that may not need to be explained in more detail, but here's a very short one I'm going to try on about it. Of course, the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament supports this bill and it is one of those laws with which we are preparing for the full membership of our country in the European Union that is scheduled for the middle of next year. This draft law lays down the structural instruments of the European Union to be used by the Republic of Croatia after accession to the European Union, sets out the structural and strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia for the use of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund and establishes the principle bodies which will constitute a system of governance and control of the use of the Structural Funds and the European Union Cohesion Fund for the financial period 2007, 2013 and determine their functions and responsibilities. I note, this law applies only to this period. In the future, we'll have to bring in another regulation. This aims to give the legal force to the process and establish a strategic framework for the use of the Structural Funds and cohesion funds for that period, and to provide the institutional framework necessary for the effective preparation, implementation, supervision, financial management and control of projects to be financed by the European Union Structural and Cohesion Funds during that period. The SDP club supports I repeat this bill because it will introduce more order and clarify the use of funds itself. For the Republic of Croatia, an amount of EUR 449.4 million already authorised for commitments under the Structural Funds and Cohesion Funds in 2013, and it is precisely necessary to establish this institutional framework, i.e. to identify the necessary bodies and their functions and responsibilities in the Structural Instruments Management System. The need for this legal institutionalisation process and this framework has just come from our negotiations. It is provided for in Chapter 22, where one of the criteria for the temporary closure of the instruments was precisely this institutionalisation of the structure for the implementation of the cohesion policy of the European Union including the formal designation of institutional structures to specify all operational programmes defining priority areas of use from structural funds, including management bodies, certification bodies and audit bodies as well as, where appropriate, intermediate bodies in the process. So this proposed legal strategic framework is technically a matter of regulation of procedure and jurisdiction, and we at the SDP's representative club consider it to be as it is proposed to be adequate and adapted to our needs and to the new establishment of state administration. It refers only to this as I have already said a certain financial perspective and later some new regulation will be needed. Until now, this framework has only been provided for by decisions and strategic documents, but it is now necessary to adopt an act of law on the procedure itself. That decision I mentioned was from 2010. It has become obsolete and in certain parts of it it has become inconclusive and that is one of the reasons why, in addition to the obligation we have to pass this legal act. The law and, on the other hand, as proposed, is sufficiently flexible and flexible because it gives within the system, it foresees a system at a general level and defines only basic functions, and then it is possible, by each operational programme, as appropriate and in the implementation, to determine by other acts which bodies of the state administration will implement which segment of the work. This law should also be adopted in an emergency procedure in order to allow it to enter the system properly and obtain the desired results by the end of the period of expected duration of the system, i.e. until 31 December 2016, where all that should be financed in 2013 should be completed in practice, otherwise the funds should be returned to the European Union budget which they would certainly not want. As our EU accession is foreseen on 1 July of next year at the SDP Club, we believe that the urgent adoption of the law is necessary to ensure a legal basis for the establishment of an institutional framework for which the Republic of Croatia must also receive a positive assessment of the compliance of these bodies from the management and control system before the application of the structural instruments. A positive assessment of system coherence will demonstrate the ability to use these structural instruments in accordance with the rules and without questioning the financial interests of both the EU and the Republic of Croatia. By the beginning of 2013, therefore, before a conformity assessment is requested, which requires all the intended bodies in the system to carry out a large number of preparatory and organisational actions, to strengthen the capacity to implement and to provide, at an interinstitutional level, a series of detailed rules and instructions for action, and on which basis the European Commission will assess the compliance of our system. On obtaining such a positive assessment depends on the payment of the 449.4m euros I already mentioned, but later the funds that will be allocated to Croatia will be much, much more significant, and here I want to look back on what comes after this period. We must now start preparing very seriously for a large number of projects, hopefully a large number of projects that should be financed in the next period, the financial period from 2014 to 2020. It is therefore necessary to provide time-consuming funds for pre-financing of project documents in order to absorb as much money as possible from structural and cohesion funds in the future very soon. Very significant funds have been provided and the first next allocation in the later period after this financial period in which we are will be even 3 times larger than the entire IPA programme. We want to stress the need to preserve existing and create new personnel. We think it's one of the bigger problems that we're going to face, and it's not directly related to this very technical law, but it's bound as a problem to it. We have to have people working and designing projects. They will have the opportunity to leave the country by entering the EU. These are the best frames that will make sense of things going after better positions and higher wages, and we appeal for a way to figure out how to make these best frames that have taken this whole system out, because the system is people, those people who work in our administration who have collected a number of experiences and knowledge through this year, they are very valuable to us and we need them in any way possible within the frameworks of the possible adequate and pay and try to keep them in the system. Some of these programs that are involved in this law will even be able to pay for these personnel from these funds but that will not be possible for all. I believe the government will consider all possible measures to keep these people in the system. This government has taken seriously the need to regulate the absorption of funds from funds, especially since in some previous periods it has not always been able to fully or optimally absorb the funds available to us for lack of serious and well-prepared projects. It failed to absorb all the funds we could during a certain period of time to withdraw. This bill that is now before us is part of this seriousness, it shows this serious approach as the appointment of a special ministry which is particularly valued within the European institutions and the appointment of a special vice-president of the Government for funds, which has also put emphasis on seriousness and commitment to this topic. The foundation of future work is part of this seriousness and this law is the foundation of the future work of the state administration on the absorption of funds, so we at the SDP club, I will repeat it once again, and for these reasons we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12286	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ club, representative Martina Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12287	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, so as previously pointed out, Vrbat's right to the use of funds from European funds is certainly one of the tangible consequences of membership. And as already said in the first 6 months of membership, it is 450m euros reserved for Croatia in the European budget, and of these 450m euros 30% or some 150m euros will be paid as an advance right after the European Commission approves a description of the system and that a positive audit report on the organisation of institutional structures and their functionality. Therefore, what should regulate this law, thus defining institutions, their interrelationships and relationships, ensures their effectiveness in fund management is crucial not only for the successful use of funds in general but also for the withdrawal of these 150m euros during the period 2013 itself. This 150 million advance is important during 2013 because it is an essential element of the calculation that Croatia provides the net recipient position in the first 6 months of membership. Therefore, the establishment of institutional structures is certainly an important task that must be fully completed, so everything must be defined, defined, written, established interrelationships that work and work 6 months before membership. In order to use the other 6 months to discuss the quality of the system with the Commission and to result in a positive assessment right after membership. So the time horizon that we're talking about doing all this big work is for the next six months. So it's a very important task, so it's about a time that's relatively limited, but of course the functioning and construction of this system doesn't start from scratch. It should include and rely on all that experience and everything that has already been done in the organisation of institutions, people, staff, knowledge, rules, knowledge and experience that has been gained in the management of pre-accession funds. And these experiences Croatia has gained are not small. Because in matters of pre-accession management, Croatia has been exposed to requests and expectations from the Commission which have not been exposed to any accession state before. There are always explanations and explanations as to why Croatia faces much more complicated rules and requirements during the pre-accession period than it was in the case of the fifth round of enlargement. The answers and explanations were, experience is being gained to manage the Structural and Cohesion Funds, which will be of great benefit to you in the success of managing the Structural Funds. However, this law, which lies before us, its contents, terminology, legal terminology and provisions and the way in which this law prescribes these provisions, gives the impression that we are now meeting for the first time with terms related to European funds. As I will explain in more detail in my debate, the content of the law does not quite correspond to its name, largely the many laws already in line with the European Union are ignored, and the law and terms that do not exist in our general legal system and budget system are used. So, unfortunately, I have to say that it seems to me from the content of this law in some way reflect, that it is a translation of something done by foreign consultants, which is not well enough, not checked, nor adapted to our reality. For example. Article 1 states that the law regulates the institutional framework, but there is not a single word in the Law on the institutional framework. There are no words about what institutions are, which are ministries, which are the authorities of the state administration and what their role is in the management of structural instruments. The theoretical concepts, the coordinating body, the audit body, the certification body, the managing body are defined. Well, we'll be a member in a year. These theoretical concepts are European and bureaucratic coins. It's in the Member State to give them content. In our reality of the existing system, all these euro bureaucratic concepts have content. And to establish an institutional structure means to define the tasks, rights and responsibilities of existing bodies of state administration and ministries, in our legal system, not to prescribe from European rules the descriptions of European bureaucratic coins. The ministries are, for what reason, the ministries are in our system equal. However, the fund management system requires that some ministries be more equal. This is why, not to bring discord or disorder into the legal system of a Member State, but because European funds require responsibilities. They require responsibilities on specific ministries and should also be given rights for them to carry out these responsibilities. However, there is no such thing in this law, and that is what the assumption is and the necessary starting point for this system to function effectively. In the pre-accession fund system, it's a little more equal than all the other ministries, the Ministry of Finance, but it carries the greatest responsibility in it. What this law on a European fund system should have given, it should have said which ministry would now be a little more equal, thereby bearing full responsibility, but also the right to organise and regulate the system, so that it could function effectively. It's not here. The law states that these coordination bodies and audit bodies are national authorities. Well, the term national body doesn't exist in our general nor in our budget regulations. And what does that mean, in our Croatian law, that something is a national body? The Parliament does not decide either on the Hungarians or on the German authorities. This is exactly a sign that this is an unverified translation of the consultant's proposal. Accordingly, the law does not make it clear which ministries should participate in this, which other bodies to the state administration, which of them are at the level of the budgetary user, which are part of the public sector, which are outside the budget? He's got it all. The law does not even take into account the budgetary classification set out in the budget law. All of these regulations are in line with international recommendations, standards and practices. There is no point in copying the definitions of European regulations and acting as if nothing has existed in our system so far. The next question that I think the law has completely missed is the question of programming. The law says that the coordinating body is the national body responsible for programming. Programming or in Croatian is a key task of the Member State in the EU fund world. Not a sector in a ministry that coordinates the activity between our country and the European Union, but rather a task of the state as such with all its institutions and the system of strategic planning. And why is that? Because it is a large amount of money and is no longer allowed, given the size of this money, and cannot continue the parallelisation between our budget projects and the projects financed from the European Union. These two processes need to be stepped down, because of this merger was a successful Ireland, which is why the mergers today are a success in Poland. Because the funds we will receive from the European funds will be Croatia's only and main investment and development potential in the next period. After these 449 will come 2.3 times the amount in 2014, 3.1 times the amount in 2015. All this requires co-financing and precisely to make a successful use of it all together. It is impossible to parallelise the planning of European projects and the planning of the national budget. These two functions must be stepped down, and this law does not do so, is it explicitly saying that the coordinating body is coordinating the preparation and modification of the criteria for selecting projects in collaboration with the managing body. It defines it as a narrow function, not as a general state, a general process of identifying strategic priorities from which concrete funds are then implemented, which then implements concrete projects. Therefore, nothing in this law says about the integration of resolution ministries, the role of the Ministry of Finance is not even mentioned. The law simply adds a management system to the European funds to the current budgetary process and ignores, to a good extent, all the efforts that have been made so far to bring together our budgetary process and demands for the management of European funds. The law fails to define important, but therefore lists individual functions, individual bodies to the level of the smallest detail. It determines who will enter the data into the MIS or manage the information system and exchange them with the Commission via SCF2007. So what does such a provision do in law? It determines who keeps the documentation and records. However, when the law so detailedly prescribes a list and a job description, then instead of a fast and flexible system, you get something which is tromical and difficult to adapt, and I am not sure that it was the aim of the legislator. The proposal then says that the coordinating body adopts rules on the conduct of the body in a system related to establishment, promotion, strategic planning and the like. Not a coordinating body can lay down regulations when we all know the rules are passed either by a minister or by a government. So did anyone read this bill? It also says the law that the coordinating body will adopt a regulation relating to the establishment and improvement of the system. Well, I guess that should be the subject of the law because the law is called the Law establishing an institutional framework. So how is this law going to lay down a rule that defines it the same? I could bring down a number of examples that show that the writers of this law seem to be a little confused by pears and apples that neither the foundations of the functioning of the public administration nor the Croatian legal system, which means they were foreign consultants who helped. The consultants can help, but we also all know that the quality of their work is questionable and that we need to check it out in detail. Looks like those checks weren't here. It's additionally worrying that there's a termology in the law that doesn't exist in us. Article 8(3) states: "the institution in which the convincing authority is in" which should be the Ministry of Finance, "transports to users of public contributions in accordance with the request for payment". There is no public contribution, there is budgetary resources and co-financing. The public contribution as an expression does not exist in our budgetary and financial framework. It is then said that "the managing body ensures the maintenance of accounting codes". Budgetary users must ensure that budget classifications are not managed, this is governed by the Budget Law. It doesn't exist. This cannot be included in the existing financial framework by managing finance in the Republic of Croatia. He says "the body of persuasion confirms expenditure", expenditure under our law means expenditure on financial assets and payments, and the body of persuasion confirms expenditure. There are therefore many of these inappropriate expressions. And I must therefore ask if this law was in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance because, under the law, the Ministry of Finance cannot give consent to a law that contains such expressions. One of the illogicalities of this law is that there is something contrary to the outcome of the negotiations on Chapter 33-financial supervision and control because this law states that institutions in which the functions of the certification bodies will report irregularities. One of the biggest problems in Chapter 33 is that the commission did not accept the institution reporting irregularities or the Ministry of Finance or the DORH or the MUP. She wanted there to be a special department. And that's why so-called. AFKOS was established as a stand-alone service for the control of fraud and irregularities. She's a contact point and she's in the finance ministry and she's the only one who can report irregularities. It was founded just to do it here right now. So it can't say in law that it's done by an institution when it failed to agree on the negotiation process. It also writes in the law that the institution in which the functions of assurance are performed should ensure that the Ministry of Finance adapts national legislation for the purpose of connecting and planning and using public funds with the planning and use of funds. We've harmonised the legislation. This is precisely why the budget law has been amended, harmonised and changed in the accession process. Can't change the whole budget framework as this law requires in 6 months Is the Ministry of Finance aware that this law will change the overall budgetary framework [[Intruder: colleagues Dalic, time.]] The time has passed and therefore the last sentence. [[Intruder: colleagues Dalic, time.]] I would kindly ask the government, Mr. Vice President, for everything I've said, I've said for the best purpose of whoever's been working in that system and leading him for a long time. I'm not sure the government wants to develop a system on these vague legal provisions. And that's why we objected to an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12288	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12289	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Attendance ministers, respected associates, colleagues and colleagues. In such an early afternoon for such important matter as this legal proposal, however, is in an unnecessary emergency procedure. There's a few of us, and there's a sequel. So, I have read this bill five times or so, and I still haven't quite figured out what this is about, or it's about a poorly-written domestic task, as counterpart Dalic of foreign consultants said, where the text mentions that both frameworks and institutions and concepts that have not been in our legislation, starting with the law and what comes from the Ministry of Finance and other ministries, and I am really trying and hoping that I'm not too small to understand, but I still can't understand well enough. But I realized very well when I was in the French-Croatian Interparliamentary Delegation, so there was a delegation where there was a member of the SDP, unfortunately, is not here at the moment and it's about Luka Denoni. And we were in Marseilles, so the Provence is the province and the Azurna coast, the Alps one province that has 4.5 million inhabitants and which is pulling the most funds from structural and cohesion funds across Europe, just that part of France's southern, southeast. We visited an agency dealing with project writing, ideas that could withdraw funds from EU structural funds. Believe me, and I'm sorry there's no Mr. Luke here to confirm that there are seven people working in that agency. Hundreds of millions or billions of euros, they withdraw funds. Seven people, none of whom are over 35 years old. That's all I know. So people have ideas, young, smart, educated, educated, have an idea, vision, strategy and write projects, clearly in collaboration with the project managers, so let's say public companies, with project managers who are employed in local and regional self-government units. How many of us have a manager project to write projects for which we can withdraw funds from the Structural and Cohesion Funds of the European Union. Do we know that information? We don't know. They're gone. We're building here now with this bill of law. Institutional framework, we'll be late. We are creating an institutional framework as it says here for the use of structural instruments and clearly needed bodies. Well then there are the required bodies that are the coordinating national body, MIS so-called, and then the audit body, then the certification body, then the steering body, then the intermediate body level 1 and level 2. Now, somebody explain to me what level 1 and level 2 intermediate body is. Maybe, I don't know, I believe me, maybe someone around here will rip me apart or I don't know who. But all in all, I'm afraid that 450, let's round up 450m euros planned for Croatia in the second half of 2013, if everyone is ratified, if I say they all ratify the accession contract with Croatia, all the countries, all 27, at the same time Croatia will make a clear commitment to pay over 600m euros in the case of the same European Union. The difference is 150 million. 150m euros says we can withdraw immediately, they are intended right away for some sort of say, perhaps not simply to say, to help Croatia to cope immediately at the beginning with EU accession. What we have not done in pre-accession funds and pre-accession funds, which is that we have not withdrawn or, as my colleague Tanja Vrbat says, absorbed everything that was possible to absorb from these pre-accession funds. And how then we will absorb the money that is available and envisaged for the use of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund when precisely this segment that nobody is still concerned about is said to have this institutional framework six months before Croatia enters the EU. But I'm talking about specific people, young, educated. They do not have to go anywhere to the European Union, although there are competitions here and now in the 6th month for 150 of our young people who can go to the European Union to work, but they have jobs here and here and can be well paid and rewarded if they will be installed, if they will be installed and put in place a project manager, in HEP, in Croatian water, in Croatian roads, in Croatian highways, everywhere. Because here it writes nicely that the following operational programmes are being implemented in the Republic of Croatia, these are: Operational Programme of Transport, Operational Programme of the Environment, and regional competitiveness, development of human potential, and then Operational Programmes for cross-border cooperation. How many counties do we have that aren't borderline? Very little. I don't know what they have at all, counties that aren't borderline, starting from Bosnia and Herzegovina and down to Dubrovnik-Neretvanska which with Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina are here with Vojvodina of Slavonic our county, up Hungary, almost everything is in contact. Therefore, everyone has a chance from these cross-border cooperation programmes to withdraw the funds provided here. I don't know it's Požesko-slavonska, Lucic is rebelling. And how we're going to withdraw such funds, so we need to have people, young people who know how to write these programs, who know how to write them, who know the language well, who know the great Internet, who are excellent education, and who have an idea. The regional development agency Slavonia and Baranja in Osijek has long been doing this and has a manager set up everything. The ship's city development agency has 3-4 employees. Too little. In every city firm, there must be a project manager in every county company that will work together with the county, and then write projects to the state and be paid well, well paid and doesn't have to go to the European Union to earn money because we have to withdraw money in Croatia. Now I have to admit that it's foggy and vague to me, Minister, don't mind me, this bill of law, I'm baptizing it, I'm saying it's a little hazy and vague, it doesn't say anything about it, it's talking about some institutional framework and the necessary bodies to implement this institutional framework on how to manage that fund. But what's concrete, which we're going to have to do very quickly, to establish exactly like this, that nothing like mushrooms after the rain projects managers, in order to pull 450 million euros, it doesn't say anything, nobody cares about it, nobody does, it doesn't say, it doesn't matter, it's not about that. So what we need to adopt because it is so agreed with the EU, institutional frameworks and other necessary bodies, etc., it must exist. But I'm afraid that's what the main task is, which is to withdraw funds from access and structural and cohesion funds, I'm afraid it's going to be, that we're going to stay at the same level or percentage as pre-accession funds, and that would be sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12290	Thank you, too. We have one correction on your exhibit, colleague Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12291	Here I agree with my colleague Grubisic, but here I come from a small town, the town of Pleternica, and I am partly correcting it, and part of it is a replica. Well, I'm making it right, so cities and municipalities didn't withdraw enough funds. [[Intruder Batinić: You can't replica, just correct please.]] I'm correcting it, and I'm telling him that the town of Pleternica, which is a territorially small town, has withdrawn a lot of funds right out of pre-accession funds. In the last year alone, he received four projects, so that's a lot of funding. We don't even have a chance to give it to us right now. This is something that you would say in the second debate that we also get the European Union's funds we cannot participate because we cannot participate with that 25%. So we used the maximum of the maximum we could.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12292	Thanks, buddy. Next on behalf of the SDSS club Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. First call from colleague Davor Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after the conclusion of the negotiations and the signing of the Accession Agreement with the European Union, one of the priorities ahead is indeed the development of an effective institutional framework for the use of EU funds. And it has been said several times in this House, and we have mentioned this more than anyone during the debate ahead of the EU referendum, that it is up to us to benefit from joining the Union. For the first 6 months of our membership for Croatia, about 450 million are foreseen from the Structural and Cohesion Funds. There's still those direct payments for agriculture. Of course, if we close the ratification process in time, and I believe and I hope we will, but we discussed it the other day in this assembly and warned that this process is being threatened when the government is going with bad bill proposals like that attempt by the Police Act, the prevention of conflicts of interest or the debate we had and tomorrow it will be at the vote of the Croatian Law. But other than the government must avoid some new gaffs and mistakes, it is indeed necessary to pass the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of EU structural instruments. And here I agree with the proposal that the 2010 framework needs to be tempered, i.e. adapt to new circumstances including the fact that today we have another government law with new ministries and relations between them in terms of functions and responsibilities. But that is exactly what I see in this proposal, which avoids determining which ministries or other bodies of the state administration that will manage these EU funds, this process. So today we have a proposal that can be considered a kind of elaborate on how to build a system. But the bill itself does not define this system, it does not discuss the decision-making processes with the precise holders of these transactions. In fact, there is no institutional framework being established by agreeing here in principle that we need to have one coordinating body at national level. The real question is what will be that body, which ministry or state agency. Under this proposal, the Croatian Parliament will not decide on this, but will be prescribed by the government within 30 days. Therefore, the issue remains an open question of what this system will really look like. For example, consider the case of Poland, which is the most successful member of the EU in withdrawing funds from EU funds. By 2005, they had a theoretically well-developed system, but in practice it did not work very well. And then they repaired it in 2006 with system reform, simplified decision-making procedures and a strengthened role of the Ministry of Regional Development with strong political support from the Prime Minister. In Slovenia, however, the State Office was organised at the Prime Minister's office and led by a person who enjoyed the confidence of both the prime minister and the head of the opposition, so that when the change occurred, the projects continued successfully. So the question we have to ask ourselves today is whether we in Croatia have this maturity to build a good and effective institutional framework that will serve the interests of the Croatian state or whether we will be hostages to the conflict within the ruling coalition on who will control most of the cookies representing the European Union funds. And this bill of law doesn't give us an answer to that question. What's coming out of the coalition to the public unfortunately doesn't give us any reason to trust the government. Because how this government is going to develop an effective institutional framework when it rests clearly on principle here is, for example, the first Deputy Prime Minister to call one assistant minister and tell him fuck you institutions and rules, change the rules and hire my man on a party key. At the same time, here is the foreign minister organizing a summit in Dubrovnik with the intensities that we are also transferring our expertise to our neighbours in Southeast Europe, as well as to the countries of the Southern Mediterranean in the construction of institutions. And right now I want to say it's a really good move for our foreign policy. But how credible we will be about the institutional frameworks when we have a prime minister and our first vice president standing outside every frame of responsible behavior in Banski Dvor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12294	Thanks, buddy. Next up for the debate of Bozidar Kalmeta, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12295	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the clue to what my colleague Stier was saying, so it's unquestionable that this bill is very important and necessary and that it should be passed as soon as possible because it's a law in the old for future structures, for membership. So far, we have not had a law, we have had one decision on the appointment of structures for pre-accession funds and the fact is that structures must be prepared for a run for a year to be ready to welcome here in a year and full membership in the European Union, when we will also withdraw the first tranche of funds intended for Croatia. However, according to those who spoke about that regardless of the law's proposal should have gone into two readings because the argument we heard that rule N plus 3 was threatened simply does not stand because we will withdraw the first course of the year independently of it. So it could have been in two readings again not too long and this law was passed because I say it is very important and important for those reasons that I used to say. This law, as it is said, not to repeat, sets out indeed one strategic institutional framework for the use of structural and cohesion funds, and we all want a really effective institutional framework because, as counterpart Dalic said, this is an investment potential which will be the most important for Croatia in one future period and we really need to be fully prepared. However, several objections to this law. First what's already been said, but here I repeat, for this... the level 1 and level 2 bodies which achieves confirm the trueness of the costs shall therefore be stated broadly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is stated that it is a national or public body, and given the great importance of these bodies and given what is written in the law that all these bodies are going to do, I think it is important to know who these bodies are and what are the institutions to which the authority of the certification will be brought down. I think that should be precisely defined in this law because if it's not defined precisely then there's only one space left for calculations, not to say speculation, to which we'll only get the answer when the government regulations make that clear. There's a danger that these verification powers, I don't think that's going to happen, but here's because it doesn't say clearly and precisely, that these application powers are being passed on to the body I don't know that they don't have enough expertise, it would be a disaster. I think it has to be state bodies and I hope it's gonna be state bodies. Furthermore, the law does not define the responsibilities of individual bodies because it is only a list of tasks that each body will carry out, and I think that should have been more clearly defined in order to know exactly what individual bodies, or what responsibility individual bodies will have, and the list of jobs we know. And no relationship between individual bodies of the system has been defined at all, so the question is what they will be and what they will possibly be regulated into. So, ultimately, without questioning at all the need to pass this law, and the urgency of passing this law, but it could still have been said in two readings, it is a pity that this proposal reminds me no more of what it would call, perhaps a manual, and not a very important law that depends, in this investment part as well as the wider future of Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12296	Thank you very much. Representative Ana Lovrin wants to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12297	Thank you very much. Although you said well, and it is true that it is necessary to pass such a law in order to establish an institutional framework for the use of EU funds and you mentioned that there is one government decision from 2010 that also forms an institutional framework. But I would say that this decision has more forms of law and it's more precise than this law that's right here in front of us that we're talking about. Therefore, the 2010 Decision sets out exactly what state body will be the bearer of which businesses and I would agree that these institutions and the whole institutional framework may not be sufficiently detailed, but then it would be good if the applicant had taken that decision and had further specified it and complemented it. It would be better than this text of the law. Namely, he does not respond, text, or what is said in the first article. And that's that this law sets up an institutional framework. It doesn't fit because you don't say which institutions are. Only to say that the coordinating body is a national body or to say that the managing body is a national governing body, and that nothing is said about what a specific body is, which is its composition if there is no one to be named, is not said. He didn't say anything. He says he is talking about the body's responsibility, but in this entire text of the law, there is not a single word of responsibility, there is a number of jobs to the smallest details about who inputs some information into the computer or in which application enters it. I mean, this is really nomotechnically out of the ordinary, I don't know the inappropriate legal text the same as these keys used and
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12298	May I ask you to bring an end, because the time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12299	Here, I'll finish. And besides, we may not have noticed it yet, but this all applies to only four operational programmes and laws, and everything else is not in this law, but it will deal with partner countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12300	I now call on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Mr Branko Grcic, to give the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12301	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and I thank you, I welcome you, of course, and I thank you for this constructive debate. This is a good opportunity for me to refer to these remarks in this closing statement. In fact, the matter is very clear. I think Mr. Stier was the closest grade in that naturally first part of his speech, the second part I'm not going to comment on. So in the first part of his speech he was very precise and defined what was happening about this law, what were our obligations, what we had achieved with this law and what was yet to be done. I must inform you that in preparation, we had a final regulation, so more than this decision that you made a year and a half or two ago, so the regulation that you've been saying today has been very precise and neatly defined. Therefore, not only the body's obligations in implementation but also who is within the structure of this country who performs such functions. And then the Legislative Office made an observation that this regulation must be based on some generic law which is why we divided that regulation into practically two texts in order to satisfy the formal conditions that have been asked of us. And in this way for a month we delayed making a very important decision on the establishment of institutions that will deal with management and implementation and absorption of structural funds. But here's what we want to follow the law, we want to follow some rules that have been established and we didn't want to break over our knees. Therefore, I would also like to say that all these remarks you've made and stand and do not stand. Because I'm saying, if you saw that second part that follows behind this, and that's a regulation that will regulate these issues, it's actually going to be all clear. It will be known who is the managing body, who is the coordinating body, who is the implementing body, at level 1, at level 2. And maybe that's not so bad, maybe it's not so bad for the future because that's how we're going to establish a more flexible system. That, in any case, any institutional change in the structure of the government's functioning, we won't have to change the Law on institutional structures for the use of structural funds again. And, well, at least we'll save some time for the future. However, I also want to look back at these essential things, I attach this more to formalities, but what Mr. MP was saying was key to me, which is how to take money from EU funds. And I have to tell you again, when this government came into effect at the beginning of this year, we found a report that said that at the end of 2011, the total absorption of IPA funds in all components was 37% of allocation agreed. If last year was one of the very bad ones, in terms of the commission, it recalls funds that amounted to neither less than 40m euros, 40m euros. So, indeed, one very difficult situation that we have found by establishing this ministry itself, or rather by taking over the coordination and addition function on behalf of the EU funds, we have actually chosen to give one additional institutional power to the whole process. The second part of the operation was the establishment of co-ordination at government level, so at the level of ministers per week, I stress the weekly monitoring of all developments in the EU fund absorption system. So that works now, I'd say it works very well. In addition to these coordinations, we have at least 2 meetings a week with operational structures that we are reviewing in 2 segments, 2 segments. One segment is administrative capacity and the number of people in the system who are ready and able to prepare projects, implement procedures and work on the absorption of funds. And the other key aspect that is every time on the agenda is the degree of project preparation. And here we must say very honestly, Croatia's biggest problem, not six months ago, but today is the stage of project preparation. I will remind you, and that is what the gentlemen who participated and in the negotiations with the European Union know, and today we have criteria in monitoring with the European Union in chapter 23 of the regional policy, which is precisely these two aspects, strengthening administrative capacity for absorption and preparing project playplay, so one supply of projects that would, on the principle of some overbooking, therefore, prepare at least 50% more projects than should be made available in relation to the money that is available at some point. In this way to ensure that tomorrow when this offensive starts, this explosion, I would say in the transition from IPA funds to structural funds, to be absolutely prepared for it. And that's what we're working on, in two months we've had three meetings with Mr. Hanna, the regional policy commissioner who gives us extremely great support, and I have to say it here publicly, extremely big support and encouragement. A month and a half ago, visiting Croatia, he also gave us the task of preparing a list of all projects in all operational structures that are indicated as potential projects in the absorption of EU funds. In this month and a half, and we did it, and now that we've been in Osijek and Vukovar, we've delivered Mr. Hanna, he was extremely pleased with that. Unfortunately, all your projects aren't prepared. Some are prepared, some are at 70%, some are at 50%, etc. and some are completely unprepared, but a list of the projects we are working on is indicated and will work on all operational structures in this country. That's what we're doing, next week he's going to the government of the Employment Proposal, I think, with a number and a letter of 185 new people in the system, in all operational structures. The emphasis is on the redistribution of people in the system, given the hard budgetary constraints. According to EU structures, not just hiring new ones, but I also have to tell you that there will be employment and new, young, highly educated people, people who are ready to work 12 hours a day, that's the kind of job that languages, who are willing to learn, perfect themselves, that's what we need. We will use, of course, those 185 and the opportunities provided by the new law on the employment of young highly educated people in that kind of traineeship, yearly to test these people and one part of them in the second phase, when we are able to expand the structure for the absorption of structural funds. So now we're still talking about IPA. Because you see this obligation to fill the quota of employees in structures late from the old government, so late and we had to do it urgently, so it's about people who will complete the IPA structure. For structural funds, we're going to need more people. So we're working very actively, and as proof of that, I can tell you that these days, these days, are probably going to mean next week or the one behind, and we're going to officially publish the results of these last six months. And I can now inform you that the result is not at all bad, better said, of those 37% we have made good progress, but since there are no components to the precise results, I would not want to run, but serious progress has been made. What? Well, I didn't challenge it. So, we inherited something, we accelerated something, we encouraged something, but what is important is a strong continuity, a strong coordination, and I also, here's what I may not have said publicly, but I'm probably going to start our full membership in the EU, and perhaps early in 2013 to ask that this kind of weekly review of the situation in that segment be moved as a special point, a continuous point at government meetings. This is the practice of Poland, it is the practice of some other countries that clearly know what structural funds mean for the country's development. The truth seems to me to be Mr Stier and that he said it or someone else now apologize, the next is the truth, the EU's latest report on the use of structural funds says the EU on average compared to the same period of the financial perspective in 200-2006 is 15% weaker in the absorption of EU funds, obviously the crisis has affected the whole of the EU with some 48% at the same time in this perspective as in this. It's only 33% now. So there are some things that have stopped, some countries are doing it better, some worse, but we want to be above the EU average. That's our key objective. Whether we're going to reach Poland's self at this point would really be too brave to speak, but our imperative is to strengthen the system and really prepare for those money that will be very, very significant at the moment when we become a full member. Here, of course, I expect your support. What I'm saying all the time when I'm walking around Croatia at both local and county level, please start your own capacities, there are great examples in Croatia at local level. Work, prepare projects. I was also in Zadar the other day, I was also in Osijek, in Varazdin, in Čakovec there are all young people by the agencies who already have a rich experience and in which we put high hopes. But what's also important seems to me that you mentioned private consulting facilities. So there is now a single specific market, a special niche for the development of a new market for consulting services, which will help private entities, associations, businesses, family economies and others to prepare the project. That's what we're missing right now, and that's why we're on a network action plan to boost information and education, and that's what's mentioned here today. So Croatian people need to know what EU funds are, what opportunities there are and in this sense understand the whole process. And perhaps another very important data that also confirms one thesis that has been presented here today, currently in the EU, EU funds substitute from 25% to even 68% in some countries, according to data from this latest perspective to 68% of all public investment. You can imagine what the meaning of structural funds is then. And if we know that and if we're aware of that, and this government is aware, we'll do everything we can to make sure that domestic money that is not available and that is extremely expensive and that we have to be in debt for public investment to substitute it with free and free money from structural funds. That's our strategy, that's our goal and to come to at least 60 percent of the substitution of all public investments. Before this crisis, they were 15 to 20 billion kunas a year. These 8.5 billion potential allocations of structural funds are here annually at 50 to 60% of total public investments. Therefore, we are fully aware of the meaning of this money. We'll do everything, but I'm saying, here's really one big effort at all levels in terms of special project preparation. And projects especially those that are more expensive and which require 2.5 to 3 years of preparation, for example, in water, in railways, etc. they had to prepare themselves today or long before to draw these funds from the first money in the second half of 2013. I'm sorry for being a little longer but I think this is important and that this is the way we need to spread this story in an informative sense throughout Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12302	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. We'll hear just one more correction to the incorrect assumption. Honorable representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12303	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President mentioned a decommitment and said the decommitment was due to inadequate, inadequate and poor management of funds. And Mr Vice-President also knows that the largest part of this decommitment is the result of the savings incurred in 2008 due to lower prices achieved in public tenders and which, by the rules already applied, could not be deployed for other purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12304	Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the law is over, and we will vote when the conditions are met. We move to the Final Proposal of the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of the structural instruments of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 119. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? We're asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 87 for and 26 against the adoption of the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of the structural instruments of the European Union in the Republic of Croatia is in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12307	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12308	There won't be any need. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No one. I'm opening a debate that no one has signed up for, so there's no need for you to give a final explanation. That's also the conclusion of the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia, under the IPA programme, the Transition Assistance Component and the Strengthening of Institutions for 2011, part three, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 120. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? I find that, unanimously with 115 votes, this law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12311	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Before you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. We think it's a very important document for a whole series of reasons. The fundamental subjects of scientific policy in the Republic of Croatia are the development of a scientific sector that will support economic, social, human progress and will also be the backbone of a sustainable, inclusive and intelligent knowledge-based society. In fact, Europe 2020 and Horizon 2020, as two key strategic documents, want to create and develop Europe as a competitive society where development is based on sustainable, inclusive and smart growth. We want to be part of such a Europe and such a strategy. Although the scientific and research potential in the Republic of Croatia is important, for example, According to EUROSTAT, 12108 researchers are active in Croatia, which is 0.63% of researchers in the working population. If we compare this to the average of new members of the European Union, which is 0.88% of researchers, its use and compliance with the development and needs of the economy is relatively low and this is our biggest problem. So in Croatia, we don't have enough doctors of science, and those doctors that we have in science don't work in the economy, only 15%. In America, for example. 80%, in Europe 50%. It is similar with the structure of investment in research and development which is extremely low in private sector participation. Therefore, the 2006-2013 strategic framework for overcoming this situation stresses the need to speed up the creation of a national space based on excellence, openness to international knowledge-sharing, the evaluation of results according to best international practice and the inclusion of an intellectual property protection system. So far, scientific policy efforts in the Republic of Croatia have sought out our many scientific institutions, to remind you, we have 7 public universities, 25 public scientific institutes and many private scientific institutions, as well as various technological and development and research centres, which is better integrated into the European Research Area. Although the state provides support for scientific, research and development projects, as well as significant investments in scientific recruits, Croatia is still far from the optimal share that should be allocated from gross national income, which was recommended in the Europe 2020 Strategy, which I mentioned at the beginning of this presentation. The implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy is assessed among other things by the Innovation Union score board. That report, which follows national indicators for scientific research and innovation, assesses Croatia as quoting "a central innovator with below average impact". The smart innovation index is accompanied by several indicators of the innovation capacity of the European Union countries and in line with the Europe 2020 Strategy. These are human potentials in science, openness, excellence, the attractiveness of the scientific system, the financing of science and innovation, investment in companies, intellectual capital, the results of innovative businesses and the economic impact of innovation. The average of this index in the 27 countries of the European Union was 0.539 in 2011, unfortunately only 0.310. This is why we propose these amendments to the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science because we also respect the recommendations of the European Commission, which are mentioned in the 2010 Progress Report for Croatia, which highlights the need for greater involvement of Croatian scientists in European scientific and research programmes with an emphasis on the 7th Framework Programme, the promotion of private sector investment in scientific and research activities and the improvement of the system of funding for science in terms of putting emphasis on competitiveness and the encouragement of scientific projects and scientific potential, which is not the case in Croatia now. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports shall also implement the Action Plan for raising the absorption capacity of the Republic of Croatia by 7. Framework programme, however, so far the rate of success of Croatian scientists in 7. The Framework Programme is 16.4%, and if we look at the European average of 22.5%, we can say that so far we have not been successful. And at the very end of this introduction, I must say that the European Union sets four main strategic objectives through a strategic document that I have repeatedly quoted in Europe 2020. These are the real achievement of lifelong learning and mobility, improving the quality and efficiency of education and education, improving equality of social cohesion and active citizenship, and improving creativity and innovation, including entrepreneurship at all levels of education and education. That is exactly why we propose such changes and additions to the Croatian Foundation for Science Act and why we propose to go through an urgent procedure. The Croatian Foundation for Science was established by the National Foundation Act in December 2001. The first Management Board of the Foundation was established in 2003. Since then, the foundation has financed projects registered in competitions according to the principle of compatible competition. In July 2010, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, which changed its name, entered into force. The biggest problem that we want to solve with these amendments to the law is that there is no permanent state support left, so after the initials of 100 million kuna in the trust in the past eight years, the incredible 2 million 833 thousand kunas have been paid. I repeat, in eight years, 2 million 833 thousand kuna. What could have been done with that? This year's budget has provided this ministry with four times the amount of 10 million kuna. In 2006, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports launched a special programme of the Unity Fund with the help of the knowledge that was working under the Croatian technology development project financed by the World Bank loan. Through the project, the ministry provided more than 39 million kuna funds for the fund, representing 65% of the total value, while other funds were provided by international research institutions 8.7 million kuna, private sector 5.5 million and public scientific research institutions in the Republic of Croatia 6.1 million kuna. Keeping in mind everything I've talked about so far, as well as the current state of the national scientific system in which two programs for competitive projects operate, but at the same time without sufficient financial support, we feel that these programmes need to be united into one. Therefore, the assumptions of our ministry are that the preconditions for the Foundation to take over the central headquarters role in the evaluation of the financing of scientific projects, scientists and scientific organisations, by also implementing the Unity Fund programmes with the help of knowledge. What's important about the proposal that's in front of you? Therefore, the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, sets out the trust and support that the Foundation provides for basic, applied and developmental scientific research of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the types of programmes under which the Foundation will grant support shall be determined, and the users of the support structures and the procedure for their allocation, and the part-time work of the trust authorities shall be specified. The law lays down transitional and final provisions guaranteeing the rapid and functional start of work of the foundation in accordance with the new purpose, tasks and structure. It is very important that we also fulfil the obligations of the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 25 and the national programme for joining the European Union, as well as recommendations from the common position of the Member States of the European Union in Chapter 25, as well as reports from the European Commission on the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the adoption of this law meets the conditions and recommendations of the Strategic Framework for Development 2006-2013. And, of course, the key to everything, so no money, no trust. The law will ensure the conditions for the constant inflow of funds of the Foundation and the direction of its investment in research through clear and transparent procedures and international reviews without any political and party pressures. In the new period, the Foundation will fully develop a system of funding the most qualitative scientific research and for the financing of the most talented Croatian scientists who will be competent at European and world level. In order for Croatian science to be able to participate equally in all European scientific projects. Therefore, once again, it is necessary to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, in order to speed up the harmonisation of the Croatian system of science, higher education with the European Research Area and the European space of higher education. Please support the law we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12312	I thank Minister Jovanovic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the clubs. First of all, on behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the board, please. On behalf of the board? Here you go. What kind of committee is that now?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12313	Good afternoon, everyone. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 8th session held on 2 July 2012 the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 27 June 2012. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. In the introduction, the minister submitted an explanation, which you are just in the expanded, so now you've heard. Perhaps I should point out that you have received this record, so I do not repeat the words spoken by the minister. Given the fact that the financing of the science and higher education system in the Republic of Croatia is not satisfactory and needs to be changed. Most committee members supported that proposal, considering it as a major step in the development of the national scientific system as a whole. The opinion is that the current foundation system is dysfunctional and that it is necessary to change it. They also believe that the foundation will fully develop a system of funding programmes, best quality scientific research and the financing of the most talented Croatian scientists during the new programming period. The opinion of individual members of the board is not a good solution that the competent ministry has decided to pass the law in question by emergency procedure. They also believe that the implementation of it would turn the foundation into a body, which in the future would finance all scientific projects or all science in the Republic of Croatia. Discussing the entry from the scientific committees of the foundation, the opinion of individual board members that they were the same independent... I don't think they need to be lifted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is noted that there is no clear reason for amending the law, since all strategic objectives are mentioned in the opening presentation, can be implemented with the existing structure of the law. On the basis of the debate, however, the Committee proposed that the Committee propose to the Croatian Parliament with 6 votes for, 1 abstention, 2 against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12314	I thank Walter Boyuncic, president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. We're going to a club debate. So I invite the vice president of the home of the esteemed Željko Reiner to state the positions of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12315	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The HDZ club will by no means support the bill, because it believes it is extremely bad and harmful to Croatian science. First, as has been said on the board, it is quite clear that, according to the current Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, everything can be done, if health, science funding is to be improved in a more transparent way, in a more quality way and there is actually absolutely no objective reason to pass this law. There's of course a reason to pass this law, I'm going to make it very clear now. This law is passed in order to change the administration of the Croatian Foundation for Science, to place similar people in the current administration, which will then be managed on the one hand under the control of the Ministry of Science, or under the control of the Government directly. So, under political control, with the financing of science in Croatia, which is one significant step back in Croatia on the one hand. And on the other hand to actually cover up one fact, and that's going to be given a lot less money for science and science research because it's going to be from different pots, so to speak put into this one, under one title, and it's going to be said, is now there's more money in the Science Foundation. And of course there will be more money than before, but it will not be mentioned that there will be no more funding from the Ministry of Science, no more recruits, no more science projects, no more projects. All of this is about to come under the hat of this foundation. Of course, that's why we're doing an emergency procedure, there's no reason for the whole story to be brought in by an emergency procedure, below what I just said. If that were the case, there's one fact that's very bizarre. If something wants to be changed by a new law, then it usually points to what is wrong with the previous law and what is wrong with the Science Foundation so far. Interestingly, we are now discussing the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science without having heard or discussed the report on the activities of the same foundation last year. But on the agenda, a report on the foundation's activities last year will come after we discuss this law. That's totally bizarre, because if it's true that something was wrong with that trust, then I guess the report will be discussed first. So it will be said what is wrong with the report and what is wrong with it, and then possibly the idea that a new law should be passed that will supposedly improve it. That's not happening. We will discuss bizarrely again the report after we discuss the new bill and what makes sense then to discuss it. It is not true, of course, that this law is passed because of the unification with the European scientific space, in no way is that true. However, the foundations in Europe, what is called the national science find, have a completely different goal, an organization than this is proposed. This is actually one agency that's proposed it's not a foundation at all, it's known in the world that they're foundations. This will result in a whole series of problems for Croatia not only for this foundation. It will appear that EU funds could be used, it is clearly said that any foundation should be independent, politically independent, as it is not intended, because it must be given the consent of the Ministry of Science. But again, one bizarreness of the Ministry of Administration, although it has absolutely nothing to do with the administration, is quite likely then to assume whether the EU will give such a trust that has no fundamental postulate of the foundation and a fundamental postulate of scientific independence from politics at all. This refers in particular to one space in Europe that will be created by creating a Europe of science that will actually unite the foundations of all the countries in which I must now clearly say Croatia is not invited. Only three countries are not invited, Croatia is unfortunately one of the three countries. That should be said very clearly, and we all need to be very seriously pictured whether in the future with such a foundation anyone will then invite us into it or, unfortunately, not invite us. Another bizarre thing. We pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, without what is fundamental, and this is the Strategy of Science whose law and previous law should be one of the integral elements. So, if we don't know the strategy and we don't have a imagined strategy, we're now trying to fragmentally, however good or bad, to solve some fragments instead of having a strategy first, and then some elements that need to fit into that strategy are being worked out by individual laws. We don't even know what the future Law on Higher Education will look like. He's still gone, he's being created somewhere, and who's going to do this science? They're going to be doing high-school personnel, which are also those who conduct and science, mostly. Therefore, there is one of the great problems that arises. But what's serious all over the story is seriously what I said, it's actually going to create an institution that, unlike the previous one, will be completely subject to politics. The members of the Management Board of the Foundation will appoint the Assembly on a proposal we know what the composition of the Assembly is, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and now there is no longer what was in the current law that individual institutions, the top institutions of Croatian science, give their members within, from the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Rector's Assembly, etc., but now, according to this proposal, they will submit proposals, and then the Government may choose from these proposals something, perhaps give a completely different proposal. Therefore, there is no more proposing institutions of science than the Government appoints, accepting or not accepting individual proposals. This is, of course, the exact opposite of everything called scientific independence and what should actually represent such a foundation, and then, of course, the elected board of directors will choose between themselves presidents, vice presidents etc., and in fact, a structure that will be fully subject to politics will be created. What's particularly bad, unrelated to politics and political commitment is that one very good I would say is a solution that existed in the previous law and that has been revived, and these are scientific committees composed of top scientists from Croatia and abroad completely independent of any policy, ministry, government, etc., that they evaluate scientific projects, they are now being abolished. There are no scientific committees anymore, and the question is, how will review evaluation procedures be carried out in the future? Will they be conducted exclusively through a politically appointed board of directors and offices? The composition of scientific committees has so far included scientists not only from Croatia's top but also from outside Croatia. Now all of this is lifted, so this and the international element is eliminated, which is objective, completely independent, of course again on local political affinities towards individual scientists and groups, rather than objective. It is now completely eliminated and abolished, and this is evident in direct contrast with the fundamental points and motives of all that such a law should represent. Of course, the scientific independence of the foundation is also analyzed. It comes down to the extended arm of the ministry, i.e. the government, is politicizing it, and it certainly is not good because it actually strengthens the indications of state governance, political governance, political control of science, which by definition must be independent and international. Only valued by international criteria. The absence of such transparency in the process of establishing a board of directors and the abolition of these scientific committees, which I have already talked about, opens up a large space for potential manipulations, for the achievement of particular interests, etc. And it's certainly very worrying because, of course, it opens up a whole series of issues related to the competence of scientific project promoters with their credibility, etc. There is one big concern that such an etatization of the work so far of an independent foundation will, in fact, be introduced by the institution of the previous consent that the ministry must give to all key acts, to the Statute, to the Regulation on the procedure of the funds, the Annual Work Plan, etc., will actually be aware that the board of directors appointed by the ministry, the ministry will monitor all of this together and, of course, will be aware of practically one ministry service instead of an independent trust as it existed so far. This proposal, which is equally worrying, does not specify the academic and scientific conditions for members of that and such a board of directors to be appointed by the policy. Thus, this eliminates the only actual filter that could be expected to inaugurate high scientific criteria, because systematic mining of members through public institutes, universities, Croatian Academy of Science and Art, etc. Now he actually erases himself and disappears. Therefore, this abolition of the scientific committees as independent international judgmental bodies does not actually have any more obstacles that in the entire administrative system of the Croatian Foundation for Science may, of course, hope that this will not happen, but theoretically, there can be no one with any research authority or reference. So this is exactly what this proposal means, and that's why we don't think he's good. Now, as far as transitional provisions are concerned. There's going to be a vacuum where there won't be any funding for science. The paper came today to extend the funding of Z projects by October 1st. By October 1st, no matter how clear it is for all of us that, in fact, the terror of most people will again be voted on by this, such a bad law. Unfortunately for all of us, it's clear to us that this is going to happen. However, by October 1st, everything that the transitional provisions of this law claim will have to be done will not succeed. Because when you count those deadlines, it's 310 days. That in real life means minimum years and a half. In a year and a half, so we don't know what's gonna happen in the meantime. I don't know how many times we're going to prolong this agony with the miserable financing of Z projects, or we're going to look optimistically at how, with about three to four times less money than we've been given for science before, we're going to put in the same basket of science recruits and science projects that have so far been funded by the Ministry of Science, and so far there's no money left to hide, so it's going to be put into the Science Foundation. And unity with knowledge, a fund that also had nothing to do with the Science Foundation. Because so far, I remind the Science Foundation has funded exclusively large projects aimed at solving important matters for the Republic of Croatia. Now, however, it becomes a single basket in which all the funding and funding of individual Z projects and funding of recruits and unity with the help of knowledge and all this is combined with significantly less money than it was before. Therefore, we can expect that all those wonderful flossules that are so much remembered that the only knowledge and science can draw us out of this deep crisis in which Croatia is located remain completely clear flossules because, of course, the money will certainly be less, and only politics will manage who will receive the scientific project and how much money it will receive from this scientific project. Therefore, the fact is that this law means one significant step back, one step which means asphyxiation of autonomy and freedom of scientific work, and that is certainly why the Croatian Democratic Community club will be very active against that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At least I can't agree in one part with you. I won't say, it's article 214. I would suggest a slightly lighter version of the term, not the terror of the majority, but the will of the majority. I hope you agree with me. Thank you. In front of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Cvetović Ljiljana, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12317	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12318	You didn't get Lucic's word. I commented because I considered it appropriate to protect all of our other representatives here in the Parliament. And I didn't, I said he's on the verge of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Shuker, while I am chairing if you and your colleague, Mlakar, have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you consider the Rules of Procedure injured, I say I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. You can follow the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure's written request. Yeah, okay. Comrade Cvetovic, please. Yeah, yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12319	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The basis for the adoption of this law is the strategic framework for development from 2006 to 2013 and the Government of Croatia programme for the period 2011 to 2015, which highlights the advantage of higher education and scientific research that will be in line with the needs of social development of the labour market and the strengthening of the competitiveness of Croatian material and immaterial values. This legislative proposal sets out the trust and support the Foundation provides for scientific research which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. By discussing the role of the Foundation's scientific committees, we are of the opinion that committees should not be abolished as provided for in the provision of Article 1(4) of the Treaty on European Union. A bill of law. Namely, the current provision of the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science prescribes that the bodies of the Foundation are the Management Board, the Scientific Committees, the Executive Director and the other bodies designated by the Statute of the Foundation. The new provision abolishes scientific committees and other bodies. The scientific committees of the Foundation were established in March and April 2011. When they started their work, and with the technical, administrative support of the Foundation Evaluation Department, they carried out an independent and professional evaluation process for all project proposals received. At the beginning of this year, the Foundation marked 10. The anniversary of my draft. She welcomed the anniversary in a very difficult situation because the legal solutions to her funding had not been implemented. So the foundation has established a system and procedures, but not the means to achieve the programme. This bill will ensure a constant inflow of funds to the trust, as well as a focus on its investment in the most prominent research through clear and transparent procedures and international reviews. Given the fact that funding of the science and higher education system in the Republic of Croatia is not a satisfactory level, we support the proposed legislative provisions aimed at developing the national scientific system as a whole. On the agenda of this session, a report from the Croatian Science Foundation for 2011 We believe that the report was to be discussed first, and only then to discuss the bill. In this way, the debate would be much better quality because we would be better acquainted with the work of the law and the achievement of the project. The club of HSU representatives will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12320	Thank you too, colleagues. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have injured Rules of Procedure Article 209 because it writes nicely to the representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure the President gives his word as soon as he has asked and should not wait for the presentation to be completed earlier announced. I now raised this tile before my colleague started speaking, and since you are chaired by Article 206 of the Assembly if you wish to give your valuables, then you must give your word as a representative and speak as a representative, not as chair of the meetings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12322	Thank you for interpreting my colleague, Mlakar. I'm saying that the breach of the Rules of Procedure wasn't in part like you said. In fact, I've already given my word to a colleague and practice in this House is that when the speaker is finished, then he gets to not interrupt in his speech. The other thing is, if I were to chair, I would have told my colleague, Vice President Reiner, in good faith, whether it was terror or government, in good faith. Injury of the Rules of Procedure again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12323	Mr. Vice President. The practice of the Croatian Parliament cannot be against the rules of the Rules of Procedure. You must stick to the Rules of Procedure and you should have given me your word when I asked her for all this further unnecessary explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12324	Also scratching the Rules of Procedure's injuries that a parliamentary representative cannot speak until he has received the presidency's word. So by that logic, by your logic of things interpreting not by practice, I would have to every few seconds not by myself but by the many who chair here, make warnings or something like that. I mean, let's be correct, let's be toleranced, let's be toleranced, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12325	If the Rules of Procedure are prescribed that you give the word when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure immediately before the other MPs, then you were obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12326	I will not repeat myself but I will repeat what I have said before, so if you think that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, please in writing to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and I hope that this will be used in interpreting or new provisions of the Rules of Procedure that such dilemmas will no longer be. Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go. Excuse me, there's been a bit of a mix-up. A colleague, Domagoj Hajduković, on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen representatives. The Republic of Croatia's negotiating position on Chapter 25, for non-acquainted, is Science and Research, as well as the common position of the EU Member States in Chapter 25, stress the need to strengthen the national research system and improve the system of evaluation of scientific projects, scientists and scientific organisations. The 2006-2013 strategic framework underlines the need to speed up the creation of a national space based on excellence, the flow towards international knowledge exchange, the evaluation of results according to respected international practice and the inclusion of an intellectual property protection system. Information on the results of EU accession negotiations with the Republic of Croatia of the General Administration of the European Commission on Enlargement points out that EU Member States should take a number of policy measures and carry out activities aimed at increasing research investment, ensuring researchers' mobility and having quality-experienced research institutions open to participation by all research entities from Europe. The creation of innovation is also needed to contribute to the development of the Union's vision as an innovation union. I think the definition of the Republic of Croatia in this respect is more than familiar. We strive to be a land of knowledge, a land of science, a land of innovation. According to these efforts in 2001, the Croatian Foundation for Science was founded then the National Foundation for Science, which was supposed to be a roof organization for financing and improving Croatian science. However, the problems of the Croatian Foundation for Science begin from its establishment because the foundation has not achieved its tasks since the very beginning. Why is that? The first part of the problem lies in the fact that the foundation has not always financed the items and projects that should have had priority or which should have been the core of its action. This is how important funds are invested in higher education projects, project implementation of the Bologna process, adaptation to the same common European framework, etc. while scientific projects have been on the sidelines. I believe you'll agree with me that education or education should be a high school in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science. Why didn't the Ministry of Science get involved enough in that part? That's the second question. The second part of the problem lies in the fact that the foundation did not have a permanent inflow of funds from the state budget during its existence. In 2001, the foundation of funds that were allocated was equal to 100 million kuna. Next year, so 2002. 50 million, 2003. 35 million, while the total investment of the Republic of Croatia in the trust in the period 2004 to 2011 is therefore worth 2.8 million kuna. Therefore, the foundation did not have sufficient resources to complete its mission and the resources available as mentioned earlier did not finance projects according to strategic priorities but supported a wide range of basic and applied research through various tenders. Although the Foundation has achieved some shifts in the organisational and human resources needed to achieve European standards in the evaluation and monitoring of research projects and scientists, its further strengthening and reconstruction should lead to a central role in the financing of competitive scientific projects in the Republic of Croatia. This is also in line with world practice where scientific projects are financed from trust funds whether they are foundations in state, private, corporate or some third property. The problem of the Croatian scientific scene is that scientific activity is financed from several sources that are not connected to each other. So I'm talking about the Ministry of Science, the Unity Fund with the help of knowledge and the Croatian Foundation for Science. Therefore, if we take into account that we currently have two successful programmes for competitive projects that individually do not have sufficient resources to generate a significant step in scientific research, our view is that existing programmes need to be united in order to establish independent, integrated systems of support for scientific research. We believe that the foundation should take over central roles in the evaluation and financing of scientific projects and scientists. This should be achieved by implementing, in its current activities, the Unity Fund programmes with the help of knowledge and the gradual takeover of scientific recruiting programmes through foundation projects which will continue to finance PhDs and post-doctorates through scientific projects. In this way, all resources are pooled into science and scientific research within the framework of an independent institution to enable the integration of similar and related projects, as well as the joint use of existing capacities. Therefore, this law is a step towards harmonisation and enhanced and rational capacitation of Croatian scientific projects and scientists. This legislative proposal specifies the purpose and tasks of the foundation as well as the support provided by the Foundation for basic and developmental scientific research which are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. Finally, by this legislative proposal, the Republic of Croatia fulfils the obligations of the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 25. Science and research and the National Programme for the Accession of the European Union and recommendations from the common position of the Member States of the European Union in Chapter 25 and the European Commission's Progress Report of the Republic of Croatia. We also believe that the adoption of this law will create conditions for the constant inflow of funds and will focus its investment in the most prominent research as well as the harmonisation and capacitation of Croatian scientific projects and scientists. For these reasons, the SDP Club of Representatives of Croatia will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12328	Thank you. On your exhibit, we have one correction to the incorrect quote, colleague Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Hajdukovic incorrectly said that the foundation had not financed scientific projects in the past period. It is incorrect because around 450 projects were funded by more than 70 million kunas, which were decided by the Board of Directors for Finance, and are now proposed to abolish the board. So I'm asking you who's going to approve of finance and these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12330	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Branko Vukšić. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12331	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Mostly we like to spread big words like those of Croatia is a land of knowledge. How many times have we heard that fleet at the time of the government, say HDZ? At the time, Minister of Science and Education Dragan Primorac knew how to subflate not only when it comes to science and education but also to move towards the top of the elite society. The truth is different. We're moving in a free fall to the bottom. The minister cared more about his image than about science and education. From what is happening in the crisis that we are deeply experiencing before we are a land of ignorance rather than a land of knowledge. How much is this Zagreb University worth in the world? How much do we appreciate knowledge ourselves? How much do we appreciate science? How much do we involve scientists in solving the crisis? Anything that can stimulate development, but what is equally important is the application of science in the day-to-day functioning of society should be supported. Can science develop if we treat science as expendable? For science, there's usually no money, there's never been enough money for science. It's not enough now, it's not nearly enough. Scientists are pushing themselves to the margins, they're unwanted, the media is ignoring them. And as much as we're saying there's no money we know that it was wasted unintendedly, that it was stolen, alienated, that there was money for all of it, there was no money for science. True, it is partly the condition that scientists themselves and the institutions where scientists are gathered. They're guilty because they're closed, because they're elitist, because they don't want their knowledge even when they can put it into the function of society. This amendment to the Law on the Croatian Science Foundation will improve the state of science, according to legislators. Can this actually be done by cosmetic change of law or by changing the policy attitude towards science. I think we need to change our policy towards science. Should policy have a direct impact on science? Not that he shouldn't, but he shouldn't. There is an impression that this law is changing just to make human changes. We need to change theirs to get ours now. The procedure is respected here, but the meaning is similar to that of the first Deputy Prime Minister Radiir Cacic's logic, and remember who's e-mailing the one from the e-mail and death who says fuck-up procedure, set up ours, now it's our five minutes. With a little procedure, the rest is carried out behind the scenes. The law certainly is not, and no law can provide for the flow of money. The Labourists, of course, will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12332	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12333	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. In a number of debates, the previous ones said really from different positions, and a whole series of good and quality theologians that I would agree with in many ways, and this one on the left and those on the right in some thesis. For example, MP Vuksic mentioned handsomely a quote by Minister Primorac about how we move in society, how we move into the society of elites. Of course, in the science segment, there's no talking about it. We're not moving. We in the elite society may only be moving at the price of gasoline we are here somewhere in the company of the most popular European peoples and a little bit in the price of electricity and gas. That's where we catch the European elite. I also share the impression actually of the predecessor, Mr Vuksic, that in some ways it is about changing one another in order to come another. Highly esteemed former chairman of the Management Board of Professor Kostovic and as his professor and as our prominent brain research scientist, a very fertile author of a large number of works, head of academics and others and prominent HDZ official before I think there was no opportunity to actually discuss the previous year's report. That's right. Here we had a chance to read the report on the work of the Foundation for the previous year. I certainly wouldn't give that report a positive assessment. It's very vague, it's very strangely written. The financial indicators are rather strange and it really seems that something in this Foundation should be changed without regard for the President of the Management Board and all other people listed there on the Management Board and in other parts of it means these Foundations. On the other hand, it is my impression, and it is our impression that the thesis presented by Professors is also very good. Rainer, as this is about over-eatization of the Foundation, and that's our impression. So the state and the ministry in an excessive way want to embrace that foundation. Of course, it has so far been well controlled by one political group, but it has not yet been as embraced politically as you are now thinking to embrace, embrace and hold tightly with this proposal to amend and supplement the law. We don't see exactly where these changes are going, what are the final goals. So there's a possibility if you want certain people to replace that possibility exists without these changes. If they want to change some things in the Foundation, and that report shows that they need to be changed because that report is not a report that can be satisfied, the report that speaks of the work of a Croatian Foundation for Science is at least such an impression of me. It's almost at the level of one half serious like this half-professionally amateur work written so with financial indicators that are really interesting in how and how money is spent. But on the other hand, what about this restrictively ethically pressured trust? So I can't just use scientific foundations to manage how the projects will be implemented and put into place, to lay hands. Therefore, they would support a new foundation of the Foundation, but would not be willing to support the state control and supervision of the ministry established over the foundation. Therefore, in the case of this law, the HDSSB club will be abstentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12334	Thanks, buddy. On behalf of the IDS representative club, colleague Valter Boljunčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12335	Good evening again.- I'm sorry. The IDS Club will support the amendment of the Foundation Act. Namely, this science part falls first of all into the problem of funding science. The problem of science funding is probably the biggest science problem we have today, which leads to financing and links to the economy, and also to private funding where sometimes it is difficult to determine the reasons for who is the cause and who is the consequence. In science in Croatia there is a bigger problem, so this one side of the organisation of work in science than science as such. In fact, we have a whole series of scientists who in Croatia and out there achieve quite good results but that is not the fact that they were ignorant until they crossed the border and that suddenly, by crossing the border, they became world-renowned experts. One of the basic things about funding, and we all know that the amount given for science is small is that if there are limited resources that are then better managed by them. In this sense, this change of law will be one central unit, so one trust fund that will manage the funds that the ministry has managed so far and the various funds that have been reported. But perhaps unlike the ministry’s own management, one of the objectives of the foundation will be to try to attract more significant funds from the economy or from private funding in some way. Therefore, I believe that this change where there will be one central funding body is quite important because it will be better able to manage limited resources. A few years ago in a new cycle of scientific projects, it was said that 10 to 15000 per year on projects of ten, 15 people are nothing that is true and that stronger projects will be financed. Unfortunately, there was nothing, and the situation remained the same. Among other things, if Croatia is one of only three countries whose trust has not been received, it also says little about the need to consider changing the foundation. Furthermore, there has been a lot of talk about how the Management Board, the Council, etc. is elected. After the change. However, I have a higher impression that in a whole series of laws that are related to higher education and for science wants to keep the status quo at all costs, it wants to retain the status quo and there are different exceptions to the need to bring the strategy first, that it is important etc. The science strategy as far as I know she's been working she's not gonna suddenly bring some whole tenth of what the community expects and not the moment the strategy comes, the money comes from itself. Therefore, I believe that these changes are necessary because science is in our possession except for funding and on an organisational basis at a rather low level. As for choosing the administration, it is said that it will now be directly supported in some way, but if you look at the decisions that were in the old foundation, the process is the same. With this new proposal spreading because, apart from what the Chamber of Auditors said, the Senate, the HAZU Employers' Association is now giving a broader debate that any of the scientists from the academic community should give their proposal in a broader debate and on the basis of the choice of the administrative council. The difference compared to the old one was only defined in the old ones to, say, give the institute 4, universities 2, HAZU 1 members, but it should not be a member from that area but rather on their proposal. So I think that this new proposal is how management is chosen because it's included as in the old law all plus and the wider community, so all scientists, in some ways, give more democracy. As far as the Committee on Individual Areas is concerned, I hope that this will be settled by the Labour Regulation because this law states that permanent and occasional bodies can be formed and I am sure that the 7-member board will not decide on all the tenders that occur, especially since they are from various areas of choice. Therefore, we support the changes needed in science. We consider this one of the first steps in a series of laws that should come, either about changing the law or about new laws. We believe that the limited resources that exist at this time must be managed much better which is one of the objectives of the Foundation, and therefore, by detaching part of the funds from the Ministry into the Foundation, it is somehow distanced and potential that the Foundation is one institution that must, and only by its actions, collect money from different foundations, whether it is made from the economy, whether it is done from the public-private sector or of course from European and international funds. And I guess it's going to be about funding and... they include in this part of the collaboration projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since it is about amendments to the law, I say which improves the existing organisation and structure, which would refer to the fact that if it has not been discussed before in the 2011 Report it is and it is not so important because if the 2011 Report is accepted, which we subcommittees have put forward, it does not mean that something should not be changed. So, once again, not to be too long because it's been quite said, I think this proposal is a good one. The IDS Club will support the bill, but the basic fact is, of course, no matter what, to boost funding. And in the funding itself, we talk a lot about how much money the country of Europe gives but sometimes forgets that this amount of money is given is not all from the state but from the private sector as well. At this point, we have one handle 22 which the private sector may not be able to accept either PhDs or scientific achievements. On the other hand, automatic science does not produce this because there is nowhere to do so so that at some point it needs to break that vicious circle and give one incentive to start with the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12336	Thank you, too. The word came out on behalf of the promoter, Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all the representatives of the clubs for contributing to the debate on the law we have proposed. The debates of all who were actually fully confirm the correctness of the proposal that is before you. So you said yourself when it comes to science politics isn't important and politics can't be. After all, the foundation was launched in 2001, then there was another coalition in power, after which some other parties were in power. And the main argument that this foundation in the way it now works is not working for the good of science was heard and from the debate of all of you who have discussed here whether or not they supported or supported this proposal, so also academic Rainer was quoting, quoting him that in these 8 years there has been a lot of evidence that the foundation works well, and in fact 2 million 833 thousand kunas are proof that the Management Board of Foundation has not worked well. Let's face it, the Treasury Management Board has been tasked with providing extra money for the treasure. That's the purpose of the trust when we talk about funding, not waiting for the state to give him money. Therefore, if we talk about the work of the Trust Management Board, he did not do his job well because he did not provide additional funding for the foundation. Ethatization, I don't know why you're so afraid that we want to etatize the work of the foundation. That's where you state as an argument from the Ministry of Administration. The Ministry of Administration is mentioned for the simple reason why its consent must be sought under the General Law on Foundations and Foundations. It's our legal obligation. In the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, when we took over the ministry, we said that there was a lot of chaos and disorder in many segments. And to solve that problem must go in two directions. That's what we do. So, first of all, we started to change all the laws regarding the education, science and sports sector and all those six laws we managed to prepare and you will discuss them until the summer break. So these are from the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, not to list the others, the second week will be debated. At the same time, we set out to do what you said was a problem, but I ask you without wanting to go back to the past at all because the past has no use anymore, but why has the strategy for development of education, education and science not been adopted? How has the Foundation Act changed twice when there was no Strategy for development of education, education and science in the Republic of Croatia? So, parallel to these legal changes where we're going to say this in a picturesque way and a roof that misses the system of education and science, we're also doing a new strategy. All relevant participants of the education, education and science systems will be involved in the development of a new Strategy for Education, Education and Science in the Republic of Croatia. Guidelines were developed in cooperation with the HAZU. In the next few weeks, we will probably also appoint the National Strategic Authority and the National Operational Body for the Development of the Strategy for Education, Education and Science, which will work in peace, to be of the highest quality that it does not have to be overnight until the end of the year, and then, based on it, a whole new system of education, education and science will be created in the Republic of Croatia by the end of our term of office. And just a few sentences about the suspicions of the people who will lead this foundation in the future. So everyone now on the board of directors can be run. Well, it clearly says here that they will be selected from the ranks of top scientists, especially those who have world-renowned scientific papers and results, taking care of the representation of all scientific areas. Candidates for members of the Management Board of Foundations The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall establish on the basis of proposals submitted by the scientific institutes, the Rector's Assembly, the University Senates, the HAZU, the HGK, the Employers' Association and that I do not count any further. As far as the untruth is concerned, I have two things to say to end the scientific committees here. Do you know all of you who talk about the quality of the work of scientific committees, how the scientific committees were elected? So all scientific committees were appointed by one man. One man decided who would be on the scientific committees. President Kostovic. Is that the best way? I don't think so. What are the costs of the scientific committees, do you know? Consider the report Mr. from the HDSSB spoke of. So the scientific committees don't have to be abolished. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Management Board may establish permanent and occasional scientific and expert committees composed of domestic and foreign experts to collect proposals for scientific projects, analyses and assessments of these proposals, processing, applications, etc., etc. So we stay with the proposal as I put it out and we accept all the amendments that it has submitted to the text of this legislative proposal to the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12338	Thank you, Minister. We're continuing an individual debate. First, MP Jasen Mesic signed up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now, since we've had a chance to hear from the minister, I'm going to start clean in principle. The amendments to the final proposal for this Act on Amendments and Supplements have 1, 2, 8, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 articles. In my view, the proposal for a new law is certainly worth it because if only a change is a problem in the fact that the Foundation's administration has not done well or that such things have happened that the minister has now said, then it is resolved by amending it in two articles. In principle, I would also like to say that this has been discussed by the Rector's College as far as I am aware of the University of Zagreb. And this question that you said about ethics didn't just come out of the council benches, it came from the university's rectorate. And I'm not really sure, and I don't really believe that the university rectorate doesn't care that the Science Foundation works better to work better, I'm not sure that in some of the analyses that the University of Zagreb's rectorate makes in the directorate says this is more control of the state and ministry of the foundation than it has ever been. I don't see it as a political assessment, I see it as a particular professional analysis. In the light of the law, the first chapter mentions the strengthening of competitiveness, the intelligent development of society. That's what the intelligent development of society says. I'm not quite sure what that means. And what strengthening competitiveness means, for example, for social and humanistic sciences, is written there to finance projects from that period, but at least one sentence should have been added. I'm not quite sure that the study of sociology, psychology, philosophy, ethnology, archaeology, history and everything else aims to strengthen competitiveness. I also want to say that in some ways this fusion with the Unity Fund with the help of knowledge, that the calling unit was introduced through the World Bank's loan. You should see if all the conditions that were obtained in the realization of that loan are respected here. What I'm trying to say is that perhaps the most important thing here is the transitional and final provisions. And what I also want to say is that something that is considered intellectual property has been completely neglected and that, in some ways, these amendments and additions to the Science Foundation Act are completely lost in view of this question of intellectual property which should in some way be capital that these projects that are funded should be in place. Assessment of the resources necessary for the adoption of this law. I have to say that here the most is based on the 2013 and 2014 projections. Can we believe that we will have an increase in 2013, 2014 Mr. Minister, as stated here in the light of the law? I'm not so sure. I hope so, I believe everyone here would like to have as much resources for science as possible. I honestly doubt that. And the reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure. If it is already in the reasoning of the law, and if this is true and what Mr. Vice President of the Parliament has said, Mr. Reiner that it will take more than 300 days for the implementation of all of this, then it is completely unclear why we are going to pass the law in an emergency procedure and what a more concrete result this can achieve for Croatian science than that we go to first and second reading unless the urgent procedure will be carried out before the transitional and final provisions are reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12340	Thank you. Next up for discussion Martina Banic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12341	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science with the final proposal of the law. The Croatian Foundation for Science was established by the Law on the National Foundation for Higher Education and Technology Development in the Republic of Croatia in December 2001. The idea of the foundation has been clear since the beginning of its work the foundation has launched a large number of programmes that have supported fields and issues in the system of science and higher education that have been recognised as a priority. After the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports established the "Knowledge Unity" Fund for a part of these programmes, the foundation no longer opened tenders to avoid overlapping the Foundation and Fund programmes. According to the UKF Economic Institute's evaluation study, the projects had numerous benefits that had special meaning for strengthening the research potential of Croatian scientists. It's obvious we have two successful programs. However, the legislator unites these projects and fully ignores the fact that all science in the Republic of Croatia will now be financed by the Foundation. We are aware that the foundation of the past years has been faced with problems due to the absence of permanent state support, yet organisational and staff assumptions have been created to meet European standards in the evaluation, monitoring and financing of research projects and scientists. It sounds good, though, to hear that 10 million kuna is foreseen in the 2012 state budget for the foundation's activities. But it is clear that we will not be able to spend these funds because before that it is necessary to appoint the Management Board of the Foundation, the Executive Director, and then the Management Board of the Foundation should coordinate the statutes of the Foundation with the provisions of this law, to deliver it to the Ministry of Science, and once this consent is obtained, it is again necessary to agree with the Ministry of Management. It is then necessary to adopt a general act of that trust, an action plan, a call for public calls for applications for scientific projects, and it is necessary to adopt a draft strategic plan for the five-year period within six months of the date of the establishment of the Management Board of the Foundation. From the above, it is clear that this year, out of the planned 10 million kuna, nothing will be possible to spend, given the deadlines I have just mentioned. My colleagues and colleagues, it is difficult to take away the impression that the bill that we are discussing today is the most changing in human terms. According to the proposal, the Management Board of the Foundation will have 7 members, members appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government from the ranks of top scientists, and candidates for members of the Management Board of the Foundation The Government determines on the basis of proposals from the rectorial assembly, university boards, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, etc. So far, we've had nine members of the trust board, and now it's been suggested that this number be reduced to 7. Changes shall also be made in the way members of the Management Board are elected. So far, the government has identified candidates as follows: 4 on the proposal of public scientific institutes, 2 on the proposal of the rectorial assembly, and one on the proposal of the HAZU, the National Council on Science and the Croatian Association of Employers. In the future, the government will establish candidates on its own, and it can happen that for example there are no HAZU representatives because the government can do so now and it does not have to do so. Such changes will certainly not contribute to transparency in the work of the foundation. But that's not the only problem, the bill we're discussing today is more specific to which acts the foundation brings. Thus, the Management Board of Foundations will lose its independence through these changes. The reason is that the Foundation's Management Board will not be able to adopt an annual work programme and a financial plan without the ministry's prior consent. In this way, the foundation becomes an extended arm of the ministry, which practically controls all key components of the foundation's work. In conclusion, I can say that we are making the law by emergency procedure again, trying to implement the human transformation of the Science Foundation as soon as possible. The amendments and additions to the laws are amended by 12 of the 20 articles, and the amendments that have been proposed along with the human cruises in the good part of Croatia and in the existing way of financing scientific research in the Republic of Croatia. The question that's being asked is certainly why we're changing the law. The reason should be with the aim of creating as good conditions as possible for young scientists, and before us again is the final proposal for a law which is the only goal of providing similar ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12342	Thank you. The next one was reported by Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the assessment of the state of play of the bill states that the basis for the proposed law is the strategic framework for development from 2006 to 2013, which highlights the commitment to higher education and scientific research that will be in line with the needs of social development and the labour market, strengthening the competitiveness of Croatian material and immaterial values. I deeply believe that no one here in the High House has any objections to these accentes. I'd really say the word in Podravina. But he says that the second foundation of this law is the government's 2011 programme by 2015, and there's something to say. There would indeed be something to say, for there is indeed a lot of things that are not being set up in that program. We have to say all over the area and really from the transport infrastructure we from my midst, there was an emphasis on transport infrastructure, highways, now nothing, care, is doing anything further on this matter. If we don't talk about the issue of agriculture, so it's never worse, and it's said to work, we'll do it in that part, so look what happened. Please, nice. ... That's right, everything's gonna be fine. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, even in education, I didn't see that in the budget there was some big... of course we also had a commitment to Chapter 25 that was spoken of. I do not want to repeat myself, and where the need to strengthen the national research system and improve the system of evaluation of scientific projects is highlighted. Therefore, the report also insists on strengthening the results. And in that part, for sure, this foundation played a significant role and achieved certain results of what was said. But look, and I noticed this circumstance that Vice President Reiner was talking about that the annual report of the Croatian Science Foundation is so after this point that everyone, here's a colleague from HSU, noticed that it doesn't make any sense, there's no logic to go on. And look now, in this report, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which is signed by fellow Bleuncic, who is said to have launched the foundation, has launched a series of programs that are recognised in the Croatian scientific public. The contribution of the Foundation to the system of higher education and science in the last 10 years is the fact that more than 450 projects worth 70 million kuna have been approved by the Management Board for financing. And also to ensure the source and funding of the best projects, the Foundation has developed a professional, strict process of competitive evaluation of project proposals. So he's saying all that enough. The Foundation's Management Board has therefore made a step in the work of the foundation by calling for tenders for research projects and cooperation research programmes and which have contributed to the increase of project proposals for the Foundation's competitions. So all this says that good things are done, all this is good. So I don't see one team, let's just say in a simple dictionary, now the European football championship has ended, who achieved good results doesn't need to be changed. Well, you saw what happened to the coaches who changed a lot, and that old experienced fox... you see what he did. You see, there's... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And we in medicine have another rule, one other rule, so here's my Boro fellow upstairs he doesn't cut where there's no tumor. Boro, you cut, you don't cut. It's just that there's no need, and I think this way, all the predecessors said in this second part, I don't think there's any need. But I'm worried about another moment, another moment of relationships, always talking about science, improving science. And there's another problem ahead of us. In a few days, therefore, one item on the agenda was the resolution of the chairman of the Committee on Science, Professor Pavelic, because a criminal application was filed against him, a criminal application was filed. I read it. Please, maybe if I'm wrong, correct me. I see he's here, so I don't see it, and 10 days ago, we had a case where the vice president was convicted of something, and now they've all continued to interpret it. It doesn't seem logical to me, and somehow there are unbalanced criteria. And in that sense, here's in these circumstances, as I said, so we have to approach certain things in a very good way with arguments, and to me there's something unclear I can't support it and for these reasons I won't support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12344	Thank you. We have two replicas. Boro Grubisic was the first to answer. Here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12345	My colleague Milinkovic, first of all this personal remark or observation that I'm not cutting, I'm not cutting because HDZ didn't give me surgery to approach. But well, it has nothing to do with the Science Foundation like you used agriculture and highways at the Science Foundation. It is, in fact, that we have not really heard from the Assembly and the 2011 Report of the Foundation, so that, on that basis, we have some qualified debates. Then we can put the arguments on both sides, and we can put this third side on the table, so we can see what was done and what wasn't done. The fact itself already casts doubt, therefore, that this Law, the legislative proposal, is now going, and without reporting for 2011. I've already cast my suspicions at least this much, maybe I've mildly said this to say possibly some new staffing like that billing proposal about HRT is the exact same thing as taking over television, taking over the Science Foundation. And since they are as bad as Mr. Djurovic said the financial results were dilettantly written, that is, in the report he saw. Well, I think it would be best, given that Dinamo always stood well, if Mr. Mamic were in that Science Foundation because he's doing this great job managemently and would secure safe resources for science. Thank you very much. And football is science after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12346	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I agree with you that the emergency is not good in no case, and all the predecessors here have agreed that there is no urgency, that good preparation, quality preparation is very delayed, so that something is done in a different way. And here, indeed, all the predecessors, and even on the left, have in some way expressed their own reserves. But I'm even more concerned about all of this when it's going, trying, going at that speed, that kind of force, and then trying to convince you that it's all good. It's a good price increase, so it'll all go well, it'll advance. Well, it can't be! I can't tell my friend there who says that I can't tell him that he's okay, because he's got a hundred contradictors right now. He says it's not good, that these circumstances that violate citizens' standards, the quality of life certainly doesn't contribute enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12348	Thank you. We have another replica, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Milinkovic, I really care about you and your colleagues from HDZ for the Science Foundation, especially if we consider, that during the period 2004 to 2009, the Foundation for Science from the Republic of Croatia received 2.8 million kuna directly from the state budget. So if we divide it into an annual level, that's about $350,000. So it's for the development of science very, very little. And I agree with you that the Foundation has really encouraged certain scientific projects, but since the funds were extremely limited, they could have been very small particular projects that as such could not have made a more significant step in our scientific output which we want to underline here. You also mentioned football. Well, I'd say our boys did their best, that they fought and that they achieved a certain result. Whether or not we would be satisfied with him, so I would personally be much more pleased if we had entered at least a quarter of the finale. But obviously, with a setting like this, something will have to change here to achieve a better result. So we are changing now to capitalise our scientific results, which I think really Croatia can offer very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12350	Thank you. Here you go. I'd just like to beg, here's a sorry colleague please let me ask you that when we give you a view from the pay phone, when you lift hold so much here I haven't noticed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12351	I look out of respect for my companion, Mr. Vice President. So I'm gonna hear what he's gonna tell me. [[/Invader Batinić: Well, but the bat can stand in the air. Here you go.]] I appreciate your thinking, colleague Hajdukovic, but we care about everything. I told you about the quality of life of all our citizens. For farmers, those who are in a catastrophic state, who do not receive support in agriculture, who are struck by drought from all sides, and we experience science as the flower of all that must be discussed most. And it's nice for you to say that ours played well and did well. But here counts, please here I'm looking at him. All right, now, but this is what this is all about. But it seems to me that this bill, this speed, and this assurance of yours, is leading us to another league. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12352	Thank you. Next up for the debate, Ante Babic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12353	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, a few days on these terms isn't easy and this long, so apparently colleagues allow themselves some pucks, dogs easy to say. But this is too serious, and we shouldn't be talking about the changes and additions of this law to some kind of jumps already entering the metric. My colleague Banic was actually talking about the Croatian Foundation for Science, its founding. A fellow Mesic also counted laws that change and said a new law should be made, so I will not repeat that I am not taking up precious time. But I will note that the foundation has these five scientific committees and should be mentioned for natural sciences, technical sciences and technology, biotechnology and agriculture, biomedicine, health, social and humanities and national identity. What is important and what I have often written with the Foundation is to assist the Foundation, which is to support scientists from abroad. I believe, and recently I was at a Croatian World Congress that the vast majority of our scientists who are integrated into countries in which they live can contribute greatly not only to this foundation but also to the state as a whole. So, among other things, we talked about it, unless it's possible to go through the foundation, or through state institutions, to go through maybe local administration and self-government units, so that it can be helped mainly because of the ability to withdraw certain funds from cohesion funds, which we heard in the previous presentation from Mr. Greek Minister. But what I am not pleased with, what I am afraid of, and I have reason to change the amendments and proposals of this law not only because of these technical details, instead of 8,7 board members and some small things related to the collection of the very foundation itself, but this urgency of its adoption has been explained by the harmonisation of the Croatian system of science and higher education with the European Research Area. Almost to believe it. But let's not play with fire. Amendments and additions to this law serve to select under the control of the state a new similar board of directors, and this can be dangerous because the European Commission will find it difficult to finance projects not of foundations, in this case the foundation is something else entirely, it is a trust as an independent non-profit organisation with its own resources and is an institution that has its own property. This could be more about the agency under a political patronage. The trusts must actually be independent. In this case, the Government appoints and accepts proposals, which is not scientific independence. A structure is created that will be fully subject to politics, and science by definition must be independent. The adoption of these amendments and additions may not be possible until 1 October 2012. And in the presentation of Mr Reiner, we heard that Croatia was not even invited to the sciences of Europe. But even more bizarrely, the Science Strategy has not been adopted, and we have heard here and we have witnessed that neither the Croatian Science Foundation Report nor the Law on Higher Education has been passed, and we are bringing amendments and additions to this law, which is certainly not good. And also everything that has been spent so far through the Ministry of Science will now be transferred to the foundation. In this context, the foundation may have more resources but will not be able to use them independently or by project, but by political order. Now that knowledge-based flossula society, it looks like it's just a flossula. I'm one of those people who believes in a society of knowledge and opportunities to help us get out of the crisis seriously. I want to believe that like the Finns, we can have our own Committee for the future and with persistent work and diligence come out of the crisis. I'm sorry that the amendments and additions to this law don't go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12354	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miroslav Tudjman and his debate for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12355	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me repeat here some remarks that have already been made and some that have been made at the University of Zagreb so that they are not just mine. I will remind the Croatian Foundation for Science that it is well founded to support large-scale and excellent projects. With not only the consolidation of the internal evaluation of projects on the national plan but also integration into the European scientific space. The Croatian Foundation for Science was supposed to be a pandan of European Science founding, i.e. what should be the science of Europe as Academyman Reiner said was not even invited. What is not said, which should point out that the Croatian Foundation for Science will be able to be accepted in those bodies if it is independent of the state or the executive authority and if it is not tried, it will be placed under government supervision. What is happening in the draft of this law, as we have already heard, is that the Government will appoint a board of directors, i.e. bodies and all acts, i.e. key acts, the first three key acts will be adopted by the Government and not by the more normal and logical parliament if the Foundation submits a report to the Parliament. On the other hand, the fact is that in these new circumstances, which are proposed as the foundation's tasks, it will not be able to provide a system of bases for a number of projects from all areas. Especially from an area where it is not desirable to have large mega-projects i.e. for smaller projects that allow greater initiative and creativity, i.e. to be more precise in the fields of humanistic science. Today, for humanistic sciences these years, figures range from 6% to 8% for science. With these provisions of this foundation, it seems to be even less. That is why such a funding system should be provided for a number of projects, I think of these small ones, under the quotes of "small" projects in social and humanistic sciences. Such a funding policy for projects that are implemented only for projects of this large project or mega-projects can come into a situation where two thirds of scientists are left out by these indicators, so that we will come up with a paradoxical situation and we tend to have two thirds of scientists simply not productive. Which is exactly the opposite of the data that has been presented not by financial indicators how science is funded in us but by the productivity of scientists that we are better at this indicator than the European average. What's the point of this whole thing, and what do we have to take care of? There is a difference between European priorities and national priorities in science funding. These two criteria overlap, but they don't match. The existing law as it stands in the provisions of the law and as the minister today has said, I quote: "It prefers the integration of the scientific system into the European Research Area.", Article 6 of the law. This could have been the priority of the law so far, i.e. the foundation so far, because the Ministry of Science financed all other projects. The intensity that the Croatian Foundation Institute is financing all projects in the future means that we need to amend existing provisions, this provision of this law simply because these small projects will fall out of it. What's gonna happen? If we follow only this existing existing logic which was the priority of the foundation because it had a specific role because the Ministry of Science funded everything else can simply happen to us to become a colony, in scientific terms, powerful states and multinational companies. It may occur to us that young experts and scientists simply turn around and go to large foreign research centres. Unlike national priorities in science planning, both social and humanistic sciences are as important as simply the problems we are facing today from global problems, global markets, global communication, global crises, international integration, regardless of which positions we look at them legally, politically, economically as well as if you want in another sense for the survival of democracy, democratic models in international integration, protection... etc. cannot be solved only at the level of technical, natural, medical sciences, or only with those sciences without humanistic sciences, or can only be solved multidisciplinaryly and transdisciplinaryly. The key is a clear matter of strategy, and the minister said today that there is no strategy for scientific development, and then he did not conclude that we should define that strategy first but said that we should bring new laws by summer, and then we will only adapt the strategy, and the whole amendment of this law again to what we discussed this morning to ensure that our people, people of trust, come to key places. If it is an objection to Academyman Kostovic that he himself named people on boards that he was doing it wrong, then he simply needed to be resolved because he was doing the wrong job, obviously it is not. Also, the the thesis that the foundation did not provide additional funds is quite problematic, because the problem is in something else that will not solve this law or other law. Issuing if you are looking for the science that Croatia singles out, and I agree with those that are too little resources, but if you are looking at the average of these funds are 50% of what other countries are similar to the size of science, however other 50% comes from the economy. And we are in such a situation that the key positions are held by multinational companies, large banks and all others who have moved their research centres out of Croatia and therefore do not need to do so in Croatia or engage Croatian scientists and researchers, and small businessmen or medium-sized enterprises are too weak and not stimulated to allocate resources for science and it seems to me that this is the key to the problem. Therefore, it should, in conclusion, be warned that what the EU expects us to pass such a Science Act that does not doubt that it is an etatisation or under policy control, introduce provisions that lead to scientific policy taking according to national priorities and European priorities, not just according to European priorities and criteria. On the other hand, I would especially like to stress concern for humanistic and social sciences here because they are not subject to the same evaluation criteria as natural sciences. The basic criteria of today's evaluation are publication in international magazines, inclusion in these databases, but all those familiar with this problem know that these criteria are simply not adequate when it comes to humanistic and social sciences in the same way as when it comes to natural, technical, medical sciences. This does not mean that we do not need to respect and seek excellence in these criteria, but we must not take the same criteria as all of these sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12356	Thank you, Your Honor. The word has a respected representative, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12357	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, here's what I've been saying for six months now. I've been saying this House's call. We're not doing anything else but with little exceptions. We've been changing the laws we've passed over the past few years that we've been trying to do together with the current minister, and the former president of the National Council for the fight against corruption that we've been trying to make laws and improving the old ones in a way that we avoid politicising and the influence of politics where it can't be or should not be, and it should be the same way that we increase transparency to increase democratic standards. We systematically amend these laws, change everything we have done in a way that we are actually destroying and that, with all possible social areas of public action wherever there is, we are actually introducing further politicisation and policy impact from the state administration system of the HRT Law that I am not counting any further. And if I had a shred of doubt as to why this law was the real reason for amending and supplementing the law, if I had had a shred of doubt as I was reading that amendment and supplementation and while I was listening to the debate of my colleagues, Mr. Minister, you completely removed him from his reasoning here at the Assembly speaker. Maybe something came up that you didn't want, maybe like in the Forest of Strybor, one of them gets something, but here it is. So when did you say these words to us about scientific committees, you who are so much for them and you know what they are appointed? So who named them? They were named by one man, Kostovic named them all. That's where you removed that speck of doubt that this law was actually passed just to move the academic Kostovic and the board of directors who may not be of taste to you and to the taste of this government. And why didn't you, I read the provision of an existing and valid law, and you could really in democratic states, it's a custom to respect laws that are in force, and even if you're thinking of changing them one day. Until you change them, you must respect the laws of the Croatian state. Because it's not a revolution when a political option is changed at the head of a country, it's not a revolution, so we're gonna end it and kill it all. No, we're going to implement these laws, we're going to change them if that's what the political second option wants, if it works in a democratic procedure. So, I read the existing law that says, talks about the tasks of scientific committees and says that members of the scientific committees are appointed by a special decision based on a public tender. Members of scientific committees must be leading scientists with experience, etc., etc. So I ask you if Academyman Kostovic, as chairman of the board of directors, accidentally acted against the provisions of this law why you did not ask according to the existing law for its resolution. No, but you're proposing an amendment to the law that changes 16 of 21 articles, but I would say that these others may not be so important because it's the preamble from one article to another mainly the same content. In addition to removing the scientific committees entirely, except by strengthening the political influence on the foundation, so first of all, that you had to amend the provisions on the board of directors simply so that you could change the members and presidents of the board of directors, so now you say he doesn't have eight members but has seven members, a big deal. And so far, these members, these 7 members were elected in the Parliament on a proposal from the Government, but from exactly the proposal according to the established scientific fields of action, so on the proposal of public scientific institutes there were 4 members, 2 members on the proposal of the rectorial assembly, 1 on the proposal of the HAZU, 1 National Council on Scientific Area and 1 Croatian Association of Employers. So it couldn't have happened that the proposals in a bunch of proposals were being submitted so then the government proposed seven members, could do anything from the scientific research institutes, could do anything from the academy. So it was precisely known on the proposal to whom many board members go so that the entire scientific public would actually be represented on that board of directors. The government may do so now, but maybe the government won't. We have some recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent developments by the government, where the ad hoc proposals were made by some international institutions, and that didn't go very well. The second politicisation where the foundation has adopted the statutes on its own and its acts so far, but now to adopt the statutes, the internal structure rule, the regulation on the management of the results of scientific projects, etc., in order to bring all this to pass, will have to be preceded by the blessing of the minister. It may be logical and so it is common here that for those foundations or institutions that are ever established by law and which are elected by the Croatian Parliament, therefore their statutes also come for confirmation in the Croatian Parliament, but not that they are given consent by the minister and not only by the statutes but also by several other sublegal acts. I notice that, I don't know what the reason, maybe there's some kind of smart, I haven't figured it out, not only this law, but in a few laws, the mandates are extended to five years, so the mandate of this board of directors and executive directors isn't four years as it's common that we have mandates, but here they are now increasing to five years. So the scientific committees are being abolished. In accordance with the article proposed in Article 3a, the expert says the evaluation process is now carried out by objective, relevant, scientific and professional review. Who's going to make these relevant and objective reviews do not know now, we have no idea. They'll seem, who and how they'll do it we don't know. So far, the law provided for them to do so in the tasks of scientific committees that we have seen have had one transparent choice. Of course, if he wasn't respectful, he should have sanctioned it. How it's gonna be from now on, we don't know that. One more thing, for reasons, and I also don't know what the reason is, maybe we'll hear it, in terms of resolving board members, so I guess the president is also because he's one of the members and president of the board of directors, so I guess that applies to him. Therefore, the reason for the resolution is a personal requirement, if it does not carry out a conscientious duty, if it does not participate in the work at sessions or otherwise does not fulfil the obligations, if it is established that it has personal or business interests which are contrary to the interests of the foundation, so if there is a conflict of interest, but there is something that remains in the existing law, which is if it damages the reputation of the trust. Therefore, there is a reason for the discharge of the Executive Director, for the resolution of members of the Management Board and of the President does not exist. I remind you that right now in the parliamentary procedure, you have referred us to the President of the National Council for Science, where you have cited his resolution precisely that he has damaged the reputation of the National Council because it exists there, because the indictment has been filed. So I don't know if the members of the board of directors that you're about to replace are going to be replaced because you've passed a new law that's worth it, and now for these future members, let's say for someone, let's say they've been charged or otherwise damaged by the reputation of the foundation by any other way, you won't be able to resolve it because from this bill you dropped that reason for the resolution. Here are the transitional and final provisions, of course, everything. Within 45 days, the Management Board will be elected, the Statute will be passed, the Management Board will be elected, within 30 days the Management Board will elect the Executive Director and we will all be happy, or you will be happy, you will have a new board of directors, new president, new Executive Director, Kostovic will no longer be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12358	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Dear Representative Željko Reiner has one replica on your exhibit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12359	The Honorable representative Lovrin mentioned something that Mr. Minister probably said with a slip, but I think it's important to make it clear to all the uninformed. He probably said by mistake that one person appointed all committees, scientific committees. It is necessary to make clear how the committees were appointed. There are international, transparent, public tender and clearly defined criteria, an invitation to tender that everyone who wants to report to the competition. In the first competition, there were not enough people, and then twice again the Management Board called for a public repeat public tender until there were enough candidates for those posts and then the Management Board was published on the basis of résumés, scientific achievements, scientific works, etc. He chose those members of the scientific committees. Some then stepped down for personal reasons and again, for the fifth time a public invitation was made for the election and appointment of members who were still repeated twice before the same very transparent way was replaced by those who resolved the membership in their own way. There is, therefore, no point in saying that one person has personally appointed all these desert people, members of scientific committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12360	Thank you, Your Honor. And another response to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12361	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Reiner, Mr. Secretary didn't get confused. Mr. Secretary said with a dose of bile and anger, you don't know who named all those scientific committees. It was named one man, it was Kostovic. And I'm, I'm asking the minister why he didn't pass the legal procedure to resolve him if he didn't comply with the law. So now we see why? Because he couldn't run the legal procedure because it would prove that what he's saying isn't true. But that's his impression because he doesn't like the gentleman, the academic Kostovic, as chairman of the board of directors. He may not like the members of these scientific committees, so he needs to change them somehow. How's he gonna change them? They will be abolished, the amendments to the law will abolish scientific committees, and Kostovic will be replaced because he will say that the Management Board has no more seven members, but has 8 members and my God needs to appoint a new Management Board. So that's the reason. We were not confused, but we couldn't implement it, the minister couldn't carry out the legal procedure because in the determination of the facts in the procedure it would show that the claim was not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12362	Thank you very much. The following has been registered for discussion by the respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12363	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd say by now Thursday, strategically well that the less public participates in this debate, although the topic is only, I'll just say the Science Foundation. It is debated about science, and I believe that it, that we are obliged to devote a lot more time and much more public relations, conversations with the public, especially the one with very short deadlines of clarity, has been asked to make its remarks to this law, remarks that the motionor has largely not accepted, so it is left that we MPs try to be their voice and in some way comment on this bill. I won't be bored, maybe I'll get on with others, but I'll repeat the arguments I make every time there's a similar style of law in front of this House of Representatives. Therefore, only an emergency law can be passed when the defence interests and other particularly justified state reasons so require, i.e. in order to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. In any event other than those of harmonisation laws with the European Union, the laws are adopted in two readings. So it is quite an incredible ease for the government's proponent to, despite all our efforts and to warn them that they are violating the Rules of Procedure they are still doing it with a smile and I will tell you what it looks like and in the light of this law. He says that the proposed law needs to be adopted by emergency procedure to speed up the harmonisation of the Croatian system of science and higher education with the European Research Area and the European space of higher education. If it were true that this law would bring us into line with the European Research Area, if that were true, it is still no reason for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure. And that's why I beg and appeal again and I think it would be worth not underestimating this House because we all have something to say about the laws that are in the procedure and much more and better we can talk about it and give our proposals and you reject them, consider them inadmissible. But at least give us a chance to help make these texts better. The other part of this law is also one non-chalant of the promoters that we constantly notice and feel. In this case, this is found in Article 21 of this same proposal. This law shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal. I said the other day. The democratic reach is for all citizens of this country, for all those to whom the laws apply to leave time to get acquainted with the content of the law. The basic rule is that eight days before the law enters into force, the whole public gets to know the content of the law, and here I see absolutely no reason to deny anyone the eight-day deadline. We are also reading the opinion of this same government which sent this law into the emergency procedure, and this is the Annual Report of this same Croatian Science Foundation for 2011, and it is said in short that I am not saying everything: "It is proposed to the Parliament to accept the report, it is said that because of the transfer of funds from earlier years, the Foundation has 69 million 478 thousand and 100 kuna and that another budget for 2012 is added 10 million kuna to the Foundation for the financing of its activities." So, when you read this even though there is some indication of the preparation of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, you will not find what many have already said, which is the essence of this proposal. Let's change the bodies that run the foundation because we're not happy with the people I'm not going to tell about the names they've been doing so far. So certain finances exist in this year as well. But what no one has said is what these funds are going to be on, so we're talking about 79 million kunas this year. It's only when you read all of what the promoter said here that you'll see that he put together what the Science Foundation was doing that financed something like an independent body, but also what was financed by the Ministry of Science. And then you come to the fact that not that there will be enough of these 70 million but that according to the needs of science, I will speak in general, there will be 300 million kunas missing to finance what has been financed so far through trust and through or through the Ministry of Science, Education or Education and Sports. I am also familiar with the fact that all and the scientific institutes and universities have been given the opportunity to show themselves about this law, of course within very short periods, and that their observations are largely not accepted. And they were obvious about the fact that you are proposing this law by emergency procedure, that we too must pass this law in a few days, that we lose sight of everything that is the essence of the law, and that will prove to be a problem in the very near future. If I'm not talking about the fact that the scientific recruits you're putting into the context of the projects you're going to finance within three years, you have to be aware that in those three years, these scientific money will not achieve the basic purpose for which they participate in the projects to acquire academic titles and that very often you will be in trouble that the projects financed from this foundation will take you three years, but that in three years, even especially the talented ones do not succeed after graduation come and defend your doctorate. So, to get to the doctorate and defend him, and in very successful ones, it took mostly four years. Now, the particular question of what my colleagues have been saying is there's no need to repeat, that it's not really the intensity of this law to make anything better in our science. I believe that science didn't even deserve an emergency procedure, and that it deserved the debate and the time that should be devoted because everyone's mouth is full of praise about how much science means to us, and then in a super-fast procedure we decided to change the trust in an emergency procedure not to say everything that has been done so far through this foundation is made and funded and we would argue that a new group and, unfortunately, here, I would not want to offend anyone by saying what I am going to say to an officer to evaluate what scientists have done so far from reputation and not only domestic but also foreign experts. And instead of all that has been good so far to assess the projects that this science, i.e. the foundation, we are now regulating this in a way that the Management Board is setting up a foundation office, I am talking about Article 9, for the sake of organisation, the implementation of evaluation procedures, the preparation of proposals to the Management Board of Projects for the financing and management of administrative professions, etc. At the same time, it shows how hasty it was for you to even manage the legal terminology that would be necessary for the amendments to this law, so in Article 11(2), you write that the trust is managed by an executive director who makes a full - time working relationship. It's not a legal term, it's not a term from our working legislation, not from the Civil Service Act or the Public Service Act. So it would at least be good if you could get your termologically in line with the laws that are in force because the working relationship on full-time so far does not exist in our legislation. And what has already been said other than the transitional and final provisions, I would only refer to Article 19(2). - You said everything here. What was the foundation's business and what was, in some ways, the competence of the Unity Fund with the help of knowledge, which was in the ministry's system is now joined into an unbiased mass. Instead of 370 they will have 70 million kunas and you will continue to tell us that this will help Croatian science. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we didn't get anything from this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12364	Thank you very much. At your presentation, Honorable Representative Željko Reiner has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12365	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable representative Mlakar mentioned and referred to a report of the Foundation which, of course, will be completely pointlessly post-festum debated or we will not discuss, so I would just like to clarify the same thing that has been said here, not by an esteemed representative, but by Mr. Minister, which is one question. Do you know how much money that costs? So now I'm gonna tell you how much money it costs. The Foundation paid for foreign review, foreign reviewers, so world-class experts for reviewing the scientific project, which should be thoroughly analysed, evaluated etc., 50 euros. 50 euros were given to top foreign scientists to evaluate this. If that's a lot, then that shows our relationship to science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12366	Thank you, too. It was a replica of the respected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. And now for 10 minutes, he's having a debate with Honorable Representative Dinko Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12367	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs. The Croatian Foundation for Science was established by the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development called the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia in December 2001. Since the beginning of the foundation work intensively on programmes that cover science and higher education systems so that a number of projects are launched that cover older and younger scientists, which is realised through programs senior,... guest and returner. After the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports established the Unity Fund with the help of knowledge for part of these programmes, the Foundation no longer launched new competitions to avoid overlapping the programme objectives with which this fund was established with the Foundation programmes. Also, the foundation supported young scientists and a partnership with the economy with its programmes. The large programme in the work of the foundation stems from... continued funding from the state budget so that the existing funds of the foundation did not finance projects according to strategic priorities but supported a wide range of basic and applied research through various tenders. In addition to these difficulties over the past years, the Foundation has created organisational and humane assumptions for the achievement of European standards in the evaluation, monitoring and financing of research projects and scientists. From draft to end of 2011 the Fund financed 91 projects of a scientific technology project. So over 57 million kunas were invested in the fund's activity. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as project holder provided more than 39 million kuna, which is 65% of the total value needed for the implementation of the project while the remaining funds were provided by international research institutions 8.7 million kuna, private sector 5.5 million kuna and public research institutions in the Republic of Croatia 6.1 million kuna. For the Croatian Foundation for Science programmes in 2012 10 million kunas are envisaged which will be difficult to realise since no body selection procedure has yet been implemented, the tender procedure so that it is possible that these funds are not used during this year. There's no way we can take away the impression that this cosmetic change is exclusively related to the introduction of a politically similar and not capable. The proposal for these amendments to the law of the Croatian Foundation for Science will not be an independent institution although any new draft law should be a step forward and not backwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12368	Thank you, Your Honor. Next for discussion, Vice-President Zeljko Reiner signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12369	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So let me maybe just say something very briefly that hasn't been said yet that we're not over-exploiting the time of all of us here. The fact is, one law is passed by an urgent procedure against our own Rules of Procedure because it is neither defence issues nor something that would cause major problems in the economy. The fact that the law will be passed despite the fact that the Academic Community has made a very clear statement against it. The University of Zagreb, 24 directors of all public institutes, also declared themselves. Therefore, most of those who have debated here have pleaded against, however, that law will nevertheless be passed. I would just like to make it very clear that, with the following report from the Foundation adopted by the Foundation, it has over the past period created certain organisational and human resources assumptions for the achievement of European standards in the evaluation, monitoring, financing of research projects and scientists. However, this is exactly the role of the academic community through the compulsory participation of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the Rectoral Assembly of the University, the public institutes in proposing board members, in fact, is now completely unnecessaryly abolished even though it is said by those who, of course, defended that they can now be members. So far they have to be members, now they can propose and the government can choose or not from one of these institutions or from two of these institutions, all of them, etc. This, of course, creates a complete dependence on a policy that is not good. The scientific committees which were the main guarantee of an independent system of evaluation are unnecessarily abolished, of course, some who defended it said so they could be formed. No one says they don't have to form, so it's about a similar parallel as if we have some law that says laws can be discussed in the Parliament, so now some will argue, some won't, maybe none will, etc. As soon as he says I can, it doesn't mean anything, when it's a commitment then of course they have to do it. The second thing is also important that these scientific committees that I am emphasising are chosen through several transparent international competitions, which were the main guarantee of the independent evaluation of the foundation projects, and by clear criteria of excellence, are now actually disappearing and it is not known how projects will be evaluated. Whether they will be valued by some clerks, whether they will be valued by similar, chosen narrow circle of scientists or not. What is also bad, although the introduction mentions the subject of intellectual property since paragraph 2 is analyzed. Article 16 of the current law de facto gives up the development of this very important and important issue of regulating the right to exploit scientific and technological results, the entire patenting system in the use of intellectual property-based rights so that it is something that is also certainly not good. This introduction of an executive director who is employed for 4 years is, of course, awkwardly legally speaking because it has nothing to do with our legal regulation on working relations but this executive director of the foundation and the entire segment of administrative staff who, of course, should be first highly professional and secondly independent of political changes, they become because they are employed at 4 years directly dependent on a political option that will be run by a resolution ministry at any time by any political option, but it is not good anyway. What's also not good is that one incredible speed. I have already mentioned completely unwarranted in the Rules of Procedure an unfounded haste procedure but which aims to remove the current administrative bodies of the foundation as it really wanted to do so because of something very quickly needed, it is interesting how in the past 4 months the current leadership of the foundation has not been engaged at all, but it has simply come to this House with a bill of law which is naturally unfortunate and it is very likely that it will have to be changed recently. By reducing total separation into science, by including the emphasis of government programmes, which is the Unity Fund with the help of knowledge, without any additional funding, especially with unclear criteria in proposing board members, by removing the body of the trust provided by an independent system of evaluation Croatia is, for example, very clearly moving away and not approaching as some have tried to convince us, it is moving away from the negotiating positions and the proposed amendments to the law clearly endanger the independence of the work of the foundation is being ruralized and this is contrary to the obligations of the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 25 and all of this is clearly done with a clear intention. However, this will certainly compromise the membership of a trust in relevant European associations such as Science Europe. And that should be said very clearly, so it is a detachment, not a approximation to what Europe has put as a criterion. The acquisition of the foundation as it has been so far as an independent and independent institution in the Croatian research system is in complete contrast to the practices of European foundations and institutions that finance research and thus will certainly be significantly disrupted and slowed by the inclusion of the Croatian research system in the European scientific space. Therefore, I think you should think very carefully about whether or not you really insist on a hasty procedure first, and secondly on the changes that this law inauguration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12370	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I ask the Minister of Science, Education and Sports of the Honorable Željko Jovanovic to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12371	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Thank you all for contributing to the debate on the law that was before you. Unfortunately, I haven't heard a single solid proposal that should change the law that is before you. However, everything that has been said today in this debate shows that we are right about such a proposal, because if there are no assumptions for the better work of the foundation in 8 years, that it becomes part of the European Research Area, then something needed to be changed and done by an urgent procedure. That's why these changes are ahead of you. I call for you to vote for them on Friday, and I am convinced that you will soon see to it that these changes will bring progress in Croatian science, unlike the eight-year stagnation we witnessed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12372	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12373	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, PZ No. 113. The debate is closed. The proposer accepted the amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes, 32 against and 3 abstentions have been passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12374	We are now going to work on the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, first reading, PZ No. 110 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received reports from those working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zeljko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. In front of you is a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees. The law on academic and professional names and academic degrees was adopted in 2007 in order to regulate the system of academic and professional names introduced by the implementation of the Bologna process. Today, the text in front of you, which goes in two readings, is aimed at the basic correction of injustice towards the part of the people who completed education in the pre-Bolon process. The debate lasted a month. On the basis of the debate, no proposal has been received on the Ministry's website, except for one section concerning doctoral studies and which is included in the text. Meanwhile, after the draft proposal was presented at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there was also a meeting of the rector's assembly at which we further presented this law and where we agreed with the Rector's Assembly on one amendment and remarks concerning the amendment and addition of the law and on the item with which the professional name obtained through the completion of the postgraduate professional study at the university or higher school is equalized with the academic title university specialist additionally debated and found a better quality solution. Otherwise, in the law itself, I will highlight three basic changes that we are trying to correct, therefore, against those who have completed pre-bolon studies. First, persons who had completed a pre-bolon professional study of 4 years and had acquired high professional training under the current law could have used the sole professional name of the professional first-rater. Such persons have been deprived of their rights in relation to those who have completed a pre-bolon university study of 4 years and have acquired high professional training, which can use the academic name master of the profession. It is therefore proposed to allow such persons to use the professional title professional specialist to an appropriate second level of higher education. To be clear, I'll give you an example. So the person who graduated from the American College of Management and Technology in Dubrovnik in 2005 completed a four-year professional undergraduate study is equal to the name professional first grader. If that person had completed a four-year university degree study, he would have been equal with the name Master of Prof. Therefore, since she had completed a professional study, she was equated with the first level of Bologna studies, and if she had completed a university study, she would have been equated with the second level of Bologna studies. This is unwarranted discrimination, against the constitution and the proposed change of law we ensure that all Croatian citizens have the right to an equivalent and consistent equalisation of old and new names. Another example that has actually encouraged all these changes from that part of the academic community we have received the most remarks, refers to four years of professional study programmes for teachers. People who have completed former postgraduate, professional or artistic studies performed at higher schools or high schools today are equally qualified with the name professional specialist. If those same studies had been completed at the university, they would have been called university specialists. Both studies were equal, the Master of Professional Studies and therefore it is necessary to provide them with equal rights. These changes are the most related to the High School of Police, the High School of Security and the international graduate business school. Thirdly, as a separate category of indetermination in the law adopted in 2007, studies were shown which are set up according to old provisions, which are no longer carried out in the Republic of Croatia because they do not have a legal follower or are being carried out but are not the same species. Today, the applicable law does not regulate how to evaluate such acquired names. For such cases in the text that we propose, we suggest that the decision be left to the legal follower with the previously obtained and binding opinion of the National Council for Higher Education. So after obtaining the opinion of the National Higher Education Council, the university will decide how to act in these cases. Here's this example I mentioned for teachers. So in the Republic of Croatia during the 1990s, professional teaching studies were conducted at higher schools and higher schools. These studies enabled individuals to access the same jobs as equivalent university studies. Such studies for teachers in the Republic of Croatia are no longer carried out, but turned into university studies without any significant change in the content of education. Currently applicable provisions of the Law are discriminated against by persons who have completed such types of studies because they are granted lower rights than those who are now completing studies, which are fully equivalent in their content. The proposed legislative amendment shall ensure that, in the event of a study no longer carried out, a special academic procedure is established to determine the equalisation of the name. And fourthly, it's the only remark that came at legal time in a public debate from the academic community. It regulates the completion of the PhD of science, today's valid provisions with the name of the doctor also indicate the scientific field, field and branches. Thus, the practice has proved to be inconsistencies with good European practices and limiting access to the labour market in Croatia and abroad. The academic community has asked the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to shorten this provision. An example of what it is. The existing legal framework provides for the indication of the area, fields and branches in the name of the doctor of science. This level of specialization in titles is contrary to the reality of modern scientific work which is increasingly interdisciplinary. In addition, such specificity in titles is also a problem in the exercise of labour market rights, so according to the existing law, it assumes that the doctors of science do not have doctors of science competences outside the field, fields, branches that are listed to them at a diploma which makes their employment difficult within academic jobs but also beyond them. The ministry therefore also proposes to respect the academic community's proposal and to exclude the obligation to guide the scientific field, but to give autonomy to universities to define fields alongside diplomats if that is the case. So let me get this straight. All of these amendments and additions to the legal text are proposed with a view to protecting acquired rights of persons who completed the study in accordance with previously applicable regulations and to enabling the wider scientific action of doctors of science as well as empowering their equality on the labour market. For this reason, we propose to the Parliament that this law be adopted in two readings in a way that will be the most qualitative in the cause I have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12376	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12377	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Unfortunately, we all opened one of Pandora's boxes together when we started equating old names with new names. Probably, it's always hard to talk about the past. Of course, and why, then, did we do the smartest thing? No, the fact is that no country has ever done the equivalence of professional and university names. So I guess if we had acted smarter then, we wouldn't be in these problems today, and this law wouldn't have to be changed. But the fact is that some people really have real problems about it. I am very glad that the promoter has accepted the proposals of the academic community, and even more so when I hear that between the first and second readings, they will actually take into account and consider what the Rector's Assembly has suggested, because the Rector's Assembly has actually gone to a proposal to correct some of the injustices that have caused problems for people in everyday life, although objectively it was not really supposed to cause problems because it's important of course what people have acquired, and not perhaps what their diploma says. And in our small community, you always know very well who finished a few schools and whether that school is adequate. We just often pretend we don't know or want to pretend we don't know, etc. So the real problems I think aren't supposed to be for those people. However, some of them were obviously having problems, and then a problem was created. And here we are in the situation we're in. It's a relatively small number of people. Of course, when someone has a problem of their own, then his problem is the biggest and the only problem, but objectively, it's a small number of people. Is the best solution going to be to keep the situation as it is, because we have precedents to say so when we've kept the situation? We have masters of science who no longer exist. So we don't have them anymore. But yet they exist, they are masters of science, no one has translated them into something I don't know half-doctors of science or I don't know what they don't already know. Therefore, they are still masters of science. They don't mind. In fact, they're appreciated, they're valued by it. So maybe one of the solutions, I'm convinced that even the promoter will think about it that maybe this can stay in such a way that some consensus can be reached that these people can, of course, do the jobs that they've done before, or that they should do. But in any case, the rest of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees actually means simply trying to comply with what caused the problems of the age-old years ago these problems are reduced to a minimum. Well, that's how I'm experiencing it, and I hope that during this period until the second reading, this issue will be resolved so that we can all accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12378	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party Igor Coleman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12379	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear fellow MPs, fellow MPs, respected Mr. Minister, and respected assistant ministers. So we heard actually already two parallel problems we have in some way in Croatia in the system of higher education. When it comes to the names of one is the transition from Prebolonjski, let's call it conditionally a Bologna system which then, therefore, led to the need to align the name or qualifications or title however we will say it acquired in pre-bolonic time with the one acquired afterwards. And the other problem is actually these two parallel systems of professional and university studies. What we at the HNS Club and I want to say in the beginning absolutely support is the legislator's intention in this case to introduce order, especially to introduce order in a way that really people are not suspended and that those who have completed any form of higher education really and in their academic name have a visible level of education and which qualifications they have acquired. So one of the amendments provided for in this law is that the field of scientific action of the doctor of science is not limited to the branch but that, with the academic degree of the doctorate of science, only the scientific field and the possible field are listed. We absolutely agree with that. The reason is that it will facilitate access to the labour market and, of course, it is particularly commendable and we really hope that it will. And it's also certain that this kind of labelling then is more and more in line with the modern trends in science that are increasingly going multidisciplinaryly, interdisciplinaryally. So it's actually hard in many cases and here to be completely accurate, and without people then actually restricting what they really acquired as an education or as a scientific level. The second amendment provides that persons who have completed a 4-year professional under the applicable rules have the right to use the current name for a high professional preparation, i.e. a professional specialist. That's absolutely okay. So it's the same thing where discrimination is avoided actually because then people who have completed their undergraduate studies four years in university studies have in some way more right at this point than those who have finished in the system of higher schools or universities. The third amendment provides that persons who have completed former post-graduate or artistic studies conducted at universities or high schools have the right to use the term university specialist. And around this point, it looks like we've all actually agreed to disagree. So there really needs to fit a little bit on the ball. The logic, for us in the HNS, is very simple here. Not something that wasn't a university study was carrying with it the academic name of a university specialist. And that seems to be the fundamental logic that we should respect. What is important and I will reiterate this is that it is absolutely necessary for these changes and additions to the second reading to create a situation that no one will really be denied, where no one will be discriminated against and where no one will really be taken away from the education they have acquired regardless of the framework that the institution has acquired. But this proposal therefore calls the university specialist to be used in cases where the study is not completed at the university seems totally unacceptable to us. So we're asking you and we're glad that you're already in some way and the Honorable Mr. Minister has already said, so by the second reading, we'll find a better solution. It must meet two criteria. So no one should be discriminated against or damaged, and what was not a university study can be a university specialist. So we're going to have to be more creative here without cutting people off. And just finally not to take up your time at this late hour I'm going to say a sentence that I said on the board and that is actually the taste of all this. The university is a university, and the university is conditionally said not to be a university. This does not speak well of either one or the other, but it is certainly a fact to be respected in this context of these amendments and additions. And I really hope that in the second reading then we will have a proposal that we can agree on unanimously in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12380	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Branko Vukšić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12381	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers and associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The biggest opposition to amendments and the addition of the law on academic and professional names and academic degrees is the equalisation of professional specialist and university specialist in university specialist. This is actually equalising calling and titles based on education in different institutions. I completely agree with a colleague who used to speak. Even with a different quality somewhere. So, the person who completed the professional study is a specialist, the person who graduated from university is a university specialist. Pure logic. It's about studies of different concepts, I've been lucky or unhappy and I've attended university and this professional study, different programs with different literature, different purposes and different types of education. But no one, at least we Croatian Labourists, thinks it's different worse. It's just different, it's not the same. And different, you'll admit, he can't and must not be named by the same name if it's different. It is important to acquire knowledge and acquired skills, the use of these skills in practice, and it is not the name itself that matters. The degree should be different from the title or title. Yes, it should be done in order, but there is no need to be hasty and I fully agree with Ms. Vesna Pusic, who did not support this bill with full justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12382	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ministers with their associates. Well, there's a lot that's already been said about this, and I only see this law as managing the shortcomings of the past law. So, the inequality that we have, which my colleagues have also seen between the categories of students who graduated before the law and those they graduated after. Therefore, those who graduated before the law, i.e. whose studies did not comply with the existing law, i.e. the existing standards imposed by the Bologna process, have been abolished. What is our task, and I believe it is also the task of this ministry, is simply to harmonize it, to coordinate as fellow Coleman has mentioned with the intensities that no one will be denied but therefore allow everyone under equal conditions to translate their titles acquired, i.e. academic degrees acquired before the Bologna process, to translate so as to make it conditionally possible to say so into these present ones. According to the current provisions of the person who has acquired a high level of professional equipment, therefore completed by a 4-year programme, they are equated with an expert first-rate professional, or what is called baccalar. So, the professional first-rate, or they've been cut off. Therefore, they have acquired high professional equipment, and are equated with the first degree of high professional training if we speak in the Bologna process. What the paradox is really about this is that although they are thus translating their calling, that is, their academic degree to the first degree of Bologna, they retain acquired rights that belong to the second degree. So, if we're talking, I don't know about a professor who translates his title into a first-grader, he retains his right to the higher degree. So I'm just saying this arbitrarily, maybe you shouldn't take it, this might not be the best example. I welcome the fact that a high professional preparation should be allowed to use the name professional specialist and it would, by some logic, be a professional cook who belongs to them under the law, so if we speak now in the Bologna process. However, I am also as glad as here's my colleagues before me have mentioned it so that this is the first reading of the law because obviously there will need to iron out some more things. In fact, the question remains, and since here are my colleagues to discuss and after me I would not owe it to them, to professions, or degrees that no longer exist. So, there are no longer programmes that educate on these plans to say, or which students no longer acquire these titles after the completion of those programmes. I'm just saying, for example. graduate teacher, graduate criminalist, etc., etc. So that's where we need to find a solution. I'm glad that part of the initiative was left at the university, so to listen and respect the autonomy of the university. So not only is it respected when it comes to finance but it's really a university that's asked, and when it's decided like this, I'd say root questions because this is one of those. And I welcome, of course, the finalization of professional and academic names from the bologna, I think there's been a lot of confusion. Here I am honestly speaking until I became a member of the Parliament, or representative in the Assembly, I did not know exactly how my title was written or whether it went before the names, behind the names, etc. I think my colleague Babic from HDZ and I are the only ones who have that title, so the university specialist is Union Spec. So-called So there has been a lot of confusion here, and I believe that this law is one small contribution to finally making academic terms in systems, i.e. to set clear rules and standards, and to giving new and new titles, but to translate the old into new ones. That's why here's the minister I welcome this law. So it's good that the first reading and in the first reading will have my support, and I believe that by the second reading we will find an even better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12384	Thank you. Next up for debate, Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12385	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. As a teacher on behalf of teachers and teachers on the status of teachers and teachers in the light of the present injustice of non-recognition of academic and professional names and academic degrees, I will tell the teacher whether or not you are. It's not a job. Being a teacher is a send-off. The teaching job doesn't like it, he lives. Teachers don't have a job internship, they're lucky to go to school their whole lives. Therefore, they have always been ambitious and diligent in accepting the possibility of progress in the profession by raising the level of their own education. After completing a higher school, however called the Pedagogical Academy or the School of Higher Education or the Faculty of Philosophy OUR Pedagogical Sciences became teachers, and they were offered to attend the call of a graduate teacher with an enhanced class. Of course, they accepted, themselves funded 10 to 15 thousand kunas of tuition, along with transportation, accommodation in Zagreb, Petrinja or Čakovec, while fixing and preparing work at night, not having had any privileges in the workplace, denied their own children weekends and graduated within the deadline. The graduates according to the same programme that has been produced by Bologna masters of the profession for five years today. Today they're high school high school high school seniors, and the enhanced class program is no longer mentioned. In 2004, the first teachers and teachers from the Faculty of Teachers in Zagreb were enrolled with distinguished guests of inspired speeches and champagne. It was a major advance in the profession, and it gave hope to promote the calling of teacher by vertical advancements that had been waiting for decades. In the official programme of postgraduate studies, among other things, I quote "A fully identical postgraduate study is carried out in the second year with the second year of students at the University of Ljubljana but their postgraduate study is valued as a postgraduate scientific study". In fact, at universities in Slovenia for the same undergraduate study for primary school teachers is awarded the title of professor of class education. Price of real change for teachers who mainly raised loans to forty thousand kuna without travel expenses and housing costs. Hundreds of teachers and teachers who had completed a two-year or three-year Pedagogical Academy passed over the past five years through Sava to the neighbouring country to acquire a high professional training and the name of a class teacher, thus innovating a new subtype of tourism by filling the budget for neighbours, so on. educational tourism. If I try to systematize total chaos in teacher education, it would look like this, 9 groups, A with a secondary teaching school, B higher school prepares teachers from two years of schooling at the Pedagogical Academy, C high vocational studies, teachers from 4 years of high school or teaching schools, D high-school teachers from 4 years of studies at the Faculty of Teachers, E teachers with an additional study of 2+2 with an enhanced in high school, to short, F teachers with an additional course with an enhanced course at the university, G new generation of students with 5 years of studies at teaching schools, H professors of classrooms and at the end of the course and a hundred masters of educational sciences who are 4+2 years of education at the Faculty of Education in Zagreb. A special injustice was done to these last-listed graduates of the class school who completed their postgraduate vocational studies at the Zagreb Faculty of Education. They're not recognised for name, grade, or salary allowance. I especially stress, not the biggest pay addition problem. The biggest problem is systematic degradation, non-recognition of the competences achieved, social neglect and generally accepted attitude. Little kids have little science, so there's a small pay. I believe that accepting this amendment and supplementing the law is a great opportunity for the Croatian public to show teachers that they are aware that their children spend most of their time with them in the day and they help them shape character, teach them the basic skills they need to survive in this world. They are raised to become independent, fair, confident, teach them to read, write, count, learn to look forward to success and overcome failure, teach them to tie shoes, eat diverse food, respect the needs of others and different ones, it is an opportunity to recognize their importance and value their social contribution, not by privileges, but only by recognising what they have been denied so far. Let us set new criteria for starting to adopt this bill, and these would be small children full of knowledge of great responsibility and ultimately adequate pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12386	Thank you too, colleagues. Next up for the debate, Ante Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12387	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees. It is a purely technical problem that is summarised only in several articles. Obviously, the Proposer was concerned about the constitutional principle of acquired law. And as Agents Club said in fact, we don't know if there was a country in Europe that tried to even out a professional and scientific study, so what happened to us and colleague Spoljar told us about teachers that happiness was to be a teacher, so I wanted to ask what she was doing then in the Croatian Parliament, but while she listed these 9 categories, I understood why, understandablely. But according to this bill, they want to equalize themselves in the rights and privileges of the old and the new holders of university diplomas. In the future, a post-graduate university study with the right to high professional training would be sanctioned by a university degree only with a sign of the scientific field. The paper in this proposal is to regulate the issue of obtaining the academic degree of doctor, or doctor of science and doctor and doctor of art. In the future, a professional undergraduate study, with at least four years of study, will provide the graduate with high school equipment and will be equated with the rights with the professional name professional specialist, i.e. specialist with the mandatory indication of profession. The post-graduate professional or artistic study will also be equated with the academic title of university specialist, i.e. specialist with the indication of profession. Finally, we are pleased that this tornado of unreasonable spending on the budget of this amendment and the addition of the law will not add to the budgetary resources of the Republic of Croatia, but with this Government I do not know, it is not always safe. It is possible that some will experience these changes and supplement only as a cosmetic preparation. Still, what matters most is not the name problem but in that Chinese: whether the cat is black or white, it is important to hunt the mouse. From the mere title of a graduate economist or a master of the economy, it is more important that we get real and widely educated economic experts. ... smart to know. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12388	Thank you. And we still have a report... Excuse me. Comrade Spollar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12389	Very short. It is a pleasure to be in the Parliament and to convey the thoughts of those I represent here, and I hope that all of us know it. And I am honored to be able to speak on behalf of the teacher in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12390	Thank you. And the next one signed up for Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12391	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Given this weather, the late hours allow only a few notes. As an illustration, I'd like to start with that statement that Humboldt told the students almost 200 years ago: we're not here because of you or you're here for us, we're here for science. The university's function in science has dominated for decades. To shorten this story, today the university is thought to have four main functions: science, research, training or training and what Americans say active citizenship, or what we could translate as responsible citizens, responsible members of society. If the law's intensities, this law to correct the injustices that have been brought in with these changes in the system of laws can happen to bring far deeper injustices by pushing the difference between the university and the university. So it seems purely short to me, I think it would be much simpler not to go in an attempt to equate terminology and terms because this termology and terms are different, it's going to be different, it's going to be different. People will finally differ as the universities and universities differ according to the competences that come from them and by the competences of those who work there. I think it would be much simpler if it were simply to go into the equalization of individual studies in terms of the year of studies in the degree of education so that they were said at 4.5 years of age to be this and that degree, and not to go into niveling, equalizing that term. It seems to me that this would be much more practical, more operational, because then not all those who have the need to do so equally would not have to do so, but the revaluation of their diplomas and we would have rid ourselves of a whole series of administrations, and probably if it didn't go to the expense of the state in any case would be a time and probably a material cost of interested ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12392	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Minister of Science, Education and Sports Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I thank you for your comments. I am pleased to have witnessed one point that was exclusively an expert debate, without any political rejections, so that is proof that there is a professional debate in the Assembly. I hope that there will be as many such discussions as possible and that we will bring solutions that will always be in order and interest to meet all the needs of our citizens and to correct all the injustices that have been brought at any time. I am convinced that until the second reading, we will have the most qualitative solution thanks to the discussions you had here today and all the suggestions you will make between these two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12394	I thank the minister. This is what we've exhausted the reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12395	We move to the proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, first reading, PZ No. 110. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees is hereby adopted and 1. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 7 against and 28 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12396	We have another point - (a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the National Council for Science (b) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the National Council for Science (C) Proposal for a decision to appoint a President and a member of the National Council for Science is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 11(1). Law on scientific activity and higher education. You received the proposal by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. There's no need. Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank my colleagues and colleagues. Tomorrow we continue work at 9.30 Proposal for a law on fun and special machines for the game, first reading, PZ No. 114. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-05-0.u12397	We move on to the proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the President of the National Council for Science. I am voting on a motion for a solution. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result? I find that most of the vote is 82 votes in favour, 24 against and 4 abstentions of the decision taken to resolve the president of the National Council for Science. We move to a statement of the proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the National Council for Science. I am voting on a motion for a solution. Who's in? Against? Restraint? What's the score? I find that most of the votes are 82 votes in favour, 24 against and 4 abstentions to a decision on the resolution of a member of the National Council for Science. We move to a decision on a proposal for a decision to appoint presidents and members of the National Science Council. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Who's in? Against? Restraint? What's the score? I find that most votes are 81 votes in favour, 25 against and 5 abstentions made to appoint presidents and members of the National Science Council.
