ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9194	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We're going back to work. It is on the agenda: - Proposal for a decision on the professional service of the Croatian Parliament The motion for a decision is the representation of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When making a decision, provisions for the second reading of the law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Here you go, Vice President Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9195	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs, respected fellow MPs. One standard procedure when it comes to the decision on professional service of the Croatian Parliament. The Presidency of the Croatian Parliament has established a proposal for a decision on professional service and I am in charge that it is in short lines explained to you representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament has been determined that the Croatian Parliament has a professional service to carry out professional, administrative, security, technical and other needs for the Croatian Parliament. The organisational structure of the professional service shall be determined or determined by a decision on the professional service of the Croatian Parliament which, within the meaning of Article 119. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be brought by the Croatian Parliament. The current valid decision on the professional service of the Croatian Parliament was made in 2001. That decision has not been changed until today, nor has it been completed. However, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union brings about the need for better organisational adaptation to the new requirements of parliamentary work, the legal system, international cooperation, technological progress and Parliament's communication openness towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is necessary in a different way to establish this professional service and to arrange it by decision. It is necessary to redefine the role of existing working bodies, i.e. to strengthen administrative capacities in order to comply with the needs of the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. In the process of preparing the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union, and systematic regulation of the new relationship between the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, it is also necessary to pass a law that will regulate this relationship between the Parliament and the Government. Especially related to the European question. Constitutional Republic of Croatia with the latest novel, Article 144. Such an option is defined. Namely, by provision of the Constitution of Article 144. The Croatian Parliament shall take part in a European legislative procedure in accordance with the Treaties on which the European Union is based. The Government of the Republic of Croatia reports to the Croatian Parliament on proposals for legal regulations and decisions aimed at making and deciding in the institutions of the European Union, the Croatian Parliament may draw conclusions on these proposals on the basis of which the Government operates in the institutions of the European Union. The supervision of the Croatian Parliament of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the institutions of the European Union is governed by law. The Republic of Croatia in the Council and the European Council represent Croatia in the Council and the European Council, in accordance with their constitutional powers, the Government and the President of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in accordance with the decisions provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to arrange a professional service of the Croatian Parliament that could meet the needs of the Parliament under new circumstances. This proposal for a decision in point 10 sets out this as a special proposal to set up an office for international and European affairs. That is the standard in almost all the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. The office would provide professional support to activities related to the European Union, the office would become a central place for information on European and international affairs. The office would coordinate the affairs of a permanent representative of the Parliament in the European Parliament. In addition to the above mentioned newspapers, and all in order to improve the administrative capacity of the work of the Croatian Parliament's professional service, this proposal proposes that the Public Relations Service be transformed into a way to establish two new separate units that would share, act in the Secretariat of the Assembly system, and that is the Office for Media and Civil Service. In line with the proposal of the Croatian Parliament, I would also suggest that the Parliament adopt the proposal and make a decision on the professional service of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9196	Thank you, Vice President. Does he want on behalf of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, colleague Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The issue of European affairs is probably not best covered in the general administration of the Republic of Croatia, and I think it can be freely said that this is certainly not the case in the Croatian Parliament. One of the problems, difficulties or weaknesses of the European Union is that it has very complicated decision-making mechanisms that are very difficult to cope with and which, of course, require very high professional competences and highly developed services. And of course, the question is how these services are being followed by elected officials who necessarily do not have these competences. Of course, that question or that problem can be approached in two ways. On the one hand, these professional services carry out their duties in accordance with, of course, the general interests of the organisation to be represented and to be served. But if there is no proper control and political leadership, then of course it can be a space for various forms of using these institutions, creating some kind of line of private interest, etc. And this problem, of course, faces the European Union at all levels. We are somewhat closer to the level of the European Parliament, especially to those who have been there for the last two months as observers. This, of course, is one of the great advantages of the European Union to bring the documents into line, that there must be national coordination, political coordination, etc. But of course the question is running the whole process. And this problem of the complexity of these documents and these procedures, of course, exists in each individual country, as well as in the Republic of Croatia. What our capacity to monitor these processes is, therefore, an open question. I guess they're not enough. But when it comes to the Croatian Parliament, then it can certainly be argued because very few people, therefore the structure that is not defined deals with the European Union's issues as well. And so it has happened in recent years that the European laws that have passed through the Croatian Parliament have actually been laws without some particular attention of the Croatian Parliament, which means that everything that is in these laws, in these documents was actually passed on to professional services whose competence, of course, is not confirmed. This concerns, of course, the work of the Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations, and this includes the Croatian Parliament. As you know the laws in the Croatian Parliament that were P.Z.E. The laws almost did not receive any treatment here, including those parts of those laws that had nothing to do with the European Union, and executively, the government used such laws to launch, or propose some solutions which, therefore, had no direct connection with the European Union. But as soon as the law was marked P.Z. he went through the Croatian Parliament more or less without any difficulties and that is, of course, the state and practice that must not be maintained. There are very important things in these laws. And of course the Government must have professional services and bodies that will be able to study these laws, adapt to the Croatian legal framework but this competence and this possibility must also be given to the Croatian Parliament. So the establishment of this Office for International and European Affairs proposed by this act is probably the first zero step along this path to creating a competent administrative service in this Assembly that could do the job. In the past half of the year, so how much this Assembly has worked, we have had on the Committee on European Integration several such laws and these laws are by and by the Committee, and then after that, the Croatian Parliament is actually treated as something that has been given in itself. And neither the Committee on European Affairs nor its services that de facto were able to verify, review, control, monitor what came from the Government or its bodies. And this practice, therefore, which has been in the Croatian Parliament for the past 8 years, has continued and now, and this issue becomes particularly interesting now at this stage, so when the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union and each of these documents, each of these laws will have to be considered, of course, from a professional point of view to what this service should contribute to, that is, this office that is set up. But also better organisation of the work of the Croatian Parliament, its committees, so that even among MPs who by some definition do not necessarily have to be trained in certain areas of the European Union slowly create a team that will be competent and who will be able to run such a service that will be in the Croatian Parliament and through this service of course oversee the work of the Government which is one of the fundamental tasks of the Croatian Parliament. So this is one initial step in that sense. It is, of course, the work of our committees on European laws. As you know, we will pass the Law on cooperation between the Croatian Parliament and the Government on issues of European affairs. This is our obligation under the pre-accession treaty and the basis of the Lisbon Agreement. Here we will have to accept some of the standards set in this protocol regarding the Lisbon Treaty, on the role of national parliaments. But we will also have a wide scope for developing our own solutions that individual bodies, how individual committees, how the Committee on European Affairs will monitor these laws, that is, those legislative solutions, the regulation of the European Union and what role will play in this side of the Croatian Parliament's pledum. So it's a very, very broad and very important spectrum of questions and therefore, of course, it's logical that we have approached the establishment of this office. But it's like I said a few times already zero step that we need to take. The question is, then, how will this office in the Croatian Parliament develop, which will be its competences, how many committees of the Croatian Parliament will manage to build that, apart from the Committee on European Affairs, they follow these jobs. So this is a broad area which is likely to be dealt with in part by law that we will adopt in the relations between the Croatian Parliament and the Government in monitoring European affairs. But of course also in the Rules of Procedure in which we will implement the provisions of this law. Based on all of this, it is only necessary to repeat that it is a very extensive business, that it is a very important and demanding job and therefore the Club of Representatives of the CNS will, of course, support all other amendments and additions, i.e. the new structure of the service, the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament, with special care, monitor the establishment of the Office for International and European Affairs, but, of course, the development of this office and all other competences of the European Parliament on the monitoring plan for European affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9198	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a colleague of Vice-President Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament, I would like to present a few things that we consider important at this time when a decision on the organisation of the professional service of the Assembly is proposed. In fact, each time it starts with the first step, and the decision on the Professional Service is not the first step but even the second or third step, but it must be made to form a basis in a formal sense for the establishment of a European and international office. Secondly, we should expect a soon-to-be draft law on the government's and parliament's relationship when Croatia is an EU member. Thirdly, there is an immediate need to expect an act on the systematicisation of jobs, as once said. In the Office for European and International Affairs, it will then be necessary to set up a Committee on European Affairs but the most important thing now is that people are educated both theoretically and practically in the EU for European law. In fact, when Croatia is in the EU, the parliament loses the exclusiveity that it is the only legislator in Croatia, because part of the EU rules is directly applied in Croatia and part must be developed. Secondly, I would like to say that the role of the Croatian government is stronger, as the Croatian government is a representative of Croatia in European bodies. With regard to the adoption of European laws, the rules simultaneously strengthen the second constitutional function of the Croatian Parliament is a supervisory function. In order for you to be able to control first, you need to know, and in order to know, you need to study. Also, a colleague, Radoš, said that not all MPs do not have all the proper competencies for it, and some MPs do not have all the competencies again. Therefore, it is very important that we go into the process of organising a professional service, training European law experts, and I think that this process is in good dynamics for now, with the fact that I repeat the Law on the Relations of Government and Parliament would be good to come as soon as possible. From that title, I think that the Croatian SDP club can be satisfied with the proposed decision and the anti-cicipating of the solutions needed for EU membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9200	Thank you. No more registered on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first came from counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9201	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to support this proposal for a decision and, above all, reminding that the process of adapting the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament to the tasks and obligations of the Croatian Parliament is a permanent process. In this regard, I also see this proposal as a quality step in the light of the new obligations of the Croatian Parliament in the circumstances of EU membership as well as training, team, reorganising, professional, professional apparatus accompanying the Croatian Assembly and its work so that these tasks are done at as high level as possible when quality is Wednesday, understanding of the problems of professional assistance, seriousness and professionalism. The Croatian Parliament of the following year and formally comes into a whole new situation, as counterpart Leko said, will no longer be the only legislator in the Republic of Croatia, but it may be because the whole process of adaptation will, on the one hand, become known that the European regulations that we then apply and in our own legislation are constantly changing, and on the other hand because there are a whole series of regulations that are applied directly, so that the Croatian Parliament will in this sense have an even higher level of need to be serious, concentrated and to monitor these processes in the most qualitative way possible and at the highest possible level. The question arises as to how we have been able to do so far without a special service for international and European affairs. There have been some sublimations in solutions in the professional service that clearly cannot respond to the task of time and what is expected of us by EU membership. I would go a step further, reminding that in the overall system of diplomacy it is on the one hand formal, public, which is always run by the government through its ministry on the other hand so-called. National diplomacy where through various forms of informal channels of different societies friendships, there are also very high-quality connections and cooperation, and on the third hand there is parliamentary diplomacy which we have slightly ignored in recent years or as if we have seen it as a protocol activity of the Croatian Parliament. Right now, when the ratification of our EU membership treaty is under way in all national parliaments in Europe, it is precisely how important it is to communicate directly at Parliament-paraliament level. Because we may not have that feeling, but in many European countries, the official diplomacy represented by government services and the ministry has no direct impact on the activity of the parliaments of their own countries because the division of executive and legislative authorities is quite pronounced. In this sense, it is difficult to expect that our official diplomacy will be able to communicate as easily and easily with some European national parliaments as the Croatian Parliament can. And practice has always shown that our contacts therefore well, professionally prepared, friendly and proactive contacts from the Croatian Parliament to other national parliaments give great and good quality results. In this respect, we expect professional services to speed up this process of appointing groups of friendships between Parliament, so the Croatian Parliament and other parliaments. In this respect, I also see the proposal that the Professional Service strengthens the new International European Affairs Office, which will not only have the task of serving a system that is addressed to EU issues but also assists in a whole series of bilateral and multilateral issues in which the Croatian Parliament can and should play a concrete role. We have already heard that we are about to pass a special law that will regulate the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Government in this process that will be lasting, which is the consideration, analysis and implementation of European laws and directives. This is an important law, and the sooner we pass it, the easier it will be for the Croatian Parliament, where there will be a sub-committee directly in charge of the process, but also to the government, which, as my predecessor said, has an extremely large obligation and one specific task defined in the presentation of the Republic of Croatia in European bodies. This is our obligation under the treaty, it is our obligation also under the Lisbon Agreement and the Croatian Parliament in this sense must be aware of its obligations both in terms of respecting deadlines and in terms of content. But I would remind you that what awaits the Croatian Parliament in its own way is waiting for everyone else. As of 1 July next year, the issue of Croatia's entry and membership into the EU ceases to be an foreign policy issue. It's like never so far being transferred to our daily and domestic political affairs. There are no ministries, no government bodies that will sooner or later, with different intensity and frequency will be obliged to communicate continuously with the EU authorities and services. Every ministry, regardless of what business and obligations it has covered, will have to communicate almost, on a daily basis, with colleagues in Europe on a weekly basis. And that is why it is extremely important that we not only team it up to all those who will deal with European law but also those who will deal with European practices, good, quality, proactive people who will understand in this sense the issues and problems that we will face as a full member and solve them effectively. In that sense, let me repeat again, I welcome the proposal for this decision on the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9202	Thank you, too. We have a correction to an incorrect quote, fellow agent Davor Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9203	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here it is incorrect about neglecting parliamentary diplomacy, that is, partly correct. I would like to remind you that, in fact, this parliamentary diplomacy played an important role in the final and our negotiations, that right here in the Parliament agreed here exactly one year ago, all parliamentary parties confirmed, even the President-in-Office of the Republic, confirmed that consensus on the conclusion of the negotiations. And exactly the problem that our ratification process doesn't go any faster is that the ruling majority may give up on such consensus in some issues, such as the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and now we see also about the law on HRT. We need to return to this policy of consensus just to be successful and to complete the ratification process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9204	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Next came fellow MP Happy Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9205	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I will not repeat what has been said so far, so I will be relatively brief. But I would also like to warn that the approach, and in particular the EU's entry, brings a whole series of changes both for the Parliament and for the government, and also for the professional bodies that have to pay all of this together. I would like to warn you that a part of the Parliament's ingenuity, which we will discuss in the now announced new law, will therefore be given to experts, a part of the ingenuity will belong to expert bodies, not to the Parliament's tide. I hope...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9206	Excuse me fellow counsel, I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues for a little more attention and correction. I don't know if you've heard me, but I'd like you to keep your voice down. Here you go, colleague Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9207	So, in a law now announced in which we will define these relations between the parliament, the professional bodies of the Parliament and the Government, I think it is necessary to warn now that it is necessary to avoid what is happening at EU level, and it is called the democratic deficit, i.e. that some bodies do not have too many powers in relation to those defined and determined by the Constitution. Secondly, we are now talking about the establishment of an office, so the expert body, which is in any case to welcome and this expert body will process as said by European affairs, as well as some international affairs and it is excellent that there is one such expert body at Parliament level, therefore not at the level of a number of individual expert bodies related to different committees and work... delegations rather than one who will perform all these tasks and who will still be able to unite. [[You don't understand.]] But it seems to me that the office, one professional body, is not enough. In fact, the question arises, "Whom is this expert body professionally for whom it works?" We're basically discussing parliamentary diplomacy. The parliamentary diplomacy should be made up significantly different than it has so far. We have multilateral relations across a series of levels and across a number of specialised bodies in the Assembly, in the Interparliamentary Union, on the Committee on International Affairs, on the Committee on European Affairs, and then we have a lot of delegations such as, I think one of the delegations are our observers in the European Parliament. He had an delegation to the OSCE, an delegation to the Council of Europe, a NATO delegation, Mediterranean countries, etc. It seems to me and that's my proposal, gentlemen of the Parliament's vice presidents, I ask you to continue to process it, it is my proposal to form the coordination of all those bodies dealing with international policy, i.e. all those bodies in the Assembly that have multilateral and bilateral relations, coordination on which we will not only hear and inform what they are doing but also the bodies on which we will negotiate how we will take place in the appropriate situations. Now every delegation and every committee is working in complete autonomy and their own way without knowing what they are doing or what others have already done. It would be optimal for one such coordination and one such body to be chaired by the President of the Parliament. It can also be presided over by someone to whom we give these ingenuity, but in any case, I think one such body needs to have and form it, so it works as soon as possible. And finally, I certainly agree with my colleague, Beus Richembergh, that it is terribly important, especially at the time of the ratification of the treaty, to maintain bilateral parliamentary relations and to intensify parliamentary diplomacy at the level of friendships. Therefore, I ask you to agree as soon as possible on who will take over and who will enter into which friendship society and that those societies begin their activities and thus advance the ratification process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9208	Thank you. We're done with an individual discussion. Lastly, on behalf of the HDSSB club, representative of counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished academics who are already here early. The proposal for a Decision on the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is already, at first glance, the comparison of the legal proposal, i.e. the establishment of the Professional Service in 2001, compared to that of the 2012 ad hoc view, we have some differences, differences are observed. Therefore, the tasks and tasks of the Professional Service of the Croatian Assembly are carried out by civil servants, subsistence officers assigned to the workplaces in accordance with the law and the Regulation on the Internal Order of the Professional Service. So he says that the Professional Service is being set up, so in five provisions, it is the Secretariat of the Parliament, the Office of Presidents of Parliament, the Office of Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, the Protocol of the Parliament and the Office of the Labour Authorities of the Parliament. But then after that, it is said that separate units are forming in the Secretariat of the Parliament. And in that 2001 Law, those units are eight. I don't want to pick them up. Now, in the new legislative proposal at the Secretariat of Parliament, separate units are being formed, and there are 12 of them. So the difference is 4 in positive, 4 plus. It is clear that in such a situation when the number of separate units in the Secretariat of the Assembly is increased, it will also require new employment and to say in this administrative apparatus, into an administrative machine. More than clearly, I support the establishment and strengthening of the Office for International and European Affairs because so far has proven in coordination with these observers that they work well and work well. And it will also need to strengthen this work and will need it to say to lead to perfection in a situation where Croatia on July 1st, if God does, join the EU and be an equal member of the EU. However, several times in the new legislative proposal, a colloquial word can, and not a specific number, but it can name or employ more of its assistants or employees. So then the Secretary of Parliament can establish a college as a professional and advisory body. Okay, must or doesn't have to? This is the way you say it can, so it leaves opportunities that law as law shouldn't really be left behind. He needs to be clear, transparent and precisely determine what he needs or what he doesn't need, and he can't. It is difficult to determine according to such a form to say expressions on several occasions given by the verb of power, so it can, and by increasing the individual units in the Secretariat of the Parliament. It is a handsome example that here are colleagues who were in Brussels and Strasbourg when they leave or come to Parliament in Strasbourg or Brussels then request the transport of driver service so driver service regardless of who you are or what functions in the European Parliament driver and vehicle drives you. There is no specific driver and vehicle driving either the Vice-President of the European Parliament or the President. They're a service that works for all Europarliamentaries. That's not the case with us. That's not what we're discussing today. We don't have a driver service that's a private unit who would be at your service whether he was Vice President of the Parliament, the President of the Parliament or a parliamentary representative. Here's another thing we're going to be learning from Europe, and here's what I'm saying by increasing the private units in the Secretariat of the Parliament, which I don't approve of and which I disagree with, and what I agree with is this draft and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9210	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9211	Here's a second one. It is actually strengthening the Office for International and European Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9212	Thank you. Next final on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The awkward thing is, this is not an emergency procedure but it is very awkward that this morning at 9 am this topic on the Legislator's Committee, and then we try to arrive at a plenary session to say everything that has been discussed at one I would say to the college professional level, all of us are aware that we need to improve and help the services of the Assembly form themselves in a way that they are better and more professional service and all the working bodies and all MPs. However, here we are and we have barely arrived at this conclusion of the debate. So I'm going to say very briefly what was the opinion of our club and what we brought to the session of the Legislative Committee. One, it's unfortunate that you formed service like this because it's about a whole called professional service. The professional services have five parts, one of which is the Secretariat of the Assembly, and then the Secretariat of the Assembly again consists of the service. It would probably be a happier and better solution if these names had changed, although that may mean interventions in certain regulations. However, this further confuses the structure of internal organisational units similar to or the same title as is used in points 4 and 5 of this Decision. What is most important is our observation, which we repeated not so long ago, when the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. There was a decision on the professional service of the Assembly, which again aims to resolve working legal status, i.e. working relations, at least part of the civil servants working in the professional services of the Assembly, and the other part of those we will receive for a certain period of time until the term of office of this call. Their working relations are resolved by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. Our basic observation is, which was also with the Rules of Procedure, if we have already decided to resolve these working relations, to be resolved in the same way and in the same document, so that the decision on the professional service of the Croatian Parliament will address the issue of those officials who will be admitted, so to speak, for a period of time until the end of the term of office of individual clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. And that principle will be worth as much as we have understood for those who will work as professional assistance in the offices of the president and vice president of the Parliament. That is the basic remark on this text. Our second observation was that the importance of these services classified here in 12 services and other titles of libraries, information and documentation services, and so on, is that their meaning is different. Some, it seems, are now under the capacitated, one of them is the Office for the preparation of acts of the Assembly for publication. It seems to me that everyone who has had the opportunity to work on it knows to what extent the problem was and how difficult that service is working with a relatively small number of people. Another Citizens' Service that would almost turn into some kind of tourist service, because among other things, it would lead guests in these areas. Our proposal was to consider that instead of this service, we may even have a special committee as a permanent working body that can put on its agenda the demands of citizens to discuss. Not as individual subjects, but as perhaps topics to give citizens the initiative to learn in the procedure, the Assembly and thus to articulate their interests and problems they face. This Civilian Service is certainly not and will not be in the same plane of power to answer to other services, I say to the Office for the preparation of acts of the Assembly for publication of services for legal affairs and human potentials etc. And that doesn't seem to make this decision the best balance. In addition, it did not fully implement what you had predicted by the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, so the Secretary of Parliament, the Deputy Secretary of Parliament and the assistants are treated in one way, and in another they are treated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. We also said that in addition to the position of the Secretary of Parliament and the Deputy Secretary, we now have the assistant deputy secretary who is also the secretary of the plenary session. The non-consistent regulation will not lead to any safety or quality work, and therefore we propose that in this decision our observations are accepted and therefore make decisions the way we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9214	Thank you, too. We're done. Does he have an additional proposal? Here you go, Vice President, colleague Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Thank you very much, everyone who participated. I think it dominated the desire to fix, improve, enable a new organisation, new organisation of the professional service of the Croatian Parliament, that MPs of the Parliament can generally respond to their constitutional tasks. And the new position of the Parliament when Croatia is a member of the European Union. This insistence is also very valuable to all those who have supported or made their comments in this regard, the suggestions welcome. As for new services or an increase in the number of services, this does not necessarily mean that these services will increase the number of employees. But quite certainly reorganization is needed because of new tasks, new services are needed because of the new tasks of the Croatian Parliament. And since the newspapers and new relations are Europe-Croatian, Croatian institutions and European institutions. It's important to strengthen the service, the Parliament Service of Public Relations, simply that's, that's an obligation we can't skip. How this service will work, of course, remains to be seen. We hope that he will succeed in accomplishing his assignments. As far as the proposal is concerned, I said that it would be best to pass a special law regarding professional services of representative bodies, including professional services of the Croatian Parliament. Which could solve this whole problem. All in all, I believe that the presidency proposal will pass by consensus in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9216	Thank you. This concludes the debate, we'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9217	We move on to the Proposal for a Decision on the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes, 88 votes in favour, 38 abstentions have been decided on the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9218	And we are moving to a new agenda point: - Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2011. A year. The report was submitted by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would like to request the representative of the motionor, Mr. Paul Rudan's secretary-general, to brief us on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9219	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative, the Honorable Mr. MPs, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I am honored to submit a report on the work of the Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2011 on behalf of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, of the Croatian People's Culture and of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Academy encourages and organises scientific work and advocates the results achieved, develops artistic and cultural activities and takes care of Croatian cultural heritage and its affirmation in the world. It publishes the results of scientific research and artistic creation, offers proposals and opinions to improve science and art in areas of particular importance for the Republic of Croatia. Everything that was done in 2011 is shown in the Croatian Academy of Flights which we had the honour of delivering to you all. And I have to say this is just a list of our activities in 2011. So this is just a list of the activities of individual councils, classes, members of the academy, committees, members, associates, museum-gallery units. Let me highlight only a few numerical data about the part of the activity during 2011. A formal session of the Academy was held to mark 150 years of the existence of our Academy, 150 years as in this Assembly Josip Juraj Strossmayer outlined the strategy of the direct need for the establishment of an institution called Academia Scientiarum et artium Slavorum meridionalium. We also held the 150 - anniversary session as well as numerous guests from the academy and other countries. A number of scientific gatherings, counselling and round tables have been organized - a total of 77. Assemblys and formal sessions were held, concerts, numerous delegations and realized many patronages - 65 public lectures and 62 book presentations were held, 55 exhibitions organized by academic museum and gallery units, 8 defence master's and doctoral dissertations, and unfortunately 15 memorial meetings of the deceased members of our Academy. On 31 December 2011, the Academy of Science and Arts had 133 regular members, 131 correspondence members, and 87 associates. Unfortunately, 13 of our members died in 2011, 4 regular members, 4 associates and 5 correspondence members. Two regular congregations and two solemn sessions were held. At the regular assembly in March 2011, we presented the Yearbook for 2010. The December regular assembly accepted work plans for 2012. The first annual meeting of the Academy on 29 April 2011 at the Croatian National Theatre on the occasion of the ceremony of the 150 years of Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was attended by members of the Academy and many guests: the President of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and many scientists, cultural workers, public and political workers, and in particular representatives of foreign academics from 19 countries. I am honored to inform you that on this occasion, the president of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Scientiarum Ivo Josipovic, awarded the Croatian State Award to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which he handed to the president of the Academy of Academy, Zvonko Kusic. The second annual session was held on 26 May 2011 and was awarded awards from the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts for the highest scientific and artistic achievements in the Republic of Croatia for 2010 in the field of natural sciences and mathematics, fields of medical sciences, fields of philology, the field of literature, the field of art, the field of music art, and the field of technical sciences. The Academy Bureau held a total of 9 regular sessions to discuss the preparation and programme of publishing activities, particularly on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the Academy, and preparations for printing and at the end of the printing of a magnificent book entitled Liber Office of Beatae Mariae Virginis, i.e. Strossmayer's magazine, which the founder of our Academy, along with Parliament in 1884, gave to our library as his journal. On the first major event in the occasion of the celebration of the Academy of the Year on February 3rd in the National and University Library in Zagreb, which could be shown as an extremely significant publication of the entire publishing activity of the Academy over 150 years. The financial business, the financial business of the Croatian Academy Foundation, was discussed, on a visit to the Academy's delegation to the President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Josipovic, on the presentation of a publishing activity in 2010, on judicial activities on the basis of which the fees for Christmas holidays for a year for more than 5,000 kuna per person should be paid for the initiative relating to the intensification and innovation of the Croatian Academy's work in view of the opening of the Academy of Publicities. For example, about lectures at the Academy every Thursday at the Academy Library, about the open door of the Academy, about concerts at the Academy, etc. Also on the proposal for Croatian RadioTelevision that along with those interesting editions of various contributions dedicated to the deceased members, presidents of the Academy, also held in some way the presentation of the four most prominent honorary members of our Academy and these were Nobels Vladimir Prelog and Lavoslav Leopold Ružiščka, and the greats of our art and science Ivan Meštrović and Nikola Tesla. Furthermore, there have been discussions on events that will prepare classes in the context of the 150th anniversary, the debate and the Croatian language which must be a permanent academy activity on the initiatives and proposals of different scientific institutions and associations that the academy should, in the end of the day, always be able to refer and publish its views and views and present proposals and opinions, in particular on important, scientific, cultural, artistic and social issues of the Republic of Croatia. With this I would like to draw attention to the fact that within our activity in 2011 was an extremely important round table held on 7 April, titled "Knowledge, the Foundation of Competitiveness and Development", and that the Academy also gave its statement of importance to the knowledge and use of knowledge for the exit from the crisis and development of Croatia. It calls on academic classes to organise discussions on the current problems of Croatian society on higher education reform, the economic situation, the rule of law, the state of society and... assessments of the conditions and problems considered. Meetings of newly elected members of the Academy's administration with Croatian Parliament President Luka Bebić and the Zagreb archbishop Cardinal Josip Bozanic. The decision the Presidency made to award Croatian Academy of Science and Arts awards for the highest scientific and artistic achievements in the Republic of Croatia on judicial processes, which unfortunately leads to the Modern Gallery in order to ensure evidence of the review of all invested books and thus to ensure an actual analysis of the existing situation. Then on the report from the General Assembly of the Alley made up of 53 academias, including the HAZU of 42 European States, on the statement by the HAZU on the occasion of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former SFRY in the case of Gotovina-Markač-Cermak, who referred the administration of the Academy to the public right after the first-degree verdict was handed down. Then on the further course of the out-of-party procedure in view of which evidence is being provided in order to determine the relevant circumstances of 1045 art of documented property located in the Modern Gallery marking the 20th anniversary of the creation of the Croatian state, attended by Prof. Dr. Ivo Josipovic President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Luka Bebic, President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and Cardinal Josip Bozanić, the archbishop of Zagreb, along with numerous other social political employees. The Symphony Orchestra was held at the Vatroslav Lisinski Concert Hall on 22 September 2011 under the supervision of the Master of Academy of Paul Dešpalj in honor of the 150th anniversary of the foundation of the Croatian Academy and the 85th anniversary of HRTV. On the proposal for amendments and additions to the financial plan, on the establishment of the text of the presidency of the HAZU on Serbian promotions towards Croatian literary heritage, on the notice that the order of the Croatian Nobel Prizes was completed in the premises of the Croatian Library of the Croatian Academy, and on the Croatian Nobel Prizes Lavoslav Ružički and Vladimir Prelog, but the presidency also accepted the proposal to mark the Nobel Prize in an appropriate manner the Nobel Prizer Ivo Andrić and the greats of our culture Miroslav Krleža. On the proposal by the academics Zvonko Kusic, the event "The Open Door Days of the HAZU" was organized by the end of 2011, which was held during the two days when the palace of the Academy and other academia units were visited by numerous citizens of the Republic of Croatia over 4 thousand visitors who were truly very pleased because they first entered the temple of culture and science. I must admit that they had the opportunity for citizens to enter all the premises of the academy, even in the cabinet of the president of the academy, and some when they realized that Academyman Zvonko Kusic and the doctor also asked for advice in view of certain medical problems. I must say that special attention has been paid to HAZU's 2012 work plans, on the proposal for a financial plan and on a number of other issues related to our science and art. As far as the Croatian Academy Foundation is concerned, I must admit that it encouraged scientific research and art work in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with its statutes, it participated in the financing of a total of 128 projects allocated to a million kunas. Thank you very much. The International Cooperation Committee of the Croatian Academy has increased the scope of its work is intensive international co-operation, the work of members of our Academy in HERA i.e. The structure of the Humanities in the European Research Area, in ALLEA All European Academys, in EMA Euro-Mediterranean Academic Network, and in particular at the ESF European Scientis Foundation, representatives of the Croatian Academy of Permanent Committees of the European Science Foundation actively participate in its work. Of the other forms of international cooperation, I draw attention to the fact that bilateral cooperation has taken place together with 35 different European and world Academys, including the French Institute, the French Academy of Science, the National Academy of Science, the Italian Academy, the Chinese Academy of Science, the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Science, the Academy of Leopodin, the Russian Academy of Science, the Royal Academy of Science, the history and the antiques of the Kingdom of Sweden, the Ukrainian National Academy, the Royal Society in London, the Berlin Academy, etc. In the framework of inter-academic bilateral cooperation, guesting or visiting our academy for various scientific studies, a total of 31 foreign scientists came to Croatia to study certain scientific and cultural problems in various academic institutions. The awards committee coordinated the work of the academy classes, and as far as what is most important is perhaps the editorship and work on the Croatia and Europe Eddie. Croatia and Europe are the capital works of the HAZU, the five books of our people in the last year are printed in several different forms. One is the third volume published in French called... and was also prepared an English contribution which will be printed during this year. [[The speaker speaks French, he doesn't understand.]] During 2011, the paper focused on the fifth edition volume under the working title "Current Croatian Culture" and we believe that it will be published by the end of this year. As far as the Arboretum Reconstruction Committee in Trieste is concerned, there is a question of a dive of large rocks on the road leading from our Arboretum to a part of the port in Trieste. It is clear that over the past years, because this problem has been current for several years in this area of our homeland, and especially in Tristenome, it has been resolved in one way that a large rock has been removed from the road that is otherwise owned by Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Dubrovnik City and there are certain signs that it must not pass there. But above the road at a distance of approximately 100, 150 meters, above the road is a huge complex of land owned by the academy, but it is simply above the road that passes beneath it. In order to sort this out, and since there was a fire in Trieste, since wastewater also comes to this or causes certain problems, it is necessary to resolve and prevent it. The Academy invested about 75 thousand kuna to assess the situation, but we don't have any more money for it, and there's a way to find a deal between the Academy and between the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the City of Dubrovnik because we don't have any more real money for it. We've sent a request to the Ministry of Culture with a request to sort it out in some way. At this point, the situation is not dangerous, but it would be a pity that this pearl of our academy and at all of the Republic of Croatia, the Arboratum in Tristen, is simply partly destroyed because we do not have the means to resuscitate the situation. As for the protection and maintenance services of assets and cultural goods, it is largely financed by State budgeted capital projects. The most important thing was that in Hebrang's 1 building, where the modern gallery was located, we performed a public competition procedure in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the performer was given the opportunity to perform works. The building Pojate in Arboretum of Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was reconstructed, only partly because we launched a project which was designed as a two-year-old and in nature it is an upgrade, upgrade and re-designation of the building in order to in some way implement a further process, but we do not have the means to do so. Within the framework of the ongoing maintenance of the buildings of the Academy in the Palace of Zrinski trg, there were also established and built-in moving regimes for the disposal and storage of the foundations of the paintings of Strossmayer's gallery of old masters, works were carried out and the museum of Nobel laureates was co-financed by the City of Zagreb. In order to maintain the existing micro-climate conditions, decommissioning devices have been purchased at the academy archive depot. The rehabilitation of the sanitary node in Medvedgradska was completed, and the building in Ante Kovacicica arranged basement spaces as a depot from the Institute of Paleontology and Geology... , and on the second floor were arranged the workplaces of the academy. [[You don't understand.]] From the Hebrang 1 palace, various academia classes were moved to the palace in Zrinski Square, the new premises of the graphics cabinet were arranged. In the Palace of Miles, Split, there was a minor restoration of the outdoor carpentry. I must admit that the big problem of the building in Fascism Square is 10-13, the building in Križanić's 3, namely that building has 8,000 m2 of really devastated space and we don't have the means to arrange it. It was built as property of the Academy before World War II so that the rental of these premises could be secured by the financing of the Academy. There was a dormitories that unfortunately was evicted, but it's actually a space that can't be used. We made a request to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in February of this year to help us resolve this issue and put that building, that space at our disposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As for the academy classes, you know that they operate through 9 classes, 21 scientific research units, 4 museum-gallery units, 14 scientific councils and the Croatian crystallographic community. Last year we also set up a class to deal with, or a department to deal with, a working group that will deal with the strategy of research and research, obtaining different projects from potentially international and foreign organisations. In view of the work of some members of the Academy, many of the members of the Academy received the award of life work in the last year, the awards of certain cities, counties, etc., and among others I mention only some of the distinguished colleagues such as Ruben Radivu, Ivan Aralica, Šime Vulas, Dinko Kovačić, then Pavel Dešpalj and Angelko Klobučar, Vladimir Marković, Peter Strčić, Nenada Kambi, Mirko Tomasović, Mark Sarić, Eugen Topnik, Luka Paletka, who was accepted as the first foreign member of the Academy of Russian Literature, then academics Radoslav Katičić, who was elected a member of the National Academy... in Rome and academician Tonko Marojevic, who was elected member of the Slovenian Academy of Science. [[You don't understand.]] I am honored to say that last year, academic Vladimir Stipetic marked the 50th anniversary of his membership in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, so this is the longest member in our academy since 1961. Academic Stipetic presented his new book "200 years of Croatian economy" two days ago. I must admit that we were thrilled at the academy library because the analyses shown in that book, which are based on the most perfect scientific procedures in the assessment of economic situations, showed that from 1805 to 2005, we did not really move very much over 200 years given the gross national income per capital. On November 29th and 30th, an open door of the Academy was held, on October 18th, a concert was held in a rebirth hall where compositions by members of the class of academics Paul Dešpalj, academician Angelka Klobučar, academician Frana Parać, academician Ruben Radice and the late now academician Mark Ruždjak were performed. The Academy of Science and Research is conducted in classes and other units, institutions, centres, laboratories and cabinets. The Academy has 23 such units, in Zagreb 8, and 15 of them are located outside Zagreb – from Vukovar, Osijek, Vinkovaca then Požega, Bjelovar, Varazdin, Rijeka, Pula, Zadar, Sibenik to Split, Trstenogo, Dubrovnik and Cavtat. All of this in the yearbook is very detailed. Scientific and research projects within the Academy's various scientific and research units were financed in the last year by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and 31 such a project. I am pleased to see that in the database CROSBY – means Croatian scientific bibliography, a total of 2115 titles of various scientific, professional works have been published within these projects in the last 5 years. The academy employs 229 employees today. So these aren't academics, they're employees and 40 scientific recruits. The total of 269 employees in 40 constituencies, of which 14 units are located in Zagreb, i.e. outside Zagreb, and 26 in Zagreb are located at 10 locations. The museum-gallery activity was extremely important. In 2011, Gliptotheque held 20 exhibitions and 4 book presentations, i.e. presentations of various works and a series of other events, concerts, charity auctions, presentations. 8 exhibitions were held in the graphics cabinet, an uninterrupted visiting gallery was opened in Strossmayer's gallery of old masters. The Croatian Museum of Architecture held 2 exhibitions and 4 lectures all with appropriate catalogues. The Croatian Academy Archive continued the computerisation process. I have to admit, it was a very good process. Out of the total number of books collected, 531 volumes were also collected in the library, by the exchange of 144, by buying 360 and was also sent in the proportion of 2600 volumes of books. The systematic digitisation of the academic editions and the diplomatic chamber of the old writers of Croatians, chambers of folk life and customs, the construction for the history of Croatian literature and monuments of the historicalam Slavorum meridionalium and antiquity was continued. In the academy there are other forms of scientific research through 14 scientific councils. The publishing activity was remarkable and we are really proud of this publishing activity. Last 2011 a total of 108 volumes of various publications, 20 books, 19 chambers of papers, 30 volumes of magazines, 2 books of abstracts, 23 catalogues of exhibitions, 2 deplens, 2 doctors, 2 statements and 8 monuments of deceased academics were published. With the support of the Croatian Academy Foundation, 59 more titles have been published. This means that a total of 169 editions were published within the academy in 2011, which means that every week in 2011 2 to 3 titles came out of the academy. And we can be proud of it. We're in a very awkward situation. Financial report for 2011 and final account. I must admit that the academy's revenues in 2011 amounted to 71 million 195 thousand 585 kuna and 42 June. And that was the achievement of a total of 97.72% of what we're going to spend and get from different sources in 2011. Unfortunately, the expenditures were made with 99.24% so 2,28% we received less than we betrayed. The expenditures were 72 million 305 thousand 912 kuna and 44 June. We could, like any of our institutions, finish a year with the fact that we haven't been paying certain bills in the last 15 days, so we'd be exactly as fixed if we were allowed to use it as a word in this House, but that the receipts were accurate with the expenses. No, that's not what we wanted. We wanted to show that we crossed a million 110 thousand 327 kuna and 2 June, but we compensated it from the accumulated funds of previous years. But I have to draw attention to the fact that unfortunately we haven't been able to collect our claims to customers in the amount of millions of 598 thousand 29 kuna and 19 lipa, which means that we're de facto positive, that we're able to charge. Now we're trying to charge for it. Ladies and gentlemen, we can rightly say if the previous years, and especially in the last year of 2011, have been made a major step in efforts to open up the academy to the media as much as possible, and thus to the general public in this respect, increased contacts with the public, and I especially thank that part of the Croatian news and radio and television that regularly followed the work of the Academy of Science and Arts and reported it objectively to the public. We point out that the new administration has intensified all forms of cooperation with the media, but thanks to the efforts of all its members, it has opened our institution to the public, to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as I think and recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9220	Excuse me, please. Here's half an hour's up, so please get close to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9221	I'm just finishing my last sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9222	Oh, great, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9223	Therefore, I would like to say, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2011, there were 490 different events in the academy, which means daily and two-and-a-half events. It is our view that the academy should be modernised, but the entire Croatian society should be modernised on the affirmations of leading social values, knowledge and excellence, and that this is done in our temple of culture, science, art and rhetoric. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9224	Thank you too, Mr. Secretary General of the HAZU, Mr. Rudan. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here is Madam Representative Dunja Špoljar on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9225	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished academics, colleagues and colleagues. The Education, Science and Culture Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 6th session held on 23 May of this year the 2011 Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts Report submitted to the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts by an act of 16 April this year. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the rapporteurs of the report, representing activities for 2011. Reporters pointed out that during 2011 two formal and two regular sessions were held, i.e. the regular ones to which it was marked, these 150th anniversary of the Academy. 77 scientific conferences, 65 lectures, 62 book presentations, 55 exhibitions, 8 defences of master's and doctoral works, 15 memorial meetings and many other activities were organised. The board members praised the academy's work in the past year as well as plans for next year. They positively assess the opening of the academy to the media and the general public, which they consider to be a major step forward, extremely important for the work of the academy. The board members were interested in the information on whether the academy plans to implement the conclusion of its founder in connection with the establishment of a new class of academy and also in the debate, a particular problem has been identified which concerns the very position of property owned by the Academy. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the 2011 report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9226	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate, so we're starting with clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, Mr. Representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9227	The Honorable President, the Honorable Academyman Rudan, colleagues and colleagues. It is bad when institutions are important for the functioning of the state and for the preservation of tradition and for the spiritual health of the nation to be bewitched, imprisoned, separated from the people. In Croatia, the government, primarily the crisis of institutions that imposed the only unquestioned criteria, and this unquestionable criterion is the absence of any criteria. The crisis is seen every day in every social segment, especially in politics, the crisis of the system. The crisis is responsibility, although every day we swear to responsibility is increasingly less responsibility especially in politics from institutions to a government that often does not know how to pass on what it does to the people. In such an atmosphere, in this crisis system in a crisis of responsibility, the inevitable division of the elite and the rest of the decomposed society, of the privileged and disbursed, of those who have information, of those who have knowledge and of those who have no information, and of those who are becoming increasingly difficult to know. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is an institution where a part of the scientific, intellectual and artistic elite is chosen. The elite, according to the 2011 report, is very active, is collecting knowledge. But there is little public knowledge about it, and when there is little knowledge, society does not benefit from it. Part of the guilt that the Croatian Academy of Science and Art is acting almost illegally is also guilty of the academy itself. And part of the guilt is mostly sensational, mostly sensational media that isn't interested in anything but sensations. Never take a stand or a side is the first sign of honesty. Then there's honesty, and then you become a hopeless case, said Oscar Wild. It seems that academics are in part following his recommendations. Still, like the academic Rudan said, it's moving better. Since the head of the academy, respected academicist Zvonko Kusic, with the help of academics Rudan, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has started to open slightly. The academy began to communicate with its people, the academy also began to talk about current life problems, but this is far from what the academy should do. We often mention the founder of Strossmayer, who should be seen opening up issues important to the people, also raised political issues. What's the academy of science and art doing today? Academic Rudan said to me one by one the only important topic of life that was opened by the public, it's a relationship to the generals in The Hague. However, the Academy of Science and Art should discuss the essence of the crisis, the causes, must offer one solution. I repeat, if the people don't hear what the academics think, what the academics recommend. Dear academic Rudan, all the knowledge you have must be given to the people because the people expect it from you. He's not asking, but he's hoping, he's not asking because everyone he's asked for, they've disappointed him, don't do it, and you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9228	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9229	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear academician Rudan. I'm going to speak here in this report, and I'm going to try to keep the factographic data mentioned in the report, so that, for example, we can read what I think is most valuable from this report, and that's exactly what we're going to do in the future. Recently, if I'm not mistaken, we had a 2010 report when many of us here in this Assembly were talking about the problem of funding the Academy which academic Rudan did not present. But we have to mention that for next year, we have a reduction in funds for the Academy's operation. This report before us today, of course, is convenient among other things because it was the 150th anniversary of the Academy. Of course, it was the 300th anniversary of Ruđer Boskovic also marked as UNESCO's year. But it was certainly an opportunity to show through this report a series of activities that the Academy had spent. I am glad that lately we have been able to hear the data that the average years of academics and academics in the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts are also something to say improved or reduced. We can certainly say that the report is properly written. I would especially say that this section concerning the financial part of the Report which is precise and accurate about both the revenues and the expenditures of the Academy is very commendable that it is so explicitly stated. I think it's about good financial planning, it's rare institutions that have plans in 97, 99% of executions, and I think it's for every commendation. What I would like to look at in particular is the number of discussions, the number of anniversarys, the number of awards the academics received, and also the care of the Academy about their ownership, that is, Croatian cultural heritage, or the areas in which the Academy operates. It is listed in the Report more than 2,000 works in 5 years. Now for the future. Whether the job of the Academy is the number of papers not to say the quantity or should also have an international, number of international quotations of these works, or internationally recognised the relevance of these scientific works. Of course it's an impressive list of 31 scientific projects, the same thing goes for that. Number of international quotations and relevance of scientific projects. As they ended up, after the completion of these scientific projects how they could implicate themselves in everyday life, how they could possibly implicate themselves in the economy, in entrepreneurship, in everything else we've heard about the Academy here being able to bear in mind. What is particularly warning is the question of more than one million kuna that the Academy will have to pay him for the 2001 dispute on Christmas fees as a warning to the competent ministries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that during the next decisions this type will be very careful not to have these financial repercusions that the Academy has now. It is terrible that there is international cooperation between the Academy in this report. I think it must be even more intense especially towards international organisations, especially UNESCO. It's been stolen, and I'd say one mistake that says the Ministry of Culture didn't finance the digitisation of certain parts. I have to say, he's in last year with 80,000 kuna. All together, the Ministry of Culture has singled out over 400,000 kuna programs, and that part here will be taken as the technical error of this report. A real solution to the programme of digitisation and inclusion of the Academy in the national digitalisation programme together with the Croatian State Archives, National and University Library and with two competent ministries, Ministry of Science and Culture. The same is the solution for the museum-gallery activity of the Academy so that the Academy and its museum-gallery potential can be included in the common network and can also accept those exhibitions that are not the product of direct activities of academic experts. Suggestions for the future. The Academy must be a place of development of long-term and short-term strategies. The academy, as it has seen itself, must open the door and it must be a practice. Academy experts must participate in public debates, laws. I believe that the Academy will also be agile in this year when the public debate introduces laws relating to science and education as it was in 2011 and this is stated in the Report. I'm sure the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts will have a lot to say. I am sure that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts will be involved in a public debate about the third programme of Croatian television that should be dedicated to culture, art and science. Then the Academy would not have to directly intervene with the HTV editorship to dedicate themselves to Mr, our academics Prelog, Ružički and others as stated in the Report. I'm sure the Academy will be involved in the development of new scientific programs related to artistic titles, which is now under discussion. I would especially like the Academy to have that in mind. It is in some way a return to the debt of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to the social community that finance it. What I must say in this report is that I was not pleased with any of the previous culture ministers, and this is a dispute between the Croatian Academy of Science and Art and the modern gallery. Regardless of the several constructive conversations I have had with both the president of the Academy and the other gentlemen of the Academy and with the directorate of the Modern Gallery, I do not understand how the situation has arisen that there is still a situation of going to a judicial dispute between the two state institutions to pay the funds for the attorney offices and that this cannot be settled in agreement, and of course it is related to the issue of ownership of the paintings that are displayed in the Modern Gallery, which are as a corpus isolated in '74. For years, we're not going into the history of this. No matter who formally and legally was the title of ownership and art are always owned by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods. There's no dispute here. Therefore, I believe that there may have to be a little more tact in order to save some funds and to invest in projects, either in maintaining the material resources that the Academy has. In any case, I believe that in the future, the Academy will continue to work in accordance with these proposals, which have already been made several times in these proposals that I have now said, as far as possible in the Croatian public and in order to contribute as much to Croatian society as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9230	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9231	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear academician Rudan. The HNS Club and Liberal Democrats will accept this report from the Academy in Work in 2011 but we would like to say a few notes. I promise not to yell, but allow me a few minutes to tell you what we'd like to say in this report. So, since yesterday's topic was the main issue in this House was the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality, then I'll start with the topic, so the academy still has a big problem with the participation of women in membership, one marked inequality in this relationship. Only about 10% of the members of the various categories of membership in the academy are women. We all live in time, and you're all aware that we live in the time of a general examination of institutions, re-examine religious institutions, re-examine state institutions, and thus re-examine scientific institutions. An institution that is so far away from the reality of life in some basic settings, such as the share of genders in membership, of course, opens itself up to the danger that the question that is currently happening in society does not go well. The more data from the census than 10 years ago, I am sure that from last year, it will only further confirm that the higher the level of education in the Republic of Croatia, the greater the share of women, so that at the highest degrees in the doctorate we have even more share of women than men. So it further shows how disproportionate this disproportionate is at the academy. And in addition, another information that is very interesting is seen from the report itself. So, the HAZU award for special achievements in science and art has 8 winners in 2011 of which 4 women, 4 men. So that's where the relationship is even. And if this is something that we can conclude on then this relationship shows that women and men in Croatia are completely equal in contributing to the excellent contribution of science and art. And it remains actually unclear why then the academy still has such a terrible misunderstanding in membership, unfortunately it's not the subject of this report in 2011, but unfortunately these last elections at the academy that we had three weeks ago have not shown that the academy is moving in the other direction. So again, among the elected members and members of the academy, this huge disproportionate still remains a concrete situation. What is commendable is certainly and this is what my colleagues were talking about before me was opening the Academy of Public, lectures on Thursdays, open doors, concerts etc. However, there is of course a need to make sure that the whole story does not remain in shape, but that, indeed, that, too, my colleague Vuksic said that indeed the academy would enter among the citizens that this relationship in Croatia that I was talking about the last time we spoke about a report for the previous year, that one relationship of some kind and even contempt for the knowledge, science and science that exists in one part of our society. Unfortunately, the academy is also louder and what the Academy is doing is really visible and accessible to the Croatian public in all the positive ways in which science and art enrich our lives, our country, our society and all of us. In particular, there is important co-operation with HRT, so the report notes on the contributions to the deceased members. With all due respect to the deceased members, unfortunately because of its structure, the academy is such an organization that has very often unfortunately members die, but I think we should do a little bit more about what is life, what is living, which is really the result of the work, the results of scientific research, the end of it, and the academics who live and what they are currently doing and what they are enriching our country and our society. We hope that, given these changes that follow on HRT, there will be more hearing in the future on both public television and public radio indeed for the enriching and scientific and educational and cultural programmes which unfortunately fell to very low branches on HRT. And I'm sure the academy can also have its place in enriching that operation of HRT. This famous class of visual art is also mentioned. It's something that's already in at least two parliamentary terms if not longer. Academic Rudan, you won't be offended by me, but the arguments we've heard myself and us at the HNS club are not overly convincing, so the arguments against the founding of that class. It is said that this would increase the number of academics on the one hand, and then it is said that the problem is solved because it can be solved so that academics in other classes are deployed. However, these two arguments in themselves are in disorientation, in contrast. Because if we deploy academics in other classes, so we increase the number of academics, and if we avoid an increase in the number of academics, then we don't give those in visual arts a chance to be at the academy. I'd like to ask the academy again to consider setting up a class for visual art. It seems to me that this is also one step in some way adapting the academy to the world and the modernity of the time we live in, and it really wouldn't hurt even to increase the number of academics. Well, maybe in that class of visual arts, we could also ensure more equality between men and women among academics. A statement by HAZU on Gotovina, Cermak and Markac's verdict. I wouldn't want to go into the contents of that statement if we didn't take the debate the wrong way again. However, I cannot help but notice that it seems to me that an institution such as the HAZU founded by the Croatian State should be very careful and I will remain on it. Very careful when condemning international courts, which are also one of the founders of the Republic of Croatia, is also found unacceptable. I won't go any further, especially since the academy really rarely comes public about social and political problems. It seems to me that it might have been a little bit more careful here, but it's really more my personal attitude. But since it is also the founder of the Academy of the Republic of Croatia and the founder of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and that it is an inadmissible verdict there may have been a little more tact. What is a commendable initiative of the class for medical science and the accompanying decision on the establishment of the HAZU Ethics Commission to address research issues in which the so-called "HAZU" is used. Human material, tumor tissue and the like. So it's a debate that's actually waiting for us in Croatia. We have discussed very little in Croatia and politics and the public in general all aspects of these modern medical and scientific research that then include both human material and various types of then such and research and treatment of medical and other uses of such research. In any case it is commendable that the Academy is therefore thinking about it and that the members of the Academy have established this Ethics Commission which will then deal with this issue which in fact at a large door I think is just coming to Croatia, but it is certainly imminent to come in view of the development of science, the development of medical science and the development of the possibility of using such research. The dispute with the modern gallery of counterpart Mesic mainly said, but I can't say again, it's really unreasonable, it seems irrational and irrational that two state institutions, that the two institutions that finance taxpayers' money spent that money on each other's disputes were judicial, and it's indeed something that perhaps systematically at Parliament level we should consider resolving what in such situations, in which way we can settle such disputes so that as little taxpayers' money as possible would be spent foolishly on disputes between the two institutions that are financed by public money. And to end what it is, and I would like to repeat it, is certainly worth the attention of this attempt to open the Academy to the public, but I would agree here with a colleague who talked about it, it doesn't seem enough for now, the results really don't seem enough for now. Croatia needs to change its relationship to knowledge, to science, to science. That must be where the academy has its place and should have a stronger role than it's ever played. This first step is certainly commendable, but it's certainly not enough. And for the end alone, counterpart Mesic mentioned the problem of funding. It seems somewhat unlikely to me that one institution that gathers the cream of science and art in the Republic of Croatia is not able to have a greater share in its own resources than it still depends to the greatest extent on public money, and that all these scientists, all this knowledge, all this experience, all this expertise in various areas, are not in a way able to attract one part of the income and past these public funds and beyond these public funds. So it's something that remains for Croatia to think and he if he doesn't actually know the category... and he, if he does not know these various variants of expertise and knowledge which he then sells his service in one way or another to market stakeholders and that is certainly in the context of funding and in the context of the share of public money in HAZU financing, something that should start to be more serious in the future. [[You don't understand.]] Here's a colleague and a colleague so much about it. So the HNS will support this report, but with some of the notes we said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9232	Thank you very much. You have Mr. Agent Coleman three corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9233	Thank you very much. Two corrections, or two incorrect allegations, were made by a colleague. The founder of HAZU is not a Croatian state, it was founded almost 150 years ago and its founder and founder is Josip Juraj Strossmayer, and therefore it cannot be said that it was created 20 years ago when the Croatian state was created. Secondly, his colleague also criticised the non-opening of the HAZU to the public, and when he mentioned the statement by HAZU about the case of Cermak, Gotovina, Markac, whether I am correcting it, so whether it is one of the forms of opening the HAZU to the Croatian public, and then you condemn it. That's contradictory of what you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9234	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. And just to say, now you can't react after, I'm sorry, you can't unfortunately get the word I was going to say. But Mr. Josip Djakic has a word, a correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9235	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So it is an incorrect allegation of colleagues who claim that the HAZU should not and should not have assessed the unacceptable charges made in the first degree by Gotovina, Markac and Cermak. On the contrary, as a scientific authority in the Republic of Croatia, she certainly should have made her comment and this, equally on all occasions and social events, she certainly has a very important word when to say it. On the contrary, the Serbian Academy has devised a war plan for the Republic of Croatia and no one has rebelled against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9236	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9237	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. So I also believe that the incorrect claim by counterpart Coleman that HAZU should not have been advertised for the rulings of Croatian generals in The Hague. However, I think that despite the fact that the Croatian Academy is an independent institution is not like any other independent institutions in Croatia independent of Croatian interests. The government of the Republic of Croatia and President Josipovic also called for the non-acceptability of these judgments, we had agreed views and it is perfectly normal and expected that the HAZU also highlighted the historical facts on which the verdicts were made. So it's unacceptable for us to qualify as a joint criminal enterprise. The fact was that Croatia was exposed to bloody aggression and that Croatia was a victim and that Croatia had the right to defend itself, and that the generals were generals of the victorious Croatian Army and that they led Croatian soldiers to defend and release the Republic of Croatia and that it was very much to be declared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9238	Thank you, Vice President Kosor. I would now ask that Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic speak on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9239	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, academic Rudan, MPs and MPs. From the 2011 report on HAZU's work, I think it was quite clear to all of us that this prominent institution has done and done a whole series of tasks, tasks and scientific, valuable scientific activities, in fact, published a whole series of valuable sciences to improve scientific and artistic activities. We heard there were 351 members in total, that there were 4 sessions, 9 classes, 21 construction units, 12 scientific councils. The activities of academy units located outside the capital focus on various aspects of scientific and artistic work, and they represent an important form of the above-mentioned activities in the environments in which they work by gathering aphided scientists and artists from outside and from local backgrounds. In a wide range of active functioning of those regional units of the Academy, rich activities are being carried out and from the publishing industry to the exhibition. In addition to the activation of publishing activities that promotes the scientific and cultural activities of certain communities and local communities, there are also numerous book presentations, brochures, catalogues, scientific gatherings, exhibitions and the like. The work of local units of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is a powerful motivator for the promotion and maintenance of scientific and cultural activities at a higher level in those areas where they operate. These activities are also a driver of local communities and are actively involved in its efforts to improve social life in that environment. Two years ago, HAZU launched an initiative to establish a scientific and artistic unit in the city of Djakov, in agreement with the Catholic Faculty of God and the city of Djakov. With this proposal, the academy wanted to pay off its founders and to punish the Djakova-Srijem bishop Strossmayer. The establishment of a scientific and artistic unit in the city of Đakovo would also be a further rise to an even higher level of the traditional manifestation of Strossmayer's days in Đakovo and at the same time the foundation of another important scientific and artistic hotspot in Slavonia, which would be of paramount importance both for the city of Đakovo and for the entire area of Slavonia. This would also give recognition to the very city of Bishop Juraj Strossmayer of Mecenna and Visionary, who, through his donations and unbroken efforts, would actually lead to the establishment of the Academy and modern Zagreb University today and would be in charge of the Republic of Croatia. The realization of this idea and this project did not actually occur because the city of Đakovo could not provide the necessary space for the work of this academy unit has already offered and asked the government of the Republic of Croatia to arrange and use the actual space of the former PIK business building Đakovo, which is state-owned. One large space, an arrangement that would cost 10 million kuna, for which the local community does not have the resources to actually free up additional space for the Academy's work. The report also said that the permanent academy's activity is debate and concern about the Croatian language. That debate and concern, by the way, certainly does not contribute to the use of the concept of a single Russian unit that has become modern in the last 5 months. But there's something else I'd like to look back on. Minister Jovanovic abolished the Croatian standard language norm and informed members of the council about it 10 days after the decision. The council president and his deputy were academics Radoslav Katicic and Mislav Jezic. Even unfortunately, he received notice and passed away Tomislav Laden. The members of this council were except for representatives of the HAZU Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Pula, Zadar, Teacher's Academy, or the Faculty of Education in Zagreb, Croatian studies, Matica Hrvatska, Lekographic Institute and the Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics. The composition of the institution was fully representative and represented, in fact, all those relevant to the Croatian language. This Council for the Croatian standard language norm was established for the purpose of systematic professional care for Croatian standard language to discuss current concerns and open issues of Croatian standard language, promotion of Croatian standard language culture and language care in view of the process of integration of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. Acadamik Radoslav Katicic, president of that council founded in 2005, said on the minister's decision that the ministry was not actually in line with the spirit of the Croatian language that advocated the council, that it was a distraction and that it had been disbanded. Prof. Sanda Ham, professor of Croatian language at the University of Osijek, said that the abolition of the only state relevant and professional body that had the systematic care of Croatian language is open to experts, amateurs and politicians and that there is nothing more destructive than when experts are kicked out of the profession and Croatian linguists. It's worth mentioning that a similar council existed in '98. until 2000, but in 2000 it was abolished. It was re-established in 2005 and now, by the arrival of the SDP government again, a second time the Croatian Language Council has been abolished. It's a very interesting phenomenon. Also, when it comes to finance, that is, here is a colleague before me who referred to how HAZU might have to appear on the market. We don't think the HAZU should appear on the market, that HAZU is not an institution that needs to be market-oriented. HAZU has a much more important task for Croatian society and for the Croatian state than to fight on the market and to commercialise or to keep HAZU's scientific and research activity or position on the market. We are sure that the Croatian state has and will always have the current 10m euros or 72m kuna as the annual budget of the HAZU. A few days ago, the Croatian state without a problem raised a 400 million kuna loan for the dubiosis created in HEP in just a few months after the new government took over HEP and inherited it with a billion kuna profits. If there are 49 million kunas of taxpayers' money and state money to cover the debt of a small Croatian bank, which, by the way, guaranteed KONING company owned by the wife Radiir Cacic for loans that this construction company received 2 days before the election of the state-owned Croatian insurance company. If there is money for such investments then surely in the Croatian state budget must be and there will always be money of 72 million kuna for the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9240	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9241	I would correct the false allegations of fellow Djurovic who was not sufficiently informed, first of all what the city of Đakovo is doing on Strossmayer's days and what is the level of that event. Strossmayer's days are the basis of the city of Đakovo and since the first day in close cooperation with the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. This year, the city of Djakovo has held Strossmayer's days at a very high level 10 times since the first days, from the president of the Academy of Supeko Padovina to today's president of the Academy. It's always been at the highest level. So far, more than 16 academics have performed on Strossmayer's day. And his quote was that we should rise to a higher level. I don't know what the higher level is, and I'd like to ask a colleague's evaluation of this sort of thing to check what level it is and what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9242	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, he has the word Mr. Representative Don Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9243	On the occasion of this debate on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts report, only two three notes. The first is that in both the report and the discussion, the main emphasis is on the value of knowledge, I am not against it because I tried to be part of the scientific academic population myself. But what I find extremely important is so-called. intellectual honesty, moral recognition and social sensitivity. We do not lack knowledge, we lack certain modern spiritual values, morals, and ethics in scientific categories. It should be recognizable, honest, and solid because one study I personally participated in when it came to accepting certain modern values. Two categories were negative when it came to interpersonal relations. It is a category of prominent religious and academic population. It surprised me, not as much for the first category as for second, intellectual honesty, moral recognition and social solidarity. We have too many people today with a lot of knowledge, with townsends of the highest towns. But unfortunately, the research, I say, proves that this is where human relations have failed and in a prominent way. We also have eight universities to promote knowledge, and for knowledge I am, but it won't get us out of the crisis. The Academy is just one part of that scientific community, not the only one. I don't mind, and I don't go into the accounts of certain institutions as they spend, but they're all on the state budget, and this House is responsible for how government money is spent by taxpayers who are hard to survive. That's why we need solidarity, intellectual honesty, not just diplomas, titles. So much for this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9244	Thank you very much. In an individual debate further, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9245	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear academic, Dr. Rudan. I will begin this debate with the question of whether the Academy or anyone else in scientific circles will begin by collecting signatures for the Croatian language's right and position as it was with the late Yonke in 1968? In fact, by one decree, I would say a mildly thoughtless gesture was lifted by the Council for the Croatian Standard Language Standard. It is therefore Minister Jovanovic's decision, and according to the Croatian Academy of Science and Art, it is also a duty to preserve and explore Croatian language, or Croatian standard language. Even more a memo on the termination and termination of membership in the Council for the Croatian Standard Language norm was sent to the late academic Tomislav Ladan, who is clearly no longer present. There is so much about those who have sent such a memo and such a decision to the Council for the Croatian Standard Language Standard. As my predecessor said, it happened in 2000. Therefore, the coincidence of coming to the power of the SDP with its coalition partners or history is repeated. The declaration was 68, so 50 years ago and something more, so it looks like we're going to have to re-write the same declaration. Who advises and recommends such decisions that are contrary to both the knowledge and the honesty of those, and the work of those who did, who were in the Council for the Croatian Standard Language norm, and among them clearly academics in this council. I hope that because of the dignity, dignity and respect for these people, Mr. Academyman Radoslav Kratičić and the rest of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts will also give their opinion on this move, regardless of what someone called the opening or non-opening of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts at least their opinion or statement as well as a statement at the verdict of our generals and heroes of the Homeland War Gotovina, Markac and Cermak. There are others, but the Croatian Academy of Science and Art was not manifested about other heroes and generals. When it comes to and when we had here a correction of the incorrect quote on the presentation of my colleague Đurović in connection with the scientific research unit in Djakov, then there was no talk of the activities of the Academy and the lectures held or the days of Strossmayer in Đakov. It was about the scientific research unit that you and I discussed in the past, reading the previous report a year ago, and when I commended or wished that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts finally established its unit in Slavonia or in the heart of Slavonia in the archdiocese seat, in Strossmayer's town, in the city of Djakov. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Is it not about the failure to make such decisions as the decision or decree of Mr Jovanovic to abolish the Council for the Croatian Standard Language norm, so that a newly-sed dictionary from 1960 is established, represented by some of the kind of Kordić, Goldstein, etc. I hope and expect from you in addition to this report which clearly cannot be rejected and which is written and which you have explained very extensively and clearly that the Croatian Academy of Science and Art will know how to respond to such bold and rude provocations towards even the question of Croatian language survival in the Croatian Constitution, which means far-reaching decisions of the Croatian Government or Minister. Therefore, it is clear that the Club of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja will adopt your Report, but we expect action in this regard from you. Thank you very much. So much for this breakup.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9246	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Branko Vukšić. And I'm sorry, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9247	Replic, replica. Dear President, my colleague Grubisic spoke of two things I would like to refer to. It's a reaction to HAZ to the trial in The Hague, and some colleagues have mentioned why not before. It is the duty of the Academy for sure. The Academy must, it is its duty to show itself, agreeing with Mr Grubisic on the abolition of the Croatian language norm. In fact, it is incomprehensible that the ministry has taken that move and many other things are incomprehensible in the procedure itself in which it was done, so we expect the Academy to refer. But I repeat again. There is an important topic on which the Academy closes, on which the Academy closes its eyes and this is a catastrophic economic situation in Croatia. We're a step up to Greek syndrome, and the Academy is silent. Academic Rudan, does she have the right to do that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9248	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9249	Thank you very much, colleague Vuksic. In contrast to our Croatian Academy, the Serbian Academy continues to stand by its memorandum and has not been denied by either the minister or the president of the Serbian state at all. On the contrary, it supports such memos that are to say great Serbian, conquerive, etc. However, the Croatian language will be 24 languages in the European Union. And if we do not have a standard Croatian language, if someone like Professor Katičić or such distinguished experts does not determine that our translators will at all work in the European Parliament or use the Croatian-Serbian language, the newly-Sadic dictionary. Maybe the Academy can't discuss rising ferry prices by 20%. I don't think that's her job. But all that is happening, which is only one small segment of this increase in ferry prices really because there is an Academy and your class in economics might and I support you in issuing a statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9250	Thank you very much. Here's the conclusion of the debate. Thank you all for participating in the special academic Rudan. And I'll see you at 12:00. I didn't see it, nor was it reported to me. But now I've concluded the debate? Again I have to ask everyone by consensus if anyone would mind, only one if it's against me I can't put it on. There isn't? But please, academic Rudan, we have a vote very soon for you to be as brief as possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9251	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, answer all these interesting and extremely important questions will require several hours. But I'll try it all out in a few minutes. I thank both Mrs Spoljar and Mr Vuksic and Mr Mesic and Mr Coleman and Mr Grubisic and Mr Djurović and Mr Ivan Grubisic and Mr Boris Grubisic and the real questions that you have raised are crucial questions. The board well and unanimously assessed the report and I thank the most beautiful members of the board. As for incarceration, not perseverance of criteria, as far as communicating with the people is concerned, trust me that this administration has done at these given moments as much as possible. And I'm proud to have read about it a dozen days ago in an interview with our academic Snotty. I quote: “The current administration of our Academy has shown it is a significantly higher degree of hermeneutic competence.” I am most grateful to Academyman Zmegač and I think this is the best praise I have in my life as part of one team. As for the financing of various projects and the Academy, I am fully pleased that Mr Mesic has raised the issue of financing digitisation. I've made sure that I have all my contracts here based on digitization and I must say that we are grateful to the Ministry of Culture for seizing 80,000 kuna. However, in order to carry out the digitisation as we felt it needed to be implemented in 2011 there were 2 hundred 46 thousand 567 kuna and 5 limes. Therefore, we thank the ministry for 80,000 but the rest of the 296 thousand we spent received partly from the city of Zagreb, and most of all from the very funds of the Academy and the HAZU Foundation. I think you're happy with this answer, because, for example, is not financed at all by the Ministry of Digitalisation of all materials of the Department of History of Croatian Theatres or the Department of History of Croatian Music. As far as the strategy is concerned, believe me, as a young medical student, I've always been taught to distinguish my strategy very well from tactics. And that's what we're trying to do at the academy. The suggestions and suggestions you made are exceptional, but as for example, questions of dispute with the Modern Gallery, we must understand that the Modern Gallery is located in a space owned by the Academy and the Academy does not occur to throw the Modern Gallery out of those spaces. No, but we know very well that it is always necessary to carry out the inventory of what we have. Every year for 19 years, I ran an excellent little Institute of Anthropology and every year was an inventory. Was there an inventory at the Modern Gallery in the last 20, 30 years? I don't know. But there are 1054 paintings owned by the academy. It doesn't occur to us to take these pictures and put them in the basement of the academy, no, but it's normal if they're exposed down there writing property of the HAZU and we need to make an inventory that was actually decided 10 years ago and what the court is now conducting. I'm sorry that we started it really because I think that among normal institutions it can be very easy to do, but it was necessary to run. We've only raised the question of the ownership of one painting, imagine that we've asked a question of 1054 images. And that one picture is pretty expensive, but it's going to show up and hopefully it all exists. As far as having a child in the academy is concerned, that's a very important question. Don't think we're not sensitive to gender issues. When I had the honour of establishing the Institute of Anthropology, 85% of the staff in that institute were employees, and only 15% were men. In the academy, the situation is somewhat different but it's about better than in the Dutch Academy of Science than in the Hungarian Academy of Science, than in the Austrian Academy of Science, and it's even better than in the French Academy of Natural Sciences. It is an honor to tell you that soon and very soon it means 12 June when elected and new members will be a total of 16 academics from 147 academics. As for the co-workers of 16 academics, or members of the co-workers, compared to 84. Believe me, he's trying to do it and it's kind of doing it. It is clear that the question of class for visual art is also being asked. It's been happening over and over again for several years, and we've inherited it. In the last year we asked the question to our individual classes, whether it is necessary to do and what they think about the class for visual art. In the academy there is a class for social sciences where there is both law, and economy, and history, demographics, a whole series of different disciplines, a class for mathematical, physical and chemical sciences, a class for natural sciences, for medical sciences, for philology, for literature, for music arts and music sciences, and for technical sciences. Far more classes have our academy than many other academys in the world and it would be irrational to open another class for visual art, it is the opinion of some of our classes, because the greats of our science and art and even visual arts are already very much working within the frameworks of the Academy. In fact, we know very well that we have, for example, at that academy of ours. Academia Boureka, who is a director and artist, we now have an academic Senkera, we had an academic named Gavela as a correspondence member, we have an academic or a correspondence member, Mrs. Ruža Spiš Baldani. We can't say that the greats of our music, such as Klobučar, such as Dešpalj, such as Ružjak and others, Gavela who was, including Krleža, were all workers and academics who acted within the academy and were dedicated to visual arts. It may be necessary to unite some classes in order to make more objective judgments of the election of new members. What to say about financial planning. We are also trying to keep the academy at the best possible level in these difficult situations economically. This year, 2012, we received 10% less funding. About 80% of the funds come from the state budget, 20% of the assets of the academy itself succeed in its activities in some way covered. I fully agree with a colleague who said that the academy must not show market orientation, because it is nowhere in the world, but we need to draw close to the problems that exist in this country because the problems of this people and the problems of the academy are. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for your cooperation and I would like to say that I would be happy to see you again in a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-01-0.u9252	Thank you too, academic Rudan. I'm closing the debate. We'll be voting on this agenda soon. We move to the 2011 Croatian Academy of Science and Arts report. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2011. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, 124 votes for and 2 abstentions.
