ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. According to the provisions of the Tax Administration Act, the Tax Administration is represented by the Financial Police, the Financial Inspectorate, the Customs Administration and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, one of the Supervisory Services of the Ministry of Finance. However, monitoring the application of the legal rules of effectiveness of all supervisory services at the Ministry of Finance established overlaps in supervisory departments, as well as additional burdens on taxpayers resulting from non-compliance with the exercise of supervision. In order to eliminate the perceived occurrence of overlapping responsibilities between supervisory services at the Ministry of Finance, a major change in the overall structure has begun, among other things under the provisions of the special regulation, by the Financial Police. The delokrug, the assets found, the rights and obligations of the Financial Police as the abolished establishment units of the Ministry of Finance will be deployed within the other supervisory services of the Ministry of Finance. In order to ensure that part of the business is taken over from the Financial Police Department at the same time as the adoption of the Law on the termination of the law on the Financial Police Act is also proposed to adopt the Tax Administration Act. According to the attached proposal of the Tax Administration Act, with the final proposal of the Law, the Tax Administration of the Department of the Financial Police shall, in its part, take over the supervision of the fulfilment of the payment deadlines for the prescribed provisions of the special regulation as well as the tax supervision tasks. Furthermore, the financial police as sole supervisory service were not designed to carry out other binding procedures resulting from the supervisory procedure and the same tasks for the Financial Police were carried out by the Tax Administration, such as enforcement procedures, infringement proceedings in accordance with the provisions laid down now in force of the Tax Administration Act. This legislative proposal is in line with the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the need to rationalise the conduct of operations with state administration bodies, and with the recommendation of certain institutions to remove and overlap the responsibilities between the financial police and other supervisory authorities, as well as the change of the overall structure of the Ministry of Finance that is under way and in the context of which the abolition of the Financial Police is proposed. As regards the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Thus, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism has been prescribed that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is a management organisation within the Ministry of Finance which performs its tasks in order to prevent money laundering and financing of tourism. The proposed Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists aligns the provisions of this Act with the provisions of the Law on the System of State Administration and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering instead of an administrative organisation becomes a founding unit within the Ministry of Finance. It is proposed with the aim of rationalising the number of officials as provided for in Article 41. Article 2 The Law on the State Administration System is governed by the work of an administrative organisation in the ministry by the Assistant Minister. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants has been abolished by the Director, and it is proposed that the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering be managed by the Head of the Office. The Act amending and supplementing the Act on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal for a law. The law on the financial inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia shall be governed by the structure, section, jurisdiction and powers of the financial inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. According to the Financial Inspectorate Act, an administrative organisation in the Ministry of Finance system is managed by the Director. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia aligns the provisions of that law with the provisions of the Law on the System of State Administration, the Act amending and supplementing the Law on State Servants and the Regulation on the principles of the internal establishment of the body of the State administration. The financial inspectorate instead of an administrative organisation becomes a founding unit within the Ministry of Finance. It shall also be proposed to streamline the number of officials, since it shall be subject to the provisions of Article 41. Article 2 The Law on the State Administration System is governed by the work of an administrative organisation in the ministry by the Assistant Minister. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants has abolished the place of director, and it is proposed that the Financial Inspectorate be managed by the Head of the Financial Inspectorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4235	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the clubs first, and first registered on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers, party of work Mr. Representative Vuljanić Nikola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4236	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Three of these laws are technical. The name is changed, the function is moved from one organization to another and so on. The IRS law isn't that guy. It's a new law and he actually prescribes before everything the IRS does and does anything. I don't mean anything by that. He does a lot of data processing work, professional opinions, supervision, cooperation with other public-legal authorities, collects contributions, reports, implements tasks and much more. As he successfully does his basic job, i.e. collecting taxes, it is seen from the fact that we currently have said the minister almost 45 billion kuna of tax debt which is not charged. It's, uh, it's a little bit of a half-state budget. Such a level of tax ejaculation inability to charge whatever the reason is can't be by chance. A little bit wrong, 5%, 10%, 15% by chance. But this level excludes both chance and incompetence. Something like that in a country that doesn't stand financially well that 45 billion kunas stand unpaid, so only 30% of it can be charged for such a situation can only happen on purpose. On purpose for various political reasons. Taxes were charged in some places, they were not charged elsewhere. And now it's really illusory to explain why tax returns aren't going. No one here has chosen us, and no one has asked us to explain to the public why something isn't going. We're all here to make things go away. In this set of laws, the Financial Police and some of their responsibilities are being abolished, probably moving to the IRS, some of them moving on to other bodies under these four laws. However, in addition to the Tax Office for Similar Jobs, one of these laws speaks about this, we also have the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. How do you find some money washed away? Well, by definition, by being clean, that is, the owner of that money can prove that the money has been made legally and that all that is to be paid for during the earning. So, taxes, contributions, everything that's already gone with the money. Who needs to find out, right? Well, no one but the IRS. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering can neither do nor need to be established. The IRS has all the mechanisms, there are people, there's technique and it can figure it out. When it comes to money laundered, it is, of course, money from illegal activities. I don't mean criminal activity on purpose. It's not just drug traffickers. There are also illegal activities, i.e. those who were not paid for what was to be paid. Criminal activity is being caught by the police. Tax administration doesn't catch criminals as a rule. The tax administration can't even appear at the moment of a crime from which a profit is derived. But at another point, it can appear, and that's the moment of spending. We have submitted an amendment to this Tax Administration Act requesting that the tax administration’s authority’s tax administration’s tax administration’s tax administration’s services be placed under control and control of the difference between the increase in the value of the taxpayer and the tax paid in the previous period. Namely, what's going on? We all know dozens and hundreds of cases in this country where people who are practically social cases have nothing to do with their lives. They're driving in new jaguars, massages or the worst-case Porsches. No one's ever asked such a man, sir, and where did you get the money for that Porsche? Well, you're on social income, you're a retired postman, you're unemployed. What's he doing... in the U.S.? [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] The main job of the U.S. Tax Administration is that. If in the morning you buy a car that is above your payment options or above the possibilities you showed by last year's tax pay, the tax collector comes to you and asks you, he doesn't bring evidence, he's not a cop, he's a tax collector, he's asking you to give him evidence that the money you bought that car, and he's too expensive for you that you've legally earned that money. Got from grandma to inheritance, made a financial transaction, earned the lottery anyway, but that you legally earned it. If you are in no condition to do so, then you will, of course, remain without that car and pay the fat fine to the tax administration or the state. So the IRS catches criminals who make black money, those who don't pay taxes, not in making money, but only in spending money where they can. Al Capone killed half of Chicago didn't go to jail because nothing could be proved to him. The moment he cheated on his taxes, he went to Alcatraz for 20 years and died nicely there. Our IRS doesn't do that. So if criminals go through the police's fingers, where do they end up? In fact, they know where they end up, they become respected businessmen. Two more questions about the IRS, which I hope will be answered very soon. The OIB is launched all of us use it for some purposes, when we start using the OIB for tax purposes, when they'll start synchronising the property of the property of the one who's written in the garters at least I know it's not much of it written in the garters, but something is. What's written in the loins with the data available and the IRS to function on. I wonder if it's really impossible in this country for taxpayers to have their own tax officer, a reference officer, someone who will personally follow them and who they will know that this tax reference is following them and that they can't be very valuable because it's known that this man knows his job. The state has to have... in every situation it has to stimulate legal and fair behavior, but it has to have a beating. Without it, there's no law, at least this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4237	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4238	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, deputy minister, director of the IRS, respected colleagues and colleagues. So the HNS Club will support the adoption of all four bill proposals. A clear proposal of the Law on the termination of the Financial Police Act is about new structure, rationalisation. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia is also a matter of structure and rationalisation. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists means that there has been a change in the structure and way of functioning of the state administration and is one of the reform tasks of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What is certainly the majority of citizens of entrepreneurs is a substantial change to the Tax Administration Act. However, these changes have been made in that right in a positive sense because when it comes to the Tax Administration, the most often thinks about how the Tax Administration acts as a single repressive element in the functioning of the state or state finances. In this way, essentially the Tax Administration as the first law to unite all those amendments that have been refined, which is clear and which not only to those who deal with finances, all interested in tax matters opens up the possibility that they can read, read, understand and behave in the future in relation to tax obligations. What matters is that there has been a discrepancy so far over certain provisions that this bill essentially recognises and resolves in one document. What is important for the Tax Administration as well as for the work of general public administration, public companies, and that is the policy of this coalition, the policy of the CNS, the policy of the Government, which is rationalisation, efficiency, the definition of priorities. It's been implemented in this law. In this way, we get both efficiency and transparency, plus what we have to do in order for the Tax Administration to be both an informational absolute and software and hardware covered so that this famous OIB can succeed in the right function in which the Tax Administration and under this law would be key, in cooperation with all other government institutions to function and implement all those projects and programmes, but also solve all those proposals or complaints from citizens and entrepreneurs effectively and quickly. Because today, efficiency, rationality and speed are crucial in the Republic of Croatia to address this economic crisis, and surely the Tax Administration is one of the essential elements, which must be those who must not stop what the government is carrying out. And it is also important to reduce the burden of taxpayers through this law because the present approach through non-compliance has been burdened or prevented from realising certain things. And finally, what is important is that we also have innovations, which is the law defines that the Tax Administration prepares and makes drafts, drafts of laws and other regulations regarding taxes and contributions, and which corresponds to the practical state so far, so far as the Tax Administration needs to react to those living dictionaries and problems of everyday life, to propose to this High House, or to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that all those processes that are being observed, and that they need to change, as quickly and more quickly as possible, both in terms of flow and information, as well as solving the problem. And, of course, one of the important things, that the IRS is overseeing entrepreneurs and public rights persons over the implementation of the law on the deadlines for meeting monetary obligations, which is a novelty in relation to the situation so far. It is extremely good that the responsibility of tax workers in this law is provided for both way of controlling and keeping secrets, thus avoiding abuses. Thank you very much. I repeat, the Croatian People's Party will support the package of these four laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4239	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4240	Since this is a package of laws, the most extensive in this package is certainly the Tax Administration Act. We've had the Tax Administration Act before. As stated in the argument, this law creates a new law to make it clearer and more transparent although there are no major changes to the previous law other than amendments to the tax administration management and, in part, in the importance and ranking of district offices in the internal structure. However, it is precisely the fact that in the vast majority of its content this law is identical to the previous Tax Administration Act. I wanted to speak a few words to this occasion because, in our opinion, when this law was already amended, it was a pretty good opportunity to establish or in a certain way possible and strengthen some aspects of the work of the Tax Administration, which on the other hand are reflected in both the economy and the relationship between the Tax Administration and the economy. One of the biggest remarks I'd like to make is an observation that can be heard on the part of the economy on the part of the IRS, which is the issue of its uniform treatment. Since it is organised in a way that, given that the regional offices are distributed at the level of all Croatia, there are examples and observations and demands of the economy to improve the internal mechanisms of uniformity of work and the conduct of all parts of the Tax Administration. Of course, this may seem internal mechanisms, but precisely since this section of the IRS work is very important and in what we call investment barriers and in what we call improving competitiveness, we believe that this was a good opportunity for this law to establish and strengthen this fundamental principle, which is that the IRS is acting unanimously in every case and in any case, regardless of whether it is happening in Dubrovnik, Rijeka or Osijek. It's not the IRS itself who's facing such a problem. Such a problem is faced by every major organization. Tax administration is a large organization both in terms and in comparison with both the private sector and our largest companies. So we believe that the damage, when this law is already proposed here and the government has spent a lot of words arguing that it will improve the efficiency and quality of the work of all state services, that this law did not take advantage of that direction. On the other hand, this law in Article 21 also has an interesting quality. In fact, Article 21 states that the IRS officer is required to perform official duties and longer than full-time if necessary for the sake of successful and timely performance of the job. So the law states that tax administration officers are required to work overtime. In the budget debate, we heard that overtime in the state service will be sanctioned, reduced to ensure savings, and this is exactly one small example of why we were skeptical of the government's arguments because we have today a law that contains this article. It was also contained by an old law that would be put out of force. But the point is that the law prescribes the obligation of an officer to work overtime, on the other hand it announces that this overtime will be impossible, so it will not be paid. These are two things in contrast, and in contrast, what we were talking about yesterday was the possibility that this is exactly how savings will be realised because simply law enforcement officers are forced to work overtime, and then I think it must be paid anyway. On the other hand, the Financial Police and part of the functions of the Financial Police are being transferred to the IRS. What is not clear here, if the Financial Police are abolished, is a matter of supervision of international tax and criminal fraud and circular fraud on the burden of the European Union funds. These jobs have been assigned to the Financial Police in the process of harmonising with European Union legislation. I failed to recognize in this law that these transactions of the Financial Police are being transferred to the IRS, so it turns out there will be no organisational unit to do these jobs. So I'm asking if the adoption of this Act, or by abolishing the Financial Police, once again leads to a situation to deviate from some of the obligations that have been made in the process of harmonisation. I also find the lack of this law in saying nothing about how the IRS officers participate in evidence actions, the evidence procedures conducted by the State's Attorney's Office. And that was regulated by the Financial Police Act. For the Financial Police, it is no longer here, and it is an important segment of the work of the IRS. And finally, as far as amending the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is concerned, there is a reason why the Money Prevention Office was organised as a administrative organisation. This meant that the Office for the Prevention of Money was directly subordinated to the Minister as well as to some other establishment units in the Ministry of Finance for the specificity and importance of the operations they perform. This is exactly the kind of work done by the Office for the Prevention of Money, the specific tasks of supervision of financial flows, the supervision of the implementation of the act on the prevention of terrorist financing, which requires adequate independence and the appropriate organisational position of this Office within the Ministry, which is explained by the rationalisation of personnel as it can, and I would like to warn again in this place, can cause problems and issues in the context of membership in the European Union. Because in the context of international cooperation and the fight against money laundering and the fight against terrorism, just like this, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering had its place. We believe, therefore, that although these laws are interpreted here as laws of technical and organisational character, they have failed to show on the one hand what the Government is announcing is a better, more efficient and more efficient work of state bodies, because there are no amendments in these laws that would refer to this and on the other hand changes that could harm and may be contrary to the obligations undertaken in the negotiation process and the obligations essential for effective participation in the membership of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4241	Thank you very much. Here comes Mr. Deputy Minister Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4242	Just for a little while. So today's before you means more about the technical nature of changing these laws. What I'd like to say is, what you've actually noticed is that you were the head of that organization that didn't become unequivocal. So whether we write it in law or not, that's what we have to do on the ground. What we're not satisfied with, means in these months where we've come from, we've seen the work of the IRS and these debts that we actually have, what they've come into, and what we've talked about. Our mission is actually and there's the main intensity actually is to bring to order that institution, actually what you said and I'm glad that you noticed that you became one, that there was no uniformity, so what you noticed now I think you should notice before and react when you were able to correct it. So whatever it is, it means we're going to open the IRS to the citizens and all the problems that both citizens and entrepreneurs face are actually trying to solve in walking. We know that this is a process that is going on, and I hope that what you have now noticed that you will help us in all these efforts to actually correct it. And about these removals, it means technical problems for us to take someone's independence. There's no intention of taking anyone's independence at all. So people will do their job like they've done before. So independent and without any interference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4243	Thank you very much. We have a correction of the incorrect allegations by two MPs, i.e. first the representative of Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4244	Well, it's an incorrect allegation of conduct in the field. In order to allow uniform treatment on the ground, it must be prescribed, because it is the property of large organisations not to come, that it does not come in itself. And if you can't answer me any better and you can't think of anything better than that I should have done it then you know very well how much the former director of the IRS has invested with me in improving the work of the IRS.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4245	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4246	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that these amendments to the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Office on the State Inspectorate will not reduce their independence and addiction for the simple reason that, by a new regulation, their financial status, therefore, of the leaders, is reduced by a haughty. Because they practically from the director's position are now assistants virtually belonging to an ordinary clerk and surely for two very responsible services you won't be able to get leaders for such a salary. As soon as the pay is low, as soon as they are not directly responsible to the minister, they lose their independence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4247	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4248	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy and Assistant Minister. The financials of colleagues and fellow MPs. Here are 4 united laws, so the proposal of the Tax Administration Act, then the proposal of the Financial Position Act or the termination of the Financial Police Act, other words on the abolition of the Financial Police and the accession to the Ministry, then the draft Law amending the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism with the Final Proposals of the Law are before us. It would appear that these are technical laws, legal proposals that regulate this matter primarily from tax and financial policy, discipline, financial discipline that should finally be better or prevail in Croatian society and the Croatian state. So let's go ahead with the proposal for a law on the termination of the Financial Police Act, so on the abolition of the Financial Police and the fact that it is, in the future, officials who are employed civil servants are part of the IRS. There are no additional costs related to the application of this legislative proposal, so this law is a clean technique. The second law is much more important, and it's about the Tax Administration Act. It is true that there is in practice a model of unequivocal approach and access to tax debtors and implementation of tax policy. There is no mention of this, but we must say that, in the act, the discretionary right of individual directors, presidents or head of tax offices offices offices was either regional or others, and in connection with the postponement of the payment of tax obligations, mainly in the case of legal persons. If it's a physical person, then there's no delay. I didn't hear her. Every natural person gets their turn very quickly in sanctions on any tax debt. But when it comes to some legal persons, then there really exist and they're at work so-called. discretion that is clearly not defined in these legal provisions either. Therefore, it should be evened out as someone said, that there is a uniform approach and action, and this should be done in order to finally overcome one uniformity, equality in fulfilling tax obligations. As a result, the OIB was introduced, which is unfortunately not complete, and it has not fully implemented what we expected from it, and especially when importing all data that can be extracted and obtained from it, so that the Tax Administration can then have full insight into the assets and incomes of each and every natural and legal person in the Republic of Croatia. If this bill is finally going to make it happen, I'd like it to be so. On page 2. 8 when it comes to the establishment of the Tax Administration and when it is said that there is a central office, then the district offices and the tax offices of the Tax Administration, then they are classified into certain categories. Therefore, the area offices are classified as district offices in three categories. The area office of the first category exists in the City of Zagreb. The area office of the second category is Split District Office, Rijeka District Office, Pazin District Office and Osijek District Office. In view of the future and traditional administrative regional structure of Croatia, given that both Dalmatia and Slavonia and Baranja have 800 to 900 thousand inhabitants, and we have nothing against the field office in Pazin, so we are not against, but Rijeka and Pazin are as far as 60 km away as I don't know how much, I don't often go in that direction, so the HDSSB will propose to Zadar and Slavonski Brod, which I think is too much and may be and will be functional for the regional offices of other categories than Split, Rijeka, Pazin and Osijek. The other district offices are so-called. third category offices that exist in other counties in the Republic of Croatia. With these remarks I have to notice one let me say in Article 20, in particular this applies to him. Well, 1st paragraph and 3rd repeatedly repeats the contribution "with finished". So I'd like to ask whoever writes these texts to put it "with done" because with the front z, w, h, h, I'm going to turn into a, as a contribution, grammatically speaking as a contribution, a grammatical contribution. Well, please make it right so we don't get this kind of stuff, we don't get the materials on the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4249	It's actually a palaceization and sybilarization.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4250	It's neither. The palaceization is when k,g,h converts to c,g,h, and sybilarization k,g,h to c,z,s. And this is neither. There you go, Mr. President. Now there's one more thing. Article 11 of the same legislative proposal therefore states: The Director of the Tax Administration may have two deputy directors. So what it can do, is it law or this is a colloquium, so it can't or may not have to. Why doesn't he write down two deputy directors or he's got one or he's got none, but he can have two. Is this left on the director's discretional decision again, whether it's an old thing of similarity again, and you will determine one, two, if you need two, etc. I'm just wondering why it doesn't say "decidedly clear" and there's two deputies out loud or there's one deputy, but it can have two. Because of the word verb can or can. My colleague’s overtime was discussed by her coworker, so I would not discuss the problem that was announced as a cutting of overtime, and the article mentions this overtime if the superior ordered the clerk to work overtime on it, so I would not discuss it specifically. In the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, it is simply a replacement of words the director is talking about in the chair. So we've spent a lot of paper so the legal proposal has five pages, this time 151 MP it's 760 pages and so on just to change the name of the former director's nomination to head office and nothing more. So that bill contains nothing more, but we've spent a lot of paper. The Law amending the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, with the final proposal for a law, I have no real comment except that in the same place when it comes to the Director of the Financial Inspectorate, instead of using the words, the Director is now setting up the President, which is the same thing as this recently commented Law on the prevention of money laundering and the prevention of terrorism. The HDSB club will consider adopting or voting for this law by the time the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4251	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club, 15 minutes of time is shared by Mr. MP, who is the first in line, Michael Zmajlović, and behind him, Mr. Representative Josip Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4252	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the honourable MPs and MPs. It is good that these four draft laws are discussed in a united debate, given that they are so closely linked. At this time, as the president announced, we'll talk to a colleague and I on behalf of the club. I will refer to the first two draft laws on the agenda, the draft law on the termination of the Financial Police Act and the Proposal for a new Tax Administration Act. So it's a law that abolishs the Financial Police as a founding unit of the Ministry of Finance, and will deploy its share of assets, assets, rights and obligations amongst other supervisory services of the Ministry of Finance and thus the IRS. In order to ensure the takeover of part of the activities of the Financial Police, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Finance, has proposed a new Tax Administration Act. Monitoring the work of supervisory services at the Ministry of Finance has seen certain overlaps in their jurisdiction, resulting in non-compliance in the exercise of supervision. Jobs overlapped, i.e. They overlap between the Financial Police, the IRS, the Customs Administration and the Financial Inspectorate. In other words, certain services worked independently with the same or similar powers. As early as the 5th meeting of the Croatian Parliament in 2004, when the Financial Police Act was passed, the SDP warned of the fact that in part a parallel system would be created instead of strengthening the IRS that would become more motivated and responsible. In addition to these irrationalities and a large number of employees, such an organisational model also had negative consequences for taxpayers themselves, which was evident in the frequent arrivals of inspections on the same ground, which gave different solutions on the ground, which caused confusion and dissatisfaction. The problem was also that the Financial Police as a sole supervisory service was not designed to carry out other binding procedures resulting from the supervisory procedure, so these transactions were carried out by the IRS. That's where I think of the procedures of conduct and misdemeanor. That is why it is necessary to transfer the affairs of the Financial Police to the Tax Administration, but also partly to some others, the Customs Administration and the Special Authority for Control and Audit. The proposal for a law on the termination of the Financial Police Act also prescribes a procedure relating to civil servants and subsistence persons in a working relationship with the Financial Police, which will be deployed in the Ministry of Finance until the adoption of the Internal Order Regulation. State officials who, after the adoption of the Internal Order Regulation, cannot be deployed, will be made available to the Government of the Republic of Croatia if there are no vacancies for which they meet the professional and other conditions for the schedule. As the minister himself or the deputy minister has announced, most people will move into existing organisational units in the Ministry of Finance that do not have enough people to carry out their duties under their jurisdiction. And the ministry heard we were having intensive talks with union organisations on this matter. Therefore, the reasons for repealing the Financial Police Act are clear – increasing the efficiency and efficiency of the work of supervisory services at the Ministry of Finance, which, by definition, results in savings and thought-out spending of taxpayers' money. The Government of the Republic of Croatia hereby implements its part of the programme concerning the need to streamline and carry out operations in state administration bodies and part of a major change in the overall structure currently being implemented in the Ministry of Finance. As far as the IRS bill is concerned, I have already mentioned the importance of its adoption. In much of its part, it refers to organisational changes. In addition to the large number of organisational and other changes that took place in the Tax Administration, the harmonisation of the law with certain amendments, the abolition of the Financial Police and the takeover of certain transactions due to certain changes between the Tax Administration and the special administration in the supervision and audit of the adoption of the Tax Administration Act is also important for the protection of budget revenues. The Ministry of Finance will carry out its basic activities more efficiently and openly. We believe that this will eventually create greater trust between citizens and the state, i.e. tax obligations and the Tax Administration. According to the proposal of the Tax Administration Act, the Tax Administration of the Department of the Financial Police in the IRS section is taking over the supervision of the compliance of payment deadlines with the prescribed provisions of the special regulation as well as tax supervision tasks. I will not now quote all the newspapers in this proposal in relation to the existing law, but I do need to highlight the most important ones. In the section relating to the IRS section, the novelty relative to the now applicable law is that it states that the IRS is preparing, drawing up drafts, drafts of laws and other rules relating to taxes and contributions. And that's rational because they'll know better than them the situation on the ground and the state of things. A significant novelty in the IRS section is also the regulation of the supervision of entrepreneurs and public rights persons of the implementation of the Law on the deadlines for the fulfilment of monetary obligations, which is the job of the Financial Police. The tax administration shall also carry out tasks relating to the determination and award of a personal identification number, issue of a certificate of personal identification number, record keeping and other. However, Articles 31 to 34. It contains very important provisions relating to cooperation and data exchange between the IRS and other bodies, and this is extremely good that it is defined by law. The tax administration shall cooperate with which bodies to carry out operations in its own part and in greater detail shall determine public-legislative bodies and means of cooperation in order to monitor the regularity, determine the tax base and fulfil the tax obligations. The availability of data contained in the personal identification numbers will enable the conclusion of the Data Exchange Protocol and the establishment of an electronic data access system, and it is prescribed by the Tax Administration authorities to allow that access. In order to implement these two laws, there is no need to provide additional resources as it is an extension of the IRS area by taking over part of the transactions from the Financial Police Department that are being abolished and more precisely defining certain issues. There's no new costs. The adoption of these laws by emergency procedure is necessary in order not to delay the activities of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administrations due to the repeal of the Financial Police Act and to create preconditions for the implementation of the new internal establishment of the Ministry. The SDP advocates' club believes that the proposed Tax Administration Act will be fully systematically and transparently regulated by the Part-Corruption and Construction of the Tax Administration in order to ensure the rationalisation of the conduct of transactions within the Tax Administration and to improve the implementation of certain tasks on the ground by taxpayers. This is exactly the kind of bill that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is focusing on addressing specific problems. And that is why the SDP Club will support the adoption of this package of laws, and the other two laws will be spoken of by counterpart Bencic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4253	Here you go. Mr. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4254	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In this part of the debate, I decided a little bit the same, I see that my predecessors are a little concerned about starting the technical problems of these laws. This is the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money and Financing of Terrorism, i.e. the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia. Here when it comes to technology, normally, that everyone, the new government wants to do a little bit, or the ministry, that they can do what they want to do, and that they want to do it means everything they promised to do, let's do it before the election. It's true and I agree with Mr. Lesar that it's more or less all technical, but part of me has intrigued me. In the part of the amendment to the Act amending and supplementing the Financial Inspectorate Act, there were more or less amendments in Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. I think it's usually when new laws are written, or when changes to the law are implemented that the laws should be designed to be as short as possible, as precise as possible, as simple as possible. And the part that does not therefore fall within the law, for example, such as the structure and the way in which it is managed, should actually be determined by the rules, or regulations. But probably because of the urgency of the procedure, it couldn't have happened this time. But here is my proposal to the Deputy Minister, yes, so that the laws are passed as short as possible, as concisely as possible, and through regulations and regulations, then let the part that needs to be clarified be regulated. In this part of whether, for example, a specific Financial Inspectorate or the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering will lose some of its independence if, instead of an administrative organisation, it becomes a structural unit, I think my predecessor Mrs. Dalic said well could, but she doesn't have to. So give it the same little bit for the future, and let's see what it brings. I think that and I welcome such a way of working primarily because Minister Linic promised, therefore saving at all levels and increased control not only in his ministries where he personally tasked ministers, but also in view of his work cycle and slightly wider. Because yesterday's key question we talked a lot about how to keep the budget. So all of these, the IRS is therefore this Financial Inspectorate, the Money Prevention Office is one of the levers in which to keep the budget on both the income and the expenditure side. And normally, it's all under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. If now the head of the office, and the former director has the right salary, I think it was the same question, here's what I'm going to take advantage of. I worked 11 years at the IRS and I can say I didn't have the best pay but I didn't have the worst salary. That part will probably be regulated by the job name regulation and the job complexity coefficients, and I don't believe that it will be such a small salary that we won't be able to find out who's going to do the job at some point. Normally I say again allow once again a representative of the Government, or a minister himself, to arrange for himself to arrange the services or inspections that he thinks will work best and time will show whether he is right. I repeat, once again, the SDP Club will vote for such amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4255	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4256	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. These laws, which have already been mentioned in terms of structure, have changed in some parts of the ministry, in certain administrations or in the office of so far. I will not spend my time in that organization, but we feel that it will certainly contribute to better and better efficiency as such. But these four laws that speak of the Tax Administration, which talk about so far about amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Rights, the abolition of the Financial Police and the amendments and additions to the Law on the Financial Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, I think they are key in the fight against corruption in the fight not only for income but also for the fight for justice in Croatia. In fact, these laws speak not only how to fill the budget but also how to gain citizens' trust. Maybe it's a little weird how these topics are in things like this that are purely financial. That's exactly why. If there are any institutions in the state I will not mention at all the police because it does not even get into it, but just the Financial Police, the Tax Administration, the Inspectorate and the Office for the Prevention of Money in a slightly more indirect way were directly in the function of a corrupt policy which our country, according to the Adriatic Institute, has cost that power by its way of ruling over minus, is missing over a billion dollars. These are disturbing things. We have to open the papers if there's anything to be forgiven for, and who these institutions have for no reason and whose families they seduced and dressed in black. It's not a secret, it's being revealed today by many of our domestic courts, it's been written a lot, and it's been talked about by individuals who were later dismayed by ridicule and what they're talking about. As it came to them as it was sought through their companies, money, and if they refused, then the Financial Police, the IRS, and others would appear. It is therefore very important for these institutions to gain people's trust. If they get people's trust, then we can say that we have succeeded, that people have started to gain confidence in institutions, that taxes must be paid by everyone but that they must primarily pay taxes to the highest taxpayers. I think that this is a key thing and that these institutions should be and should stop being a tool in the hands of politics or that is even worse for political dealings with non-eminents, but also the way money was being raised. It's something to really worry about what kind of country we've been living in. My neighbors, I have two neighbors whose Ministry of Finance for a minor debt took away a house that belonged not only to them but to their fathers or grandfathers. And on the other hand, this alarming debt left by which state and government didn't care to charge, so it wasn't here that others spoke on behalf of the club especially when they said it wasn't about mere failures, but it was about a premeditated act that we would do and who they were and who they were, who they should peel off and take off their skin and who they should forgive. Is it an earthquake thing I ask you to through the Ministry of Finance that already when the claims of God's courts are out of date, it's a proposal for an execution. Well, that's a proposal for a prosecution, not a proposal for an execution. Where does the cheeks come from to send suggestions for the execution of outdated claims and who's to blame for it? And on the other hand, I repeat, that kid didn't even say goodbye to the kuna. Especially when we're talking about this right now, there's a big moaning about this law on the prevention of money laundering as the office disappears, that the new structure will not guarantee independence more efficiency, etc. So please ask the public if they've ever heard of that office and where it's settled, I don't think most of you know where that famous money laundering office is. He hid himself, and no one knows anything about him far from fulfilling such a role. I've been here for years asking a question, who bought the old Zadar port? About this, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering said nothing, and when I asked the opposition's representative questions were insults, something similar was received by my colleague Jurjevic when he asked the former prime minister where the money from Brodosplit was. Obviously, they were real questions, but now the public is looking for the right answers to that. Here, by supporting this bill, I think it's not only a problem in this form, but in all these tasks, I think it's a great task in this segment, especially in this segment, to move away from any political arbitration, and then to start charging first of all from the biggest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4257	Thank you, too. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations by Mr. Ivan Shuker's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4258	Thank you very much. Well, counterpart Anticevic has repeatedly been repeating untrue in her attacks on the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. That's how she said today that no one knows what she's doing or where he's staying. counterpart Anticevic had the opportunity to submit a report to the National Council on Combating Corruption and when the head of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering submitted a report she was a member of the council, she could ask a question. However, everyone was very pleased with the report and with what was presented. However, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is doing such a job that certain things cannot be publicly spoken, but it is the service of certain services in this country and you can check it in these services but it is not good to accuse people of something that simply does not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4259	Thank you. In an individual debate further, Mr. Representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4260	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, honourable government representatives, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. So in 2010, the World Bank survey showed that the grey economy in Croatia amounts to as much as 35% of GDP, i.e. about 120 billion kuna. If we stick to more conservative indicators, then there's about 15% of our activity in the gray, and that's still about 50 billion kuna somewhere. With an average burden of 40%, it turns out that we lose at least 20 billion kuna a year, which is money that could be very well used to build new kindergartens, rebuild schools and hospitals, but more importantly, to reduce the burden on citizens who work and pay taxes. The other countries of Europe we often compare with have double the levels of the grey economy so that we are at the very bottom of this moment, alongside Albania and Bulgaria. By reducing the entrepreneurial risk and building a stable tax system with as low tax and regulatory burdens as possible, Croatia could drastically reduce the grey economy rate. As far as the Financial Police are concerned, in 2010 the entire Financial Police carried out only 62 supervisions throughout Croatia in the first 6 months. These supervisions have identified the tax evasion of income of 89 million kuna, and found a deficit in the accounting contributions for the financing of compulsory insurance of nearly 12 million kuna. Experts claim that the actual figure is hundreds of times larger. However, only 5 criminal applications, 5 indictments, and 2 temporary bans to carry out activities have been issued. And here's a reason for a good and well-founded institution, clearly with a proper dose of social consideration for the people who worked in that institution and whose ineffectiveness is not their fault, but those who created the system themselves. Following legal regulations and competences, the government has found that the transactions of the Financial Police, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration and the Financial Inspectorate match. In addition to irrationality and a large number of employees, a burden is created on taxpayers as well as doubt and dissatisfaction. That's why the Financial Police will be doing the IRS, part of it will be delegated to customs, and part to special administrations of the ministry. The goal is to protect the budget and be more efficient. Those are Minister Linic's words, and I have no reason not to trust them here. On the other hand, the new Tax Administration Act is not just a consolidated text of previous laws. This proposal for a law is managed by several key strategic provisions and operationalises what is already in the Tax Administration Strategy for the period 2011-2015. In the first instance, it seeks to introduce order in the system of supervision and collection of tax duties and, in that sense, complements the space that appears by the adoption of the draft law on the termination of the Financial Police Act. It is also more difficult to improve the efficiency of the Tax Administration apparatus itself, but also to facilitate the enforcement of tax obligations by improving services to taxpayers. A more difficult and effective solution to the problem of non-execution of tax obligations, which the minister also spoke of. We are aware that this is one of the major problems of Croatian society right now and we are aware that this problem, as someone said before me in the debate, weighs about 45 billion kuna. Also in power or more precisely the obligation of the Tax Administration itself is given to prepare and develop draft draft laws and other rules relating to taxes and contribute perfectly logically, and what the Tax Administration has been doing in practice and so far. The novelty is also the structure of the district offices in three categories, which in my opinion is also logical and consistent with the scope and complexity of the businesses carried out by individual district offices. So Zagreb area office in the first category, then Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Pazin second category and everyone else in the third. It is also precise to determine the part-time work of the Tax Administration, without overlapping this time with other institutions in charge. I believe that such a proposal for a tax administration law can contribute greatly to its efficiency and the introduction of order in the very collection of tax obligations, but also to the repression of the grey economy as well as corruption. That's why my vote will surely go to support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4261	Thank you very much. It's two replicas. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4262	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree that the gray economy is one of the problems of Croatian society. In this white economy, however, we have a far greater problem. It's a huge tax debt that hasn't been charged to this day. Of this tax debt, not that two or three kindergartens or two or three hospitals could be made, but that is almost half the budget of the Republic of Croatia with this deficit of 9.9 billion kuna for 2012. But the fact is that, for example, when you ask the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration, you cannot get the details of who is in charge in the Republic of Croatia to Croatia. At the same time, a big debate is being held in public on the publication of the Croatian defenders' register. So I invite you to give that information regardless, change the law, and that information can't be kept secret. Because if, through political likeness, someone has remained tens of millions of kuna owed to this country, these citizens, this worker, then his name should be written on the record by name and last name, and he has to pay that debt regardless of whether he wants to extend it for 30 or 36 months. And the IRS should stop being a short octopus who will charge the fine to that grandmother at the market or market when she gets caught selling a pack of cigarettes from Bosnia and Herzegovina or eggs that have no declaration. Then we come to a real and effective tax system. And about whether someone's working in the joint, someone changed a light bulb or fixed a car, that's a minor problem. This country's biggest problem is tax debt, a debt that hasn't been charged because someone was politically similar. Not because he had blue eyes or black hair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4263	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Representative Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4264	Dear President, esteemed colleague. So here's what I can even say is that the good part of this is okay with me. However, in my presentation, I stressed the very tax debt of 45 billion kuna as one of the biggest weaknesses of today's Croatian society, as one of the major weaknesses in the budget. And as for this other part, so around the grandmothers on the payroll whether to charge them or to charge large economic operators. Well, I think Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic has expressed that attitude, and I fully support it. So, first of all, I'm about to charge a large one, to introduce order, not to have political similarities in tax collection, but to be as it is, as the figures say. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4265	Thank you very much. Replica is also Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4266	Here, colleague Vinkovic, you've noticed well, so you've actually taken some of my replica from me. In fact, here a year ago I asked the Minister at the time to tell me how many media moguls that we say in Croatian frameworks owe to the Tax Administration, and girls information like the DORH and the IRS, is that it's hundreds of millions of kunas. I received a written reply that this information cannot be obtained as much as that owner of that large media house, a magnet so-called or tycoon as he owes. As long as that's the case, it's gonna be a tax debt and a bigger one. As long as it's so-called. Discretion guaranteed the inability to obtain such data, I fear that this 45 billion tax debt, and another 9 billion concessions will not laugh at the fact that counterpart Vinkovic said that it is almost half of Croatia's budget a year when these concessions are summed up. But when it comes to a natural person, a small person, a citizen, then for 35 lip you will have a problem and process and tighten interest and warnings etc. That's how it all works out here. Will it change anything? I'd love to. I'm in good faith, but we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4267	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4268	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed representative. So here we go, I said it the first time, and now I'm gonna do it again. I'm in favour of a situation to be charged with based figures. So, whether you're big, you're small. It is clear that the great and in my nature is also in the nature of my party that in the first place we have social consideration and that in a different way we place ourselves compared to large economic operators, compared to social problems. So, I believe, I firmly believe, you said you were convinced, and I really believe that this government is really going to change that picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4269	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Ivan Klarin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4270	Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will also talk about the Financial Police and something about abolishing the Financial Police, as well as tax evasion, as did my colleague Vidovic. According to the provisions of the Financial Police Act, the very task of the Financial Police is financial supervision in order to strengthen the financial discipline of budgetary debtors, to prevent the avoidance of taxpayers' payments in order to achieve budgetary income, and according to the law, the Financial Police are one of the supervisory services of the Ministry of Finance. And today it's on the agenda to abolish the Financial Police, so I can ask four questions. First why? Second, who's going to be a financial officer now? Third, what was the effect of the Financial Police? And fourth, will tomorrow's tax evasion be bigger than yesterday? I think it's hard, and this leads to the conclusion that the Financial Police didn't do their job, didn't stop the gray economy, didn't stop tax evasion. Unfortunately, I must conclude that tax evasion in the Republic of Croatia is never at a higher level, and I ask the question why it is so. Maybe because someone, and that someone can be just the system didn't do their job. So, the time has come for someone in this country to finally start conflicting. The time has come for someone in this country to declare war on tax evasion. I know there's gonna be a lot of battles, but I'm sure there's gonna be a war, that's all. To save the country, war must be won. I am sure that this government and this ministry will meet this very important obstacle to the functioning of our country by the end of, definitely, the time has matured in accordance with the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the need to rationalise the operation of the state administration bodies, and the recommendations of international institutions to remove overlapping responsibilities between the Financial Police and other supervisory authorities. I am pleased with the announcements that there is an extensive change in the entire organisation of the Ministry of Finance, which will also address this issue, and at least part of the grey economy will be contained. How many places in the Republic of Croatia have we not received an account today, and I must conclude that the tax morality in the Republic of Croatia is at the lowest level. Here I will quote from one of our daily newspapers "that in Croatia the tax is being swept away from the services of the consumption of love to the haircut haircut". Experts warn that our tax system is such that if everything in the country applied, only a small part of the craftsmen would survive and that craftsmen were unfortunately forced to do tax evasion. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance must take into account the discharge of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, which has already been initiated in the second month of this government, and as regards the amendment of a series of tax laws on the abolition of parafiscal burdens, further. The leaders of the Institute and public finances propose more efficient and detecting and punishing tax evasion, and one of the more important measures is so called. Tax accounts and whose introduction was announced by Mr. Linic, our finance minister. The financial police, the financial inspectorate, the IRS, the IRS, the Customs Administration, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the State Inspectorate are the institutions in this country responsible for the control of the gray economy. The data that concerns is that the average supervision of the Financial Police on an annual basis was only 100 supervisions. This way of thinking in Croatia would quickly come into the situation of Greece where it is taken from the state indefinitely and nothing or almost anything returns to the state register. There's one statement from our Nobel laureate, Ivo Andric, who said, "Every year in these rooms, you've got to shut up, the fool's talking, and the fucker's getting rich." The time has come for us to put a stop to various fuckers in this country to be the smart guy who pays the tax, and the stupid one who doesn't pay it, and it can't be the opposite of what it's been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4271	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the light of these legal proposals, they are said to be brought here to be proposed for compliance with the State Administration System Act. I hope that's not the only reason and the main reason. The main reason must be to increase tax discipline. So in a different way to organise control over the payment of the cut and reduce that tax ejaculation which is now about to be heard by almost half of the budget. By how much this government will succeed and be better at tax collection, the citizens will also assess. If everything stays the way it was, huh, the government can't count on a better grade. Therefore, it is the task of the Ministry of Finance. I'm not a tax expert and I don't know if and how much these laws will contribute to financial discipline, but that a better tax charge is needed because the losses are huge, it's clear and small children. At the time of that government from 2000 to 2003 Racan’s governments also had a number of tax reliefs. Tax relief is a good instrument for better tax collection. Because when I have a tax relief when a cost is recognised to me as a relief, then I'm certainly trying to get an account for that expense, then I won't agree to some service done without a black account because I won't be able to make my tax deduction, so it's in my interest as a taxpayer to hire those who do business legally. So now if one tax relief system is introduced, and it existed until 2003, and later all these tax reliefs were abolished then what happened, here's the increased tax avoidance. Avoiding tax payments isn't just a state scam. It is a fraud of society, a fraud of the community or if you want to be completely populist to express the fraud of the people in Croatia by the fraud of the Croatian people. If tax is not paid then there is not enough money for kindergartens, there is not enough money for schools, there is not enough money for health care, there is not enough money for pensions, there is not enough money for the citizens of this country, for the members of that Croatian people we swear or that people are wrong about. What's the profit you don't pay taxes on? Well, it's not just drugs, it's not just a pack of cigarettes that someone mentioned there. It's every one she gets is all that money laundering, every one that gets in some bag some amount of money transferred from one place to another. And the one who brought the bag and the one who took the bag and put it in the safe was deceived by the Croatian people. And we must say this openly to that same Croatian people so that they know when to play anthem and when to hold their hands on the heart of the people if they carry a bag in one hand and the other is placed on their hearts during the intonation of the anthem. My colleague Vuljanic spoke very well of cost control. I'm not a tax expert, but as explained to me in some countries, that's how it works. So, you're not controlled whether you've paid the tax or not, but when there's a big expense, knock, knock, knock, here's a strong tax on the door. Tell me how much you paid the tax or how much you earned to afford such a expense. So control occurs at a time when money is spent more. That should serve the OIB. The introduction of the OIB has spent a lot of money but we have an OIB that is out of our hands. And I wonder why he's not in office? Why is he two years or three years old, and he could already be in office and could be serving to control someone's property. And then you ask him, listen, if you have so many watches and so many pictures, so let's see how much taxes you've paid all these years, could you make it? If you are, fine. It's all right. And if you didn't, first you have to pay the tax on that difference, and second, it just has to be done by someone else to see where that money came from. So things aren't complicated. There must be a political will to get rid of them. With political will, I'm sure I can set up instruments for better financial discipline and more efficient states, more efficient tax collection. I repeat, by how much or not successful it will be, this will also assess the quality of this new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4273	We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will correct only one incorrect quote from Mr. Vice President Stazic where he claimed that he would refuse any service without an account since the public conversation said that you used Brijuni's service and vacationing on Brijuni without an account. How it is now inconsistencies with each other and how it is contradictory when you talk about how financial order should be introduced, and on the other hand you use state services without an account.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4275	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4276	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sorry I wasn't at the Assembly when my colleague Vuljanić was arguing, and now I'm going to correct my colleague, Stazic. It's a shame they didn't say that. So you have in the IRS a provision signed by the Minister that every acquisition of movable property and property over 100,000 kunas must be made a statement. Among other things, when you're reporting real estate traffic, then you have to write a way of getting money. The thing is that the IRS is based, you have a form, ma'am... If you have not seen this, then you will see, so when you apply to purchase or sell the property so you have to specify correctly, the tax collector has to check it out. [[You don't understand.]] Did someone do it down at the tax administration it's now a matter of internal control of everything. So in the system it exists. And also the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering is obliged to him by the business banks to report every transaction over two hundred thousand kunas and they must make... The third thing, according to the Cash Payment Act, is precisely defined in Croatia as much as it can be paid in cash and if paid... [[You don't understand.]] Then it's... [[You don't understand.]] So we have laws, we have regulations but that's why some things... [[You don't understand.]] the questions and ultimately what I agree with you is that the OIB has just been introduced to stop political bickering who has what because practically with the OIB will withdraw all assets and you don't need to be audited or converted or anything, it can be pulled back a few years and you can clearly see who has and where it has what it has. [[You don't understand.]] Then many moral verticals in Croatia will simply make a reel forward and back.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4277	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, final word, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4278	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Chief of Staff. I only wanted to explain on behalf of the club what my colleague Grubisic said in his debate and further explain why we are investing amendments to the area office II. categories to increase the number of regional offices. In fact, it doesn't really make any sense for the area to edit II. The categories are in Split, Osijek, Rijeka and Pazin, and at the same time we do not care about the number of inhabitants and the surface of Croatia. Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and Istria County so where Rijeka and Pazin will have their own regional offices II. The categories together consist of 11.32% of the area of the Republic of Croatia, are territorially connected to each other and account for 11.5% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, Dalmatia, which represents 20.21% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, has only one area office, representing 20% of the population. And also Slavonia and Baranja, which account for 20 % of the surface and 20 % of the population. We do not suggest that any of these four cities be abolished, so neither Osijek nor Split nor Rijeka or Pazin, but we suggest that two cities be added as cities that will have district offices II. categories and to be in Slavonia and Baranja in the eastern part of Croatia, the town of Slavonski Brod and to be in Dalmatia city of Zadar. We consider this justified because in this way we would allow citizens and Dalmatia and Slavonia and Baranja to be more accessible because some things still have to be done in the field offices, more availability than this bill has been made. We will therefore put this amendment in place, hoping that you will respect these arguments because they are in favour of people living in these areas. There's only that much. Because in terms of the proposal itself, you can't write it all down, so we think you're going to consider this and see what we're doing. We believe it is to the benefit of citizens and Slavonia and Baranja and Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4279	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's my thanks for all the clubs and for the individual debate about these four laws. We hope, in fact, that we know that this condition is what we have found and that we must change there and that will actually compare us to whether we are successful and whether we will get the next term. So success not only matters not only the government's success but the state's success. So that's our first goal, not only does it mean we're looking at personal... in solving these problems, that in this way we do not have unfair competition, that we introduce a fair and fair game on the market and that with clean bills we enter the European Union and, in fact, that investors who come here to allow us to actually be what we say, the state of rights and that we will all actually have the same conditions on the market. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4281	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on a final bill and vote when the conditions are met. 1) The Executive Director may object to a solution to the performance on the basis of a credible document to the public notary which has issued it. (2) The public notary to which an unfair or unlawful objection against the solution issued will forward the file for the purpose of making a decision on the grounds of appeal to the competent court (Article 252j), which will make a decision on the rejection of such objection. (3) The public notary which has been submitted to the Court of Justice and authorised to object to a solution issued will forward the file for the purpose of carrying out the proceedings under appeal to the competent court (Article 252j), which will, on the occasion of such objection, take the decisions referred to in Articles 53 and 54 of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4283	Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposer shall adopt the amendment of the Committee on Law in Article 1 and also on Article 5. The Committee on Legislatives, the Government, accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4284	Now I would like to ask you to amend the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party to plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4285	The Government does not accept the amendment, and that is because the applicant states the reasons why the IRS obligation is otherwise prescribed by other laws and other articles, and in particular by the provision of Article 63 of the IAS, which is otherwise mentioned by the applicant in the explanation of the amendments. Namely, the IRS' obligation to continuously collect data from taxed recipients of natural persons, to monitor the transport of goods and to carry out all other necessary actions, and to compare data on fixed, mobile and other assets and other expenditure on natural persons and their liabilities during the tax period, and all with the declared income, with a view to the correct determination of income tax obligations and other taxes. As I say, this is already regulated in Article 63 of the applicable law. In this respect, it is worth noting that the amendment is more indeterminate than the existing provision of Article 63 of the applicable law for reasons other than the obligation to collect and compare data on assets and reported income is also prescribed and authorised in the event that the Tax Administration during the course of the data collection process and their comparison in paragraphs 1 and 2 of that Article determines that the sources for the property of natural persons have not been demonstrated. In the light of the provisions laid down in Article 63(3) of the applicable Income Tax Act, in the event that the Tax Administration finds after the procedure has been carried out that the sources for the assets of natural persons have not been proven then determines the income on that basis as the difference between the value of the assets and the proven amount of the assets for its acquisition. I also point out that the provisions of other laws, e.g. the General Tax Law, contain provisions on procedural actions and measures authorised to implement the Tax Administration, including the authorisation to carry out an assessment of the basis for establishing the base of income tax. Physical persons under the law of the prescribed assumptions and the exercise of supervision in order to verify and determine the facts relevant to the taxation of taxpayers. As regards the implementation of the articles already mentioned in paragraphs 63 and 2 of the applicable law, we point out that the information exchange of data through the OIB has also been established. Therefore, the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment is not, in a qualitative or quantitative sense, affected by the content and scope of the work, measures and actions already carried out by the Tax Administration in accordance with existing legal powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4286	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4287	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, the intensity of this amendment was that the IRS or the IRS obligations entered into a job that would somehow repair some social irregularities that were perfectly visible, which really do not need to be explained to anyone, we all know them, we all see them around each day. And so far, the Tax Administration could control, and I stress that it could control the difference between the change in value of the taxpayer's assets and the tax paid in the previous period. She could've done it sometimes, worked for someone, didn't do it for someone. We wanted precisely this amendment, which is actually the content of our draft laws, the amendment to the Law on the Emergency Administration that we put in the procedure for formal reasons, we didn't come to the agenda, we wanted to change that situation by this very law. Of course, we have also put forward a proposal to amend the General Tax Law where it would be procedurally determined in which way and what to do when such a thing happens. Anyway, I'm sorry this amendment wasn't accepted. I don't believe he would violate the smart structure of the Tax Administration Act and ask the Parliament to plead by voting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4288	Thank you very much. Now before we go to the vote on this first amendment. I would ask that, as far as the amendments are concerned, especially because we are followed by a statement on amendments to the budget to vote manually, because they warn me that it is much more effective and faster when it comes to voting, so on such a way. Do you agree? Thank you. Then I put to the vote the amendments of the Croatian Labour Club and the party of work that we are now talking about. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. We can move on, and that's Mr Bora Grubisic's amendment. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4289	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The applicant does not accept the reasons stated by the applicant of the amendment, which is that there is a clear disproportionateness between the distribution of the regional offices of the second category, and that Slavonia, Baranja and Dalmatia have only one regional office. Paragraph 2 of that Article only categorises established tax administrations in three categories, according to the criterion of the number of taxpayers and the complexity of transactions. It is therefore not for the categorisation of the regional offices referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article that the territorial structure is determined, but rather for the criteria of the scope and complexity of the transactions carried out in certain regional offices as set out in this Act. In addition, the amendments submitted that in the area of those regions, other offices of Dubrovnik, Požega, Slavonski Brod, Sibenik, Virovitica, Vukovar and Zadar were established by the district offices of Osijek and Split, meaning that the reasons for the proposal were not accepted and the amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4290	Mr. Representative Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4291	Your argument, Mr. Minister, is not clear and acceptable to me. Namely, you said that the schedule of the regional offices of the second category depends on the complexity of the business, the size of the business, etc. However, how do you explain that there is a second category area office in both Rijeka and Pazin, 50 km between Rijeka and Pazin? I have nothing against the office of the second category in Pazin, but given the complexity of the business, and I do not believe that it is smaller in Dalmatia, Split, etc. We asked for an amendment to keep the area office of the second category in Zadar and Slavonski Brod. So, for 900,000 residents as much as Dalmatia and Slavonia, which each of 900,000 inhabitants is absolutely certainly the size of jobs and what you have stated for reasons has enough jobs and more than in the office in Rijeka and Pazin together. So I ask that the MPs vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4292	Thank you very much. I've made one small failure, and it can be a big one, so I'd like to correct it to determine the quorum before further vote. We know we're here most of the time, but I'd like to officially establish a quorum. Here are 130 MPs present in the hall. Thank you very much, Mr. Agent Lesar, for warning me about that. Let's vote on the amendment. So, who's for Mr Grubisic's amendment? The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. I am concluding the debate and voting on the final draft of the law. Now I ask that we vote electronically because it will also be simpler for us. Who's in favour, so to make a statement, we electronically engage and vote. We only vote manually with the amendment, and by law, when we say it, then we declare ourselves electronically. Let's get involved and vote. Thank you very much. I find that most votes with 80 votes, 41 against and 8 abstentions have been passed by the Tax Administration Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. and now we move on to - Final bill on the completion of the bankruptcy law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 31. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Please take it easy. Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, Deputy Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4444	I would like to thank Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The purpose of the proposed complementarity of the bankruptcy law is to ensure an additional mechanism for protecting workers' rights. It is related to the achievement of minimum claims in the bankruptcy procedure itself. And what is proposed by this one supplement is that it amounts to 3 minimum salaries in the Republic of Croatia. What this Law aims to achieve, or the effect that it wants to produce, is more protection of workers' rights than the existing bankruptcy law. In fact, large creditors are usually secured by mortgages. This is considered to be reasonable credentials, and workers often remain suspended after settlement from the bankruptcy mass due to insufficient height, i.e. the rest of the bankruptcy mass to pay off their claims. Therefore, the intention is to bring in workers as the most unprotected creditors even before the bankruptcy proceedings are launched in a more favourable position in the bankruptcy process itself than they have so far, as the minimum claims made by workers in the amount of 3 minimum salaries are thus included in the costs of the bankruptcy process. What is important is to point out that after the cost of the bankruptcy process and other bankruptcy obligations, exclusive and distinct creditors are first placed, and then the first higher payment order in which workers' claims are made from a working relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4445	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No one's answering. I'm opening a debate. First of all, on behalf of the representatives' clubs. On behalf of the Laburista Club – party of work Mr. Representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4446	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. These changes to the law seem to provide workers with greater rights, but in practice they will create a lot of problems and will not benefit from it but will still have to wait for longer payment of their claims. Croatian Labourists – we have warned on several occasions that we are faced with a multi-year negative practice of applying the bankruptcy law as well as the very course of implementation of bankruptcy. Banks are the generators of negative effects on the situation in the economy but also the alarming number of jobless growth, the current 335 000 unemployed. It is necessary to halt the practice of long-term account blocks of business entities as they generate a huge internal non-refundable debt in the country and create very negative consequences for the functioning of the entire economy. When there is an opening of bankruptcy, the increased debts far exceed the available value of the assets of business entities. With blocked accounts at the end of 2011, there were 70,000 legal entities, and their amount of non-executed payment bases was about 41 and a half billion kuna. Of these companies, 75% have a long-term account block with over 80% of the debt, 35% are in the blockade for over five years, and 21,000 legal entities are without one employee with 16 and a half billion kuna. There's a question about what phantom companies are and who they're using them for. Workers in companies with long-term blocked accounts do not receive salary, which is why they are in a very difficult social situation. They cope with every possible way to feed their family, and sometimes in an unembarkable situation that is far from normal living conditions. They are not entitled to work, a decent salary guaranteed by the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia. Practice tells us when finally and open a bankruptcy procedure against companies after long-term account blocks, workers are mostly left out for their unpaid salaries. According to the Law on the Insurance of Jobs' Claims in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy, they received three minimum salaries and half the corresponding severance payment, which was sometimes their last straw of salvation to ensure the existence of their families. According to the Banking Act, the reasons for the opening of the bankruptcy are the first incompetence to pay companies, and this if they cannot meet their dues and if they have registered outstanding obligations with banks operating for it for a period of more than 60 days. And secondly, over-indebtedness if the property does not cover existing obligations. If the company is not able to pay or over-indebted management which is run by the company without delay and no later than 21 days after the creation of the insolvency for payment or over-indebtedness, it shall propose the opening of the bankruptcy procedure. It doesn't happen in practice or rarely when it happens. That's why we have problems like Jadran Stone, KIO Orahovica, Dalmatia wine, Adria hem, Dalid, Kamensko, Industrogranja, Bilo Kalnik, Đakovština and in recent days we heard Vesnik, and we will soon have a General tourist here in the city center of Zagreb. We have examples that company accounts have been blocked for over eight years without assets and capital of only 20,000 kuna. Over 20 million kunas increase during the blockade period, and when bankruptcy is opened, workers cannot make their claims for unpaid salaries. In a specific case, for example, the amount to be paid by workers is 2 million kuna. The state runs out of nine million kunas, and I'm saying this to point out the problem of the proposed changes to the bankruptcy law and the workers won't get anything more, and they'll lose more. These workers will benefit from no changes to this law. According to the proposed amendments to the Banking Act, Article 86(2) reads: "A fee to each insolvency worker other than the company’s administration of three minimum salaries in the Republic of Croatia if that amount of compensation cannot be made in accordance with Article 3(1). The law on ensuring the demand of workers in the event of employer bankruptcy." I repeat this if that amount of compensation cannot be realised in accordance with Article 3. And that means workers will be paid three minimum salaries from the cost of bankruptcy, if that right is not achieved under the law to ensure the demand for workers in the event of bankruptcy by which all workers have so far earned the right to do so, and workers in larger companies who ended up in bankruptcy like Pevec with over 2,000 workers. This is what the workers achieved about 1 to 2 months after the bankruptcy hearing, and now it will be at the mercy of the bankruptcy managers. I wonder why the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if it was intended to help workers, then it didn't prescribe three paid salaries, why just three minimum salaries? The question of why should workers make their salaries and claims under the same law on two grounds? First, three minimum salaries from the cost of bankruptcy, and the difference from the minimum salary to the corresponding salaries of workers from the first payment order. I think this solution is very bad because if there was a will right to pay three minimum salaries to workers, it could be simplified and accelerated in favour of workers, and the state would charge three minimum salaries from the cost of bankruptcy. We see that this was not a protection of the interests of workers but of the state to take off the liability of paying off the three minimum salaries it has under the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy of employers. In a large number of bankruptcys, workers are forced to apply themselves for the opening of bankruptcy because these are not the administrations of society, although the law obliges them to do so. In rare cases, the state is initiating bankruptcy, and the administrations are not responsible for the damage caused by the million-dollar amount due to non-compliance with the legal obligations. There is a significant number of cases and practices for administration and to submit a proposal for the opening of bankruptcy but not to pay the necessary advance to the Fund to cover the costs of bankruptcy proceedings, and for this reason the bankruptcy judge rejects the proposal for the opening of bankruptcy, continuing the agony of its workers indefinitely. And if it were to end this absurd practice, it takes a more significant change of laws that regulate this area. These changes to the law will not help the problems of bankruptcy only create confusion, and the state will transfer its responsibility for paying three minimum salaries to bankruptcy managers. These changes will not speed up bankruptcy, and workers will remain only a method of tents and protests to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4447	Thank you very much. Next in line on behalf of clubs is Mr. Igor Radjanovic. On behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4448	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As much as the legislator has tried to achieve a certain goal through the adoption of laws and amendments and amendments to the law, you will all agree with me that Croatia is one of the most normal countries in the world, and only respect and practice is already part of another story. It is not always possible to achieve it in full extent, therefore, to adopt i.e. The purpose, the goal, the idea of the law itself. To strengthen the position of workers in the often unfair labour and capital game was always part of the SDP club's legal proposals and when he was ruling when these laws could be carried but also in opposition when he sought to improve the position of workers in often unfair Croatian society. In fact, the practice when talking about bankruptcy, practice shows that bankruptcy in the Republic of Croatia is being opened relatively late, often too late, leading to a significant reduction in bankruptcy and inability to pay workers at least the minimum amount that would belong to them under the other provisions of the bankruptcy law. Although claims from the bankruptcy were provided, certain measures were taken by the Law on ensuring the claims of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer adopted in 2008, but in certain cases and practice it showed that it is possible to expect that these funds would not be sufficient to settle the minimum claims in particular in the event of the opening of several bankruptcy proceedings of larger entities. Therefore, the purpose of the proposed addition of the bankruptcy law with such a short provision but an important provision is to ensure additional protection of workers' rights and related to the achievement of minimum claims in the bankruptcy procedure of up to 3 minimum salaries in the Republic of Croatia. It is important to point out that, in practice, after the cost of bankruptcy proceedings and other bankruptcy obligations, exclusive and distinct creditors are first found, as the Deputy Minister spoke of, and then the first higher payment order in which labour workers' claims are made. As a result, the most frequently large creditors are secured by mortgages and thus are considered to be distinct creditors although formally in the first payment order due to insufficient bankruptcy, workers often remain cut short and short sleeves. Therefore, the purpose of this supplement is to bring objectively workers as objectively the most unprotected credentials even before the bankruptcy procedure itself takes place in a more favourable position in the bankruptcy process, so that these changes guarantee the minimum claims of workers in the amount of three minimum salaries. In addition, this provision is important, since they intend to achieve order in order to settle the bankruptcy obligations and the right to pay the unpaid salaries of workers is due first. and prior to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings or before any other bankruptcy proceedings, for example before the court costs of the bankruptcy proceedings, thereby guaranteeing that payment. We are aware of Croatian practices, and very often what my previous companies' administrations have been saying is that they do not start in time with bankruptcy and thus bring the situation into an increasingly difficult position. We also expect the Tax Administration to be more active in this regard and that, in the mandate standing before us, bankruptcy is also not the worst story, bankruptcy can be an opportunity to save businesses and therefore jobs, but it must be launched in time, that the Tax Administration will also be something more active and in time to start bankruptcy in situations where it is necessary. But I'm saying, unless this changes and the additions of the law ensure this additional mechanism of payment of workers' claims, along with the one secured by the Insurance and Jobs Act in the event of bankruptcy of the employer. Therefore, the SDP club will support these amendments and amendments to the law, as well as amendments submitted by the Committee on Law and the Club of HNS Representatives, since they are slightly better. They explain more precisely the provisions of these short but significant changes for Croatian workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4449	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4450	Dear Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Contrary to the impression that remains behind the discussion of the first presentation of representatives of the Labour Party, it is a personal pleasure to present on behalf of the CNS on the adoption of this amendment and the addition of the Law on the bankruptcy procedure for the simple reason that it is an improvement of the position of Croatian workers in a story that could be called a fundamental story of Croatian relations in the economy, a story about the fate of Croatian workers in the past two decades, which is actually based on the fact that the famous thing in which historians will most likely be described from a historical distance, and its title is "Croatian privatisation". In this Croatian Parliament, the generations of Croatian politics passed by without significant repercussions of great injustice experienced by Croatian workers left for mercy and mercy in the general story of the collapse of the Croatian economy when it started to count people who had been denied for months and years of unpaid work, when the number of people whose family lives were destroyed, threatened existence due to the poor business of new employers, due to poor business management of companies in which they were employed, would be very likely to measure that figure by hundreds of thousands of people. And I am therefore particularly surprised by the reaction of my colleagues from the Croatian Labour Party, who, by passing one of these laws that prescribes a new protection mechanism, even if partial protection of workers' rights, are waiting for the bottom. It would be expected that the party representing the interests of Croatian workers each, and even the slightest attempt to protect the position of Croatian workers in such situations, welcomes at least, to welcome him in a friendly manner, not to minorise and even less to try not to manipulate the Croatian public with the claim that this law has no effect. The practice that Croatia had unfortunately learned well because we had countless thousand bankruptcy proceedings has shown that the state is a bad economy, that all the normised mechanisms of control and trade of companies have so far failed to produce the right results and that thousands of companies have gone into bankruptcy too late. Of course, the position of Croatian workers in the collection of their claims in such a situation if the patient died first then an ambulance would come, in principle it was nothing. Dominantly declared bankruptcy with liquidation, and very rarely the other variant appeared that might have a successful ending, which is bankruptcy with the reshuffle. The provisions of this law bring Croatian workers into a better position for the next reason. In this decision, the funds that are intended to be paid are classified in the category of bankruptcy costs, which in practice knowers of this part of the commercial right call it. In a zero order of charge, they enter the very top of the bill if the bankruptcy is at least somewhat declared on time. This decision is in fact a parallel mechanism of protection with that mechanism which is prescribed through the Law on the Protection of Workers in the bankruptcy procedure, which prescribes that the Agency which is based on this task to protect the interests of workers should be paid up to three months minimum salaries in the Republic of Croatia. The introduction of this mechanism creates assumptions to ensure a little more than that, i.e. to ensure that the next variant in which any agency's resources would not be sufficient to compensate workers. There is a possibility that this mechanism will pay off those funds. The HNS Club is aware of the fact that both this law and this amendment of the law will not fully protect the position of Croatian workers from such an effort. HNS will support this law and will continue to reflect and work on new legislative proposals that will aim at improving the position of Croatian workers, protecting their social rights, and even more protection of Croatian workers than those produced by 20 years of political practice, including in this honorable home. In order to facilitate the understanding of this law, the HNS Club also invests in an amendment that provides that, in the added point of Article 2 86, behind words in height, three minimum salaries add a word to, in order to avoid double interpretation, for clearer formulations in situations where claims would not be strictly three months' wages, so that those claims are settled to the extent to which the worker is not paid. So, I stress this law we will support, and as a parliamentary party this four years, we will try to do what our predecessors missed, what is a clear coincidence of political practice created in this honorable House that has produced Croatian privatisation to the pride of those who are its authors. And as for colleagues from the Croatian Labour Party, I sincerely hope that, since the new party was created by the dissatisfaction of some of its founders with the work in our party when I did not notice that they fought so hard and hard for workers' rights, I sincerely hope that in the future every move, every proposal will welcome who goes in the interest of protecting workers' rights in the right way as we will welcome each of theirs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4451	I didn't see if you were reporting for a correction to an incorrect quote or not? Yes, yes, I've seen it for you. Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4452	Mr. President, here I would like to correct the quote of my colleague Baranovic who said saying that his pleasure on behalf of the club is to speak, because this is to improve the position of Croatian workers. It's not that black white. I argue that this is not exactly an improvement, because in the existing Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy, employers are provided with Croatian workers when the company goes into bankruptcy far greater rights. However, if the Government is now declaring this Law that it will not, under this Law, provide sufficient resources in the Republic of Croatia, and what would be required then it must, indirectly, protect less rights than those existing ones by means of other laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4453	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4454	Dear President, the HDSSB club can also agree with the following fact that the problem of bankruptcy, the problem of workers in Croatia goes back to this nearer past, so at a time of conversion and privatisation by a very well-known model where these workers are the worst through, that those who have spent their lifetime no matter what system or system they have worked in, but also by creating those companies that are precisely those who, and that created value, had to pay in that first privatisation, in some other way and that they have lost their share of these funds irretrievably in conversion and privatisation. For conversion and privatisation, for crime in conversion and privatisation, but it should be looked back a little, and all the political options advocated by the privatisation model at the time are well known to which system and system so many who today talk about this conversion and privatisation would be very surprised. On the other hand, I am the Banking Act, i.e. these additions to the bankruptcy law, the HDSSB Club will support solely for the reasons of one simple which ensures minimum pay for workers who are in bankruptcy proceedings and who are thus once protected because they enter into the cost of bankruptcy proceedings. I am a bankruptcy procedure, and practice has shown this especially today in this near future going very slowly, very late. So, when the entire essence or the essence of the company is destroyed, the company only then is subject to bankruptcy proceedings, and very often it is those in the first payment order that cannot settle, and in any case they should be workers who, under the existing bankruptcy law, are neither zero nor the first payment order, but are, in any case, banks that are not owned by Croatian citizens, since these banks were first rescheduled, and then sold for small money to fill the state budget. Similar to what we may now do with the only current Croatian bank, or majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia – the Croatian Post Bank, regardless of what was happening in that bank, the kind of loans that were given etc. etc. but this is not a debate on Croatia's postal bank, it is precisely this complementary of the bankruptcy process. And we can only view this as a one-time help to those who lose their jobs and those who lose their jobs and thus have no existence. We can also observe this Law in the context of social assistance, assistance that will be given once and where workers will be able to make that salary, and minimum three salaries. This is also an answer and an invitation to the government to leave those three salaries, not to adopt this amendment until, because no other possibility can happen. Because if a worker who worked less than 3 months can't make that three minimum wage fee, it's going to be far less. And the SDP club cannot accept the amendment in any case, because it is not he who accepts, but accepts the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Proposer. He can only vote for it, Mr. Representative Radenovic. However, the HDSSB, the HDSSB club as a political option, one of the most important factors in the policy of the Republic of Croatia, proposes to amend the entire bankruptcy law in such a way that the workers who created the company are indeed in the right order of payment. That they are followed by units of local self-government which are also in a bankruptcy procedure extremely suspended because they come somewhere in the back row of claims but also by the state. And the banks, of course, would then go to the creditors, and the banks should be in the back line because those who gave loans many times to political instruments were pressed because I don't believe it could have happened in Đakovština or the former PIK Djakovo that some business bank, based on a fake report, could have provided millions of amounts based on the haired data. She could put it under political pressure before certain local, parliamentary elections so that the company would not go ahead of the very bankruptcy elections, although it was visible from all data that the company was just ripe for bankruptcy. They are those who should bear part of their responsibility and in bankruptcy proceedings but thus, by not giving credit when the situation is not real for credit, speed up the bankruptcy process itself. In this way, the company that has its value would not lose its full value over the years, and in the bankruptcy process itself, it would be much easier to charge all the creditors. This kind of bankruptcy law because this is just saying helping people who lose their jobs in bankruptcy are these three salaries. It's not really changing the bankruptcy process, it's three minimum wages. It's not really changing the bankruptcy process. And this government is expected to propose an amendment to the entire bankruptcy law right now. We will support this social aid that goes to workers, noting that definitely the bankruptcy law must be amended. And it is precisely in a way that those who have worked and continued work, because the bankruptcy procedure does not necessarily mean the liquidation of the company's assets, but may mean a new beginning that it is they who should be the first to be charged in a bankruptcy procedure, ultimately by the creditors and units of local self-government and ultimately by the state itself. Management Boards and Supervisory Boards who led the company, which led to bankruptcy, because bankruptcy in Croatia is not and is not the only cause of the global economic crisis or the crisis that has arisen in the Croatian way, so we further deepened it, but bankruptcy is primarily the result of the decisions of the administration, the supervisory boards. Administrations and supervisory committees should be excluded from any possibility of obtaining certain rights not only from bankruptcy proceedings, I am talking about administrations and supervisory committees that lead the company to bankruptcy but must be held accountable, not criminally but liable. Best example, an example is certainly Đakovština Company. I can now thank the government, and I can primarily thank the tenacity of the workers and the trust they had in me and as mayor as well as the parliamentary representative who claimed that the time had matured to do what had been done. But I am aware that in a year's time the elections were none of the precedents that the government of the Republic of Croatia made then would not have been and these workers would have lost their claim. It is a precedent that was conditional on parliamentary elections. Just to remind you, in this company, that wheat that disappeared from the supply supply is just a drop in the sea not to say in those oceans of privatisation in a Croatian way where it was completely fueled by former PIK Đakovo who had over 3.5 thousand employees where today there was practically no stone left on stone, that's what business banks were doing and they were giving loans to political orders, and that company had the government of the Republic of Croatia through its funds almost 32% of ownership. Not to say how many times she's rescheduled that company. Today, the former Đakovština or former PIC Djakovo popularly called Mimoza, is a shortcut from past the law that is staring empty today and which has been assessed by the government's assessment of the former government of about 24 million kuna, given to the gift of the city of Đakovo which the city of Đakovo can't accept because it should give up some claims to the Republic of Croatia in the amount of 24 million kuna, this building has been empty since 2000. It's completely devastated and the only possibility of putting her into office is just moving all these state offices from the pension, health, etc. In particular, this country would not be spending money on editing a series of buildings again. One such request I made immediately upon the appointment of this government, but to this day there was no answer and this building was also owned by the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Audi, the Real estate management agency is indeed staring empty. Similar is the case with another Slavonic company with KIO Orahovica, where workers also have their claims because they also similarly wintered in that tent. They probably didn’t have enough good advisers to poop that they really did what they earned and left at the end of the year’s work experience in that company’s bankruptcy proceedings. This is where the state was also responsible. This time, not through the ownership stake itself, but through those loans that I was talking about at the beginning, loans given through political pressures regardless of whether it was the Government of the Republic of Croatia or whether it was the President of the Republic of Croatia but that led to the company going into bankruptcy, that these banks would be charged, and workers would remain dry sleeves. And obviously, even in this bankruptcy law, we are looking for therefore an emergency procedure for the entire bankruptcy procedure so that this would not be repeated in a country that is entering the EU. At the very end, there is one great responsibility of the Tax Administration, which on a number of examples was one of the limbs of the known octopus of corruption and crime because it protected those who were politically similar, because in time it did not react to its mechanisms and systems in order to bring bankruptcy itself to start as soon as possible, and noting that bankruptcy is neither a shut-down nor an end to any type of production but could be a new beginning. Here's since the red lights are gonna end with this. So we will support this addition to the bankruptcy law, we consider it a single newspaper that will take some care of workers for at least a month and a half when new prices will be drawn up in Croatia after the VAT increase, but we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to urgently take responsibility and put in the parliamentary procedure a complete amendment to the bankruptcy law in the manner I have proposed. If the government doesn't know that, then we'll help her do it because this situation is unsustainable. With these changes, the situation and length of the bankruptcy will not change, but we will continue to sink deeper and deeper. There's no sign of that this time...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4455	Time. Finish it. There's no sign of us going any further, but there's an indication of Plan 21 that's already starting to fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4458	Vice President. MP Vinkovic incorrectly said that workers under the current law are not in the first paying order of workers' claims are already banks, so it is incorrect. According to the 2006 bankruptcy law, the claims of workers in gross amounts are in the first payment order with the payment championship. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4459	Here you are, Your Honor, Agent Vinkovic...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4460	Please don't throw yourself over the bench because then we have the right to answer through the bench, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4461	Of course, if we don't respect the Rules of Procedure, then you have every right to do whatever you want, but I think it's the turn here in the Rules of Procedure and in our relationship with the Parliament and this institution. A representative of respected counterpart Vinkovic has something to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4462	Injured article not to read, 209, 213 and 214. Now that I'm not reading them, it's about cheating, practical and disdaining MPs. I call on my colleague Lovrin to come out, go to Orahovica for a little while, go to any employee who's been in bankruptcy proceedings and ask him if he's charged in a bankruptcy procedure. If he goes to any bank, he'll see who's charged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4463	Dear colleague Vinkovic, you are wrong about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. It was a violation of the act, not going to any local self-government. ... Dear Representative Boro Grubisic has a correction of the allegations. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Grubisic, please. ... Your colleague Grubisic will continue, I think he will respect you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4464	My colleague Vinkovic, I also agree with your approval of this intersecon, so I would say or fire measures in connection with this bankruptcy process, but what I wanted to correct is that you said that bankruptcy does not necessarily mean liquidation. So I, after that, would ask you to tell us, I disagree with that, correct you, so that on the fingers of one hand you can list cases where bankruptcy was not liquidation in the Republic of Croatia. And just one more thing to say, in the perception of citizens and people, bankruptcy means liquidation, citizens perception, and even in my perception. And the same analogous to this privatisation is related to the perception of crime. Here's the exact same analogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4465	Thank you very much. Perception depends on the glasses most often and dioptier. A respected representative of counterpart Vinkovic seems to have a problem with the Rules of Procedure. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4466	I don't have a problem with the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter I was referring to bankruptcy in general, so bankruptcy theory. In Croatia so far, it was not this form of bankruptcy that something new was born of but total destruction of property.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4467	Comrade Vinkovic, you are absolutely aware that there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Is that clear to you, then don't do it. Thank you very much. Okay, I appreciate that. Let's move on. There's a respected representative, Anna Lovrin, and 15 minutes of debate on behalf of the club. Here you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. So the HDZ Club really wants to support every law that brings the welfare of workers, and especially those workers who, in the event of bankruptcy, lose their jobs and whose working relationship ceases to be bankrupt. But as I was saying earlier, we are not sure that this concept of bankruptcy law will indeed happen and the well-being of workers will take place in relation to the existing legislation. Namely, a little chronology of the bankruptcy law this collection of labour claims has always moved somewhere within the first payment order and among the creditors of the bankruptcy mass as it was at the beginning of the bankruptcy law there somewhere since 97. When a small part of the workers' claims for a 30-day salary were in the bankruptcy table where they were creditors of the bankruptcy, then in 2000 the workers' claims went to the first payment order, but then in 2003, with one odd change, the work claims in the first payment order were reduced only to the last three salaries, the last three fees, and the other labour claims in that law were not a word of which they would be charged. Therefore, the 2006 amendments and this is true for the first time the full work claims from salary in gross amount are determined in the first payment order and with the right of primary payment. What we've heard about banks, so we have to talk about it, but we're MPs here, we're still talking about it under the law. So it's possible that banks have been charged before, but not because they're more in order to collect, but because they had distinct rights such as mortgages unfortunately and fiduciary sometimes or figurine stock on movement. But that's another thing and responsibility there shouldn't be sought in them, but should be sought in the administrations that misrepresented themselves and pawned the property of such companies. Therefore, since 2006, workers' claims have indeed been gross in the first payment order with the right of the billing championship. Unfortunately, during the application of this bankruptcy law, it was seen in practice that, following the intention of the creditor of the bankruptcy, after the exemption of the request of the exclusive creditors, after the intention of the separate creditors in that bankruptcy table for the first payment order, there was insufficient funds for the workers to settle. For this very reason, and seeing this, and at least somehow ensuring a part of the demand for workers in 2008 was passed a Law on ensuring the demand for workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer. E, this law established what workers are entitled to in any case and it is a far wider circle of rights than those now proposed in these amendments to the bankruptcy law. Therefore, this law provides for the payment of the last three salaries, the last three sick leave which was due to be paid by the employer, annual leave fees, salary fees, damages to work, etc. The State is obliged to provide funds for the payment of these secured claims by workers. And why we're afraid now and why now from the HNS and SDP clubs are very surprised by the debates of Croatian Labourists. So Croatian Labourists really want to protect the rights of workers. They don't think it's the law to sort of determine that it looks like it's a protection, but it's not really that protection. Why? Because in this way, this amendment to the bankruptcy law determines that workers with a payment request of three minimum salaries will be determined as creditors of the bankruptcy, and the team is now even more vague after it has been said to accept the CNS amendment, which does not say three minimum salaries, but up to three minimum salaries. So now I'm asking how it's going to be determined? Who's going? Whether or not this will determine whether one minimum wage will be placed on the burden of bankruptcy, as creditors of the bankruptcy mass of three or two. If he is concerned that three minimum salaries should be paid to everyone under this interpretation regardless of the claim, there is no concern. So you know what a claim is in the event of bankruptcy and how it is determined. But, of course, these changes are as if the Government had said in advance, so there is now a valid law that provides workers with in the event of bankruptcy if there is no funds for peace from the first payment order that the state ensures the claims of a worker's claim, and as I said three last salaries in gross amounts, three payments for living on the burden of the employer, annual leave, compensation for injury to work, etc. And the state under that applicable law must now provide for sufficient resources under the last budget provisions. If they have not been provided with sufficient resources in the budget where the obligations under the law are subsequently to be determined, they shall find funds for them. What does the state say now? If there's not enough money, so if we don't provide a budget for a worker's claim with a lot of money, and by adopting this law, it implies they won't be provided, in which case we won't provide the money, but let these three minimum salaries be secured by the means of the bankruptcy process. So let the workers for this become believers of the bankruptcy mass. Now it can be so, but it should be said Croatian then and clearly that the state budget is being cut off for that amount, and that it is burdening the bankruptcy mass. And for as long as the workers are here and settled, then there will be less in the bankruptcy table for other believers. So here's what I'm saying is that, it's said here and that the SDP, that the SDP is always first on the thoughts of rights, the improvement of workers, etc. But here's how little we're afraid of this provision like it was in 2003 in amendments to the bankruptcy law when suddenly from the first payment order all the work claims took off except for three last salaries, three last fees, vacation fees, only in that year that was before the bankruptcy, etc. So one smaller amount of labour claims, and the other one did not fall out of the first payment order, but was not mentioned at all where he would settle. Here is why I repeat every improvement, everything that is good for Croatian workers we will gladly support. But from this seemingly insurance of a worker's claim, the government's intention is actually to make sure, under the current law, that what it is required to provide in the budget for the purpose of workers' claims on a far wider scale, that it will not provide it and that there will be no money in that position, but that it will instruct the workers to make peace as creditors of the bankruptcy and for a far smaller amount than it is guaranteed under the existing law. At first glance it may come from a series of laws which we are discussing these days which reduce and rights but also make life difficult for a Croatian worker and citizen from increasing VAT to here the already proposed Law on benefits during unemployment and by erasing unemployment records where the Government orders no longer up to a minimum wage of 2,000 700 he is too much to survive. When you earn a thousand $600, that's enough for you, you can live for a month and you no longer need to be given anything to help you during unemployment. Here, after a series of laws that we are discussing in this way, this is one law that would say at first sight it does something for the benefit of workers, but I fear that this fundamental law, therefore by law on bankruptcy as a basic law, actually guarantees them less than the existing law which should respect this government and provide for it as a commitment under the law enough to pay workers a new law guaranteeing the payment of workers but in a far less amount than it is under the existing law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4469	Thank you very much. At your presentation, respected MPs Lovrin, respected representative Petar Baranovic, reported a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4470	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Lovrin said one thing in her presentation that does not stand, and my intention is to correct that assumption. It introduced the whole situation in a way that the HNS Club in its statement to this Assembly on this item of the agenda presented this amendment to the law as a complete solution to the protection of workers' rights. It would be really amazing for a serious parliamentary party and parliamentary representatives to think that only once by amending the law can solve all the political damages that the HDZ has done to Croatian workers in the privatisation process that has been determined by their political mentoring process in 20 years. We have explicitly stated that we consider this item of the agenda, or this bill, only one step forward in correcting and improving the position of Croatian workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4471	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate on the bill. The first person to speak was Honored Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, the victims of bankruptcy are not just creditors, suppliers, other believers, but workers first. But they are not just bankruptcys they are primarily victims of inadequate policies that did not respond at the time when she was called and should react when bankruptcys were to be opened. So all of this, in which situation we've found ourselves in, we have to react in this way by amending the bankruptcy law in order for people to get anything, so at least those three salaries. Because speaking here and fighting each other if we're going to do the truth, then in 2002, we put the third year in the first payment order. But did that help them? It's not. And why isn't it? Because banks are provided before any payment order, which charges the cost of the bank’s bankruptcy and all those involved in the process that eat themselves what little remains. Therefore, first and foremost, we are about to have such proceedings immediately at the end of the battle, which is because he regulated and the Law on Commercial Companies opens up as well as because they challenge any delay, and then it is manipulated, and it is one hypocrisis of unsuspecting proportions to those workers whom such owners and such administrations that led the company to bankruptcy did not pay the wages. And then that's because of the workers, let's postpone the bankruptcy. The concern here and now even showing up as a lawyer on one behalf of the entire party, the party of the work of a colleague who has said hers and is probably prevented by other obligations, is talking about the very care of workers. That's them. That's the party who's been insisting for 8.9 years on our bill to pay the wages, but also the contribution to being a criminal offense. And finally the pressured public adopts the law with a delay in entry into force for a year only the following year 2013. So there is no doubt as counterpart Baranovic said this is an ad hoc measure to act immediately. But what lies ahead just as the left option which is in power and which wants and if it wants to stay not only to be but to remain politically relevant must go from one adequate, one complete analysis of economic political relations but also the social situation in which the employment has been found today, marginalized on the outstanding. One right of battle for its position and reposition comes and crosses the national frameworks and we see it just as Croatia enters the EU. There's an unknown notion, even though labor is exploited there, but it's an unknown notion that a worker is working and not getting paid. Anyway, it's an exception. And here's almost a rule, and we know where the birth certificate of such behavior is in a defeated option that's now crying over those rights. But we don't have time, and people don't even have the nerve to listen to demagogue discussions or debates that go according to calculations, but they want and seek solutions. First of all, the basic solution is precisely in the political concept, not to be considered because it is the greatest deception and error to consider work to be a cost. Work is the one that creates a new value and is not a cost. If we start talking like that, then we won't achieve much. The second thing is that the work is burdened with costs, the worker himself is burdened, if he's lucky enough to work at all. First of all, what we are about to do is to protect the fundamental rights, the right to pay and the right to everything that comes out of the work itself, and first of all, we can't wait a year for that law to come into force because when we introduced this crime in 2003, the law still didn't come into force we had no payout already as a nearly solved problem. I think it's well-placed. They should not be afraid of employers who, without their own guilt, have fallen into a difficult situation, and unfortunately there are those, and yet they have been raised by a policy that puts them in an unequal position because just by respecting the law and all the legal norms have come into an inadequate and unequal position with all those who were close to the authorities and where the government has forgiven them, starting with taxes and other duties. And in any case, if they couldn't compete with them that way. The second thing is to really think about whether we're going to leave this kind of payment in line, are either in the first order of charge or in the second line, make one bigger turn and simply determine that protecting work and employment is the most difficult thing for us, and that means that workers should be charged before banks and before all costs. I think it's only then that we're going to have the right effect, and first of all, we need to prevent this kind of thing from happening to them at all. I will point out once again that we need to establish both work and social courts as quickly as possible, which will be the best prevention but also the best guideline for all those who are willing to endure or create new injustices towards workers. We remain and reserve the right to speak to those people who have been covered, they, their families, their fates with a wave of silence. These topics should not be politicised, but precisely when it comes to them, so I didn't particularly want to look at or specify the laws that we passed because these would not be constructive discussions, no matter how true something would be. So all that goes in favour of work affirmation and work protection I think the issue is national issue number one today in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4473	Thank you very much. At your presentation, respected MPs Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, the respected representative Branko Vuksic reported the replica. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4474	In these last sentences, Mrs. Anticevic said the right thing, to put the workers in front of the banks. They are in the first payment order today, which, with the last change of the Labour Act, has put workers in a better position, but here in the Croatian Chamber of Higher House, we are talking about that we should. Now the position has a chance to change laws that prevent workers from billing before banks because it's true. A long bankruptcy process in which it goes to no other purpose but to liquidate companies in a kind of mob, workers get what, nothing. They're getting blank papers. So change, so the Kukuriku coalition is now in a position to change laws, all those laws that threaten workers to collect. And just another digression, a great inaccuracy has been said before, and that is that Croatian Labourists were founded by the HNS. 99% of Croatian Labourists are not even Croatian HNS anymore, I was one of the ideas creators of Croatian Labourists, and I am not an HNS fan and far away that I am. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4475	Thank you very much for the information. And a fellow respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, wants a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4476	Thank you very much. So I think this replica also merits the answer because banks are not only dissatisfied with the mortgage they often provide for their money claims but are not satisfied with it, so those who were in power until yesterday allowed them to become owners immediately and it was an immoral institute dating back to Roman law where the old Romans spoke of the institute's immorality and it was banned at many times. So, we're just about to lift the fiduciary as we did in 2000. And that way, when we talk about the billing of banks, then they could sort out and line up behind the workers because they don't even see the bankruptcy process, they don't even see the executive procedure, they wear their own right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4477	Thank you very much. One notification, that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired at 14.49 p.m. for the application of the debate for 10 minutes under this proposal of the law we are discussing. Let's move on to the next debate. A respected representative named Nadica Jelash has applied for the debate. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4478	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. So while we actually have the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer, this supplement of the bankruptcy law should be just one additional measure of insurance for workers that at least minimum claims in the Republic of Croatia will be settled in the bankruptcy procedure. I agree with the MPs that this measure is, above all, one fire measure because the fundamental problem that makes such measures have to be intervened lies in the fact that in Croatia bankruptcy is running too late. When I say they're running too late, then I think about the moment when the property is already practically disintegrated, when it's unearthed, and that means that the assets of the future bankruptcy mass when it opens up in the largest number of cases are equal to zero. So, no assets, it's irrevocably spent and, of course, the workers don't actually have any chance of settling. Such companies do not actually have the minimum funds to launch bankruptcy, and they are mostly on the same day, so after the bankruptcy is opened, they are bankrupt and closed. They're simply deleted from the court register. Unlike workers who do not have the possibility to launch bankruptcy, they do not usually even have insight into the financial situation of the company they are working in. The company’s administration, unlike them and the contrary, has a legal obligation under the Commercial Society Act to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. The law, namely, defines very precisely the reasons why the administration is obliged to launch bankruptcy, and one of them for this debate is the most important one. If the company is unable to pay or over-indebted management, it shall, without delay and no later than three weeks after the creation of a reason for which a particular reason lays down as a reason for the launch of the bankruptcy, request that the bankruptcy procedure be opened and opened. This special law is precisely the Law on bankruptcy, and it cites as a reason for the launch of bankruptcy the inability to settle the commitments made continuously within 60 days. If we took a look at the current data on indivisibility, we'd see how many companies that should have already been subject to bankruptcy proceedings, it's actually a terrible thing to say that number, and unfortunately it's not started. It is not known how many irresponsible administrations have been punished for the untimely initiation of bankruptcy proceedings. I personally know only a few cases of non-starting penalties being truly symbolic and it is now clear that they had no effect whatsoever in terms of mass change I would say criminal behavior in terms of not opening up bankruptcy. The administrations of companies that did not run bankruptcy in time should have been severely punished in my view, because the fact is that these companies spent other people's property, that by failing to comply with their obligations to their creditors, they damaged all their creditors. So from workers all the way to the state and not for small amounts, for billions of kunas. Unsettled debts sucked other people's trade capital out of the business process and permanently immobilized it in consumer goods. We all know in villas, apartments, expensive cars, exotic trips and the like. Unfortunately, their owners are, in most cases, amnesty of responsibility for this huge financial mess that they have made in the Croatian economy and for spilling out one valuable, extremely valuable economic substance in private pockets. Because if the bankruptcy of the company's assets had been launched in due time, it would have remained either more or less complete, and the likelihood of the collection of creditors, including workers, would have remained far greater. Unfortunately, I also point out for workers because too often in this country is forgotten, I will not say I forget, but simply ignores that workers are also believers. In legally regulated countries and regulated economies, workers often do not even know that the company is in bankruptcy because these are almost regular bankruptcys with reshuffles after which the company actually continues to function completely normally. In contrast, our bankruptcy in Croatia regularly ends in liquidation. So, what is my message, that is, the message of this debate of mys, that it should radically change the situation regarding the timely pace of bankruptcy, and this addition to the Law on bankruptcy in the absence of exactly this radical solution, unfortunately, once again the taxpayers' money, we are relieving the consequences of the long-term systemic inaction of responsible institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4479	Thank you, too. The following has been registered for discussion by the respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4480	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed deputy minister. Now, first of all, I'd like to say that my colleague Jelash, in her presentation, touched the very most important points that indicate why we're bringing this one today, I'd like to call it a fire department. In particular, colleagues from the largest opposition party, who, unfortunately at this point, almost do not even attend the debate, argued that it is unnecessary to pass such a law, that it is unnecessary to adopt such a measure because they consider that the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy is all resolved. I don't agree with that. The law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of employer bankruptcy has taken significant steps and I consider it correct, somewhat and good and necessary. However, practice over the past few years has shown that this law is not enough and that it needs to be corrected. And I don't understand why this measure here is proposed by many, especially the main opposition party, is considered unnecessary. She's useful. If we consider Article 85. The bankruptcy law which speaks of how, in order to meet the costs of the bankruptcy process, it is then clear that we bring these claims of workers first. The demand for workers comes first, they settle before all other costs of the bankruptcy process. If it's a bad thing, it's a bad thing. But we in the SDP think it isn't. We believe that this is useful and that at these times when the economic situation in the country is catastrophic, when workers in a position such as years have not been taking such a measure is useful. I won't be long. Says counterpart Jelash, colleague Anticevic and others before me have said a lot, and I agree with their exposure. However, I will support here the proposal that we received from the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, which is that the Croatian Government is taking steps to refer this House to a more comprehensive programme of amendments to the bankruptcy law. The bankruptcy law is not there for at the end of the existence of a company, of a company, of a company, to shut it down, to sell out its assets, to tell the workers thank you and to send them home. No, in one normal orderly state, bankruptcy proceedings are launched at a time when there is still a chance of saving companies, and to give the company a new start. All these years of the existence of bankruptcy legislation in the Republic of Croatia have shown that we have looked for various ways to the left, once right, but to this day we have not found a way to ensure that the bankruptcy law and bankruptcy laws and bankruptcy procedures do what their basic purpose is, and that is to save businesses to save jobs to save work to save production. That is why I support this committee initiative and I am really asking the Government to direct this House as soon as possible to a programme of amendments and comprehensive changes to bankruptcy legislation. In any case, as I have already stated, this proposal should be supported because I do not see what it would be controversial to add another measure to the protection of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4481	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative, Peggy Grbin. The word came from the esteemed representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected representatives of the Ministry of Economy, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's really a colleague of the coat of arms said the same thing, so much is said today so I'll be very brief. The bankruptcy is unfortunately a word in Croatia that drives people into fear and it is a fact and it is unfortunately mostly justified so because in Croatia the bankruptcy is opened very late, the bankruptcy mass decreases, not all the believers actually do not have a place to settle and bankruptcy instead of being bankrupt with the reshuffle are bankruptcys with liquidation. So, as often as companies enter the bankruptcy situation go into liquidation em, then in this situation the creditors, and especially then the workers unfortunately have nothing more to calm down from. There have been cases of bankruptcy leading to reshuffle, that companies have survived to work further, but I think my colleague Grubisic said that this could be counted on the fingers of one hand and it really is. Instead, companies have been working under a blockade for a long time, additionally burdening property with mortgages, creditors do not settle, contributions and taxes are not paid and, of course, there is still the darkest side of that story, which is that they are deliberately extracting property from the company in order to completely reduce any or all of the potential for being primarily discussed in this case by workers most often for the bankruptcy of the company. These proposed amendments of the law are, of course, precisely ensuring that in these situations late bankruptcy in a situation where bankruptcy is not really enough for workers to be further protected. They put themselves in a more favourable position than they have ever been in bankruptcy situations, and I think that most colleagues here have already pointed out today, so this is a bill that needs to be supported in any case, not as a complete solution as a final solution, but certainly as an important and good first step in the right direction. What I'd just like to say for the end is purely personal. I am so glad that the Ministry of Economy came here today to the Croatian Parliament with one such proposal. Unfortunately, both the Ministry of Economy and the creators of the new government's economic policy in the Republic of Croatia are often exposed to criticism that they are socially insensitive, that they care about large corporations and not workers' rights. The big words are thrown away like neoliberalism and such similar phrases and flossules. It seems to me that this is exactly the first proposal that the Ministry of Economy comes before us in the Croatian Parliament, shows exactly the opposite, shows that the government of the SDP, the HNS, the Kukuriku coalition is actually socially sensitive, is concerned about workers' rights. And this law is a step in this direction and shows that we care about the rights of workers at the time when their rights are most endangered and when they are and in situations where they are absolutely weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4483	Thank you very much, Your Honor. For the HDSSB Club, a hearing of 5 minutes was held by a respected representative. And if you'll excuse me, counsel, we have a replica to present our colleagues. It is a respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ma, I would like to replicate my colleagues' statements that now for the first time, the Kukuriku coalition has appeared as the original protector of the interests of workers who put first orderly on the charge of bankruptcy claims with three minimum salaries. If there was any real will to protect the interests of the people who worked and earned those wages, they wouldn't have stolen them, then it would have written three well-deserved salaries. After a vehement discussion among the papers, I see an amendment where a word is inserted up to three minimum wages, so that someone doesn't accidentally get three minimum salaries and doesn't deserve them. We know what minimum wage is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4485	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4486	I did not say that this was the first time that the Kukuriku coalition appeared as a protector of workers' rights and HNS, SDP, HSU and IDS are sides that have always cared for and cared for the rights of workers systematically and for years. I just said that I am glad that the first proposal with which the Ministry of Economy comes before parliamentary representatives is exactly the kind of proposal that shows concern for the rights of workers and the social sensitivity of this government in the face of frequent criticism that it wants to claim differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4487	Thank you very much. And now respected representative Zoran Vinkovic, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, 5 minutes final.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will repeat what we said in the main debate, the HDSB Club will also be a socially sensitive party that cares for workers but also for all those who live from their work to support this amendment of the law. We really don't see any reason in this amendment to write up to three salaries because the law for all those who have worked for less than three months that provision can't be applied if it enters the very law on bankruptcy itself. But on the other hand, citing all the reasons behind the length of the long-term bankruptcy, from far greater non-representation in the fulfillment of labour claims in the existing law in bankruptcy, from the constant damage and units of local self-government, the state itself, of all other creditors other than banks currently representing one of the extended bankruptcy generators, we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer very quickly and urgently to the parliamentary procedure to the full amendment of the Law on bankruptcy proceedings in order to ensure that those living from their work are protected by law in order for those laws to be protected by the credentials and to protect the units of local self-government as well as by the state itself. We also ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration itself to finally launch the collection mechanisms so that the situation does not occur as at this time that we have almost half of the state budget of outstanding claims that have been caused solely and responsibly by political decisions. The best example is the company Đakovština, at this point workers are struggling to exercise their ownership rights in that company because I don't know which country we live in but the company that went bankrupt, its shares from various programs are still sold and located on the stock exchanges. One such example is "Kio Orahovica" and I do not list a number of other companies that have passed bankruptcy in such a process and which have been liquidated in the bankruptcy itself, workers have lost their jobs, countries without their own incomes, local self-government without their incomes, the company has disappeared, property sold out, and in this place will never be built again or a job will be opened. One of the reasons is certainly Croatia's conversion and privatisation for which to this day, regardless of the number of laws, and even the one about non-depreciation of crime in conversion and privatisation, no one to this day has answered until this moment. We ask this government and the competent ministries to place themselves in the service of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia themselves because if it does not happen already tomorrow, this will be only a fire department, and those who have lived and created 40 or 45 years and not by their guilt will never be charged with their claims but will continue to be banks that gave these loans because someone in local or parliamentary elections should not have been a representative or mayor, and then, through political orders, the bank gave certain loans even though it had everything in front of them that these companies were in charge of not 10, not 20 million, not 30 million kuna, but a billion kuna as it was "Djakovština". And this is an appeal to the Government, and help all today's workers not only with these three salaries but also with real bankruptcy and law where they will get what they've been working for all those years, starting from "Kia" all the way there to all the companies and "Dalmacijavina" and all the companies that are in bankruptcy today or going bankrupt. And on the fight and protection of labour rights here, I would ask the parties to the coalition not to take the workers as much to themselves as HDZ did to create the Republic of Croatia, that there are other parties that care for both workers and peasants and are in their programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4489	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of the defendants for the hearing in 10 minutes and clubs. Does the Proposer's representative want it on the spot? There you are, your esteemed deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly, with thanks to all the committees and all the MPs who took the floor in the debate on this proposal for a law supplementing the bankruptcy law. I think what we all need to be the absolute thought of leadership is the basic message of this law. Regardless of the practice so far, the hard experience, of one truly human feeling and of the injustices that we all feel and feel for every man who finds himself in an unembarkable situation that the company is in bankruptcy, that there's nowhere to settle and that there's nowhere to possibly meet the basic needs of life and regardless of what I'm about to say in defense of this law now is that unfortunately we'll have a chance to see how this works in practice. I would like to personally not test this law in practice but we are all realistic and we know that after the adoption of this law we will actually see the empirical pathway of how it works and then we will actually see that what is proposed by this bill goes in favour of workers as an additional mechanism. This is not a substitut of existing insurance based on the existing Labour Rights Insurance Act in the event of bankruptcy, but an additional protection mechanism. I am pleased on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Ministry that in general, we can conclude in general this law has received your support but above all those who really need us and your support in the future implementation of this law are of course workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4491	Thank you very much. We have one correction, honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4492	I'm just correcting this really as you said it wasn't a substitution of employee claims, but it could become very soon if the law...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4493	What are you correcting, dear colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4494	I'm correcting that quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4495	Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4496	That this isn't a substitute for employee claims. I claim that at this point is unless you go into actual and radical changes to the bankruptcy law as we have stated. And I would like the ministry to have shown itself about our proposal, not just this conditionally stated fire measure that we supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4497	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, you haven't convinced me or the hall that you've fixed something, but keep it that way. We've completed the discussion of clubs, representatives and legislators. We will now stop and vote on the proposal when the conditions are met. We will also stop with the work of today's session and start tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Programme of the European Union Penal Law, P.Z. No. 40. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4498	So we move to a statement on the final draft law on the completion of the bankruptcy law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 31. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 166. I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most of the votes, 85 for, 36 against, 2 abstentions, have adopted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask the applicant's representative to explain the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go. Deputy Minister Mrs. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4499	Thank you, Mr. President. With an apology of course that you have indeed received the amendment of the Government to your desks quite a short time ago, I ask you to respect the apology in order to truly experience this bill in practice full of its meaning for the reason that the Government originally referred to the procedure. Today, during the morning, a meeting was held with all representatives of the unions to clarify the proposed provisions, i.e. to remove any misunderstanding regarding the intention of this law, i.e. to re-emerge with union representatives. So by following a consensus or a conversation with the trade unions that are now being conducted during and session of the Parliament, the government has referred to the Parliament the text of amendments that was found on your benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4500	Thank you very much. A debate where club representatives can participate. Here you go. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic on behalf of the HDSSB Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4501	Thank you, Mr. President. So as much as my memory serves, a few days ago we were just discussing these additions to the bankruptcy law. These amendments didn't kill me, not accepting amendments by the Kukuriku coalition, but I must admit that the government then sent something completely different into the parliamentary procedure and there were three minimum salaries. So not to three minimums but three minimums. Then, as I say, the HNS Club has proposed its amendment to three minimum salaries within that coalition. I think it's after that and we're reacting to the SDP, and now the government is sending the same amendment again that says and changes its original decision in the law and says up to three minimum salaries. So let me remind you, since we are likely to be seen by union representatives who are on high-level talks with the government, this is about the cost of a bankruptcy procedure in which workers are assured to receive three minimum salaries. This up to three minimum salaries may mean that the worker does not get a single salary because it is within, therefore, 0.1.2, and now this up to 3 I do not know if it means 3 minimum salaries, it should talk to those who better understand Croatian about what it means to, whether it includes these 3 minimum salaries. However, these additions to the Banking Act do not solve the very core of the problem in Croatia. The bankruptcy will continue for a long time, workers will still not be able to achieve their claims in the bankruptcy process, and this is practically a kind of social assistance. As long as the government or the competent ministry in the parliamentary procedure, and I also said in the debate then, if they do not know, they will be assisted by the HDSSB club and proposed by the entire bankruptcy law in which workers must be the ones who will indeed be in the first payment order. They will then be followed by a unit of local self-government and state, creditors and then by business banks that gave these companies loans often under political pressure. So we can support this in a way that the Government gives up this amendment and says that these are 3 minimum average salaries in the Republic of Croatia. We understand the intention of protecting workers, but such an amendment changes the essence of the first proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which shows one inconsistency and inconclusion in protecting workers' rights, so I am right to wonder where this red color in social democracy went when the essence of all of this is perhaps 5 or 6 thousand kuna of minimum salaries in the Republic of Croatia, which each worker should receive in the cost of bankruptcy. To the very end, regarding the Peljega Bridge itself, I couldn't say that, if it hadn't been for the Fimi-media and the black bags there would have been three pebbly bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4502	Please. No, no, no, no, look at Article 214. Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. The next word came out on behalf of the Croatian Labour Labour Party Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4503	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we are in a situation where the Government with amendments to its draft laws and state budget comes after the debate has ended, we have always been restrained by such an approach because it is simply amazing that, with all the great preparations for taking over power and big words at the moment when the government was given confidence almost that there is no law that the Government does not correct its amendments after the debate expires. This is a classic example. During the debate in the draft law of counterpart Tušak, saying on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, he warned of two important facts, that the text of the law that came to the Parliament was not identical to what representatives of the union heard by verbal exposure of one member of the government. So, on the Economic Social Council, there was no text of the law, there was an oral presentation. And if we were all reading the government's proposal, he was actually voting, that if there was no money in the payout fund in the bankruptcy procedure, three minimum salaries would be recognised on the burden of bankruptcy. At that time, an amendment to the ruling club flew in, where even three went to three. This amendment to the government is actually a change of law if we now read well and ask the Deputy Minister to remove any misunderstanding. Whether this amendment amends the law in such a way that workers in the bankruptcy process will be entitled to three payments from the fund and up to 3 payments from the bankruptcy mass in the bankruptcy procedure. It is, read carefully you will see the formulations. It is necessary to read the whole of the law, the reasoning and debates that have been given about it. Of course, this is an attempt to intervene in a bankruptcy procedure to help workers who are almost in no way coming to pay their wages. But without a completely new bankruptcy law, we won't be able to do much, especially because the biggest problem in Croatia is what happens in companies before the formal opening of the bankruptcy procedure when companies, companies, are peeled to the bone so that this repair of the law again won't be of great benefit if the bankruptcy does not allow that payment. And before the final decision on that, really explain what this amendment means. I also thank the President of the Parliament and everyone who has contributed to creating enough time for the Government to sit down with the social partners once again and read what she wrote in her bill, but with a lesson in the debate, when representatives' clubs warn that the provision is unclear, unarranged, that otherwise or more ways can be interpreted by the representatives of the Government we expect to react immediately. Not two, three days behind, with the amendments after the debate. Maybe a day later to open the debate, so make sure what was proposed in the law. It is important, Mr. President, before raising hands on the amendment that the deputy minister once again explain the content of the amendment to the question of three salaries from the fund and up to 3 from the bankruptcy. Is that so?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4504	Thank you very much. That's how I understood that after the debate by the representatives of the clubs it would be. Now I'm just not sure who raised her before her hands whether Mrs. Kosor or Mr. Baranovic, so I'd just like to. You're giving us a head start? Here you go. He gave you a head start. Madam Vice President Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4505	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, Mr. President, our club wants to point out really well-intentioned problems and nomotechnical but everyone else with this amendment. But of course from this or from this political aspect, I must say that just on the example of this amendment it is true and that he meant exactly the Prime Minister when he said representing the budget, that here, that the new one is sometimes cloudy. This amendment shows that in the coalition, the ruling coalition is indeed sometimes ruled by government and confusion and that certain decisions are made completely unconcerned and unconformed. So I join all those who have pointed out the amendments so far, to the debate, to the original proposal of this law. However, what I want to warn you about, as well as our professional services, that is, decisions. Because of course we will not vote in favour of that amendment at the Croatian Democratic Community club. But I'm warning other colleagues. In fact, there's a big nomotechnical problem. Here the amendment refers to a law governing workers' claims, but the law is described. So, the law is described in detail, so I quote, "The law governing the claims of workers in the event of bankruptcy by employers." I guess it was meant to be a law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy by employers. Therefore, the law which is referred to the amendment cannot be described, but must specify the exact name of that law. So, the big letter, and then the law on the insurance of workers' claims in case of bankruptcy by employers. It's a nomotechnical problem. But we have, of course, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament and the amendments to be adopted must comply with this Rules of Procedure. If you adopt this amendment you will not actually know which law is referred to, because the law is not specified correctly. And of course, by respecting all the things the deputy lady said about talking to the union centers. I have to say we don't know anything about that. We've heard it for the first time now. On the benches alone, we have a request of five union centres asking us as an agent to ask the government to withdraw the bankruptcy law from the procedure until all these misunderstandings are resolved. And they rightly warn of the practice of this government, that in fact all laws are passed by emergency procedure, sufficiently unprepared, sufficiently unexplained and with the inability of professional and any other public, and, above all, citizens and citizens to get to know each other and to make their remarks. Therefore, Mr. President, I ask you to suggest to the Government that today we do not vote on this law, or that we do not give our support on this amendment or that we do not declare it. I think we're going to get even deeper into problems, or first of all the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4506	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4507	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister, dear ladies and gentlemen. At the HNS Club, the essence of this amendment to the Banking Procedure Act was clear at the very beginning. It is true that we have also noticed that it would be good to correct the text in order to be more comprehensible in the reading of the law, so we have proposed an amendment, given that in this amendment the Government is content, I will not look back on the nomotechnics, but it is much better explained as to what additional labour rights are being done. We believe that our amendment is losing its meaning and, for this reason, the CNS is withdrawing its amendment. Given that it is an additional right of workers, that is to say, to amend the laws that the workers of the Republic of Croatia in the event of bankruptcy bring into a more favourable position and give them the opportunity to exercise additional rights other than those provided for in the special Act on the protection of workers in the event of bankruptcy, the HNS will also support this amendment and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4508	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4509	This is actually about intervention in the bankruptcy law. A few days ago, Finance Minister Mr. Linic presented information that in this country, around a million and 780,000 people owe to the state or to the para-state authorities about 50 billion kuna. So I even dare say that all these people are not a problem, the problem is simply the system in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia simply live. It can't be that every third citizen of the Republic of Croatia is a loan shark or something. It's the hardest in the small sector right now. Workers are in the first payment order, however, bankruptcy procedures, as we all know, take place indefinitely. While property after being carried out under the quotes of "the bankruptcy plan" what some call bankruptcy with a reshuffle is put into operation and has passed for several years, and people have to live until then. Mostly at this time I'd dare say it's not even possible to cash the property. The bankruptcy manager said he had to offer that bankruptcy plan or that bankruptcy with the reshuffle as some call it. Once a bankruptcy I dare say before it's over for some company than a fresh start or a new life for that company. That's how it's been so long, at this time of year, I'm afraid there'll be a future. And so much minimum, though if this is an amendment to the Government, but if the Government has referred to the CNS amendment, if they are willing to give up on that amendment well, but in any case it should cost 3 salaries. Not up to 3 salaries, because there is Mr. Vinkovic absolutely right, anyone can at a given time and interpret the case as being his opportunist. So I don't think there's going to be any exaggeration if the government is verbally now intervening in the amendment and clearly unequivocally saying that this is about three salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4510	Thank you very much. She's finished discussing the club representatives. And now, given the calls made by the club representatives, I would like to ask Ms. Deputy Economy Minister Tamara Obradović Mazal to show himself here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4511	Thank you, Mr. President. I owe you an answer to a question on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. The answer is yes. So, once again allow me, in the cost of bankruptcy I will use a little mathematical formula if you allow me to enter claims higher than 3 unpaid salaries that are secured by a special law, on three outstanding salaries in height and under the circumstances prescribed by a special law is added up to three salaries based on this law and when I say that I am asking you to allow me to use the mathematical formula at this point in certain companies, workers are looking for, say, 4 unpaid salaries. So on today there may be a company in Croatia whose workers have not been paid in the last 3, 4 or 5, or 6 months. This formulation allows companies that have not paid workers, let's say 4 months' wages that according to this formula they will actually get, such workers will get 3 + 1 salary based on this item. Which means in the case of a worker who's looking for 4 pay formulations that like you asked Agent Cain to remove the word up. If we remove a word to a worker who today has a claim on his salary name 3 + 1 salary, i.e. he is owed 4 salaries, if we remove the word to this law he will receive 6 salaries. Today there are companies that owe 5 salaries, so 4 salaries. This formulation then allows the cost of the bankruptcy procedure to include as much pay as three as is realistically due on today and due. I hope that this explanation is clear enough, logical enough and that, of course, it is sufficiently logical and clearly explained as you have told the unions, but above all, the workers who are in these very conditions that this is clearly explained enough. As far as the nomotechnic part is concerned, I thank you. I agree that the law should be explicitly specified, you are absolutely right in this segment and in this sense thanks to the Committee on Law, Presidents Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, who in fact corrected this one nomotechnical, one no-technical failure by the amendment of the Legislative Committee which we will, of course, accept so that there is no legal uncertainty and that the legal statement of appeal to the law is very clear and precise. Do I owe you anything else?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4512	Thank you very much. But we do have a correction to the incorrect assumption, which is a little awkward because then you can't get an answer from the Deputy Minister. He can't, but he can pick up later, you know. Here you go. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4513	I'm correcting a lot of incorrect allegations, the meaning of an incorrect assumption is that we can't mix pears and apples. The requests of the workers in the bankruptcy proceedings are subject to the current law and can be paid no matter how much they pay. And it doesn't have to be 3, 4, 5 or 6 they're paid out of bankruptcy. These 3 salaries, as originally proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, relate to the costs of the bankruptcy process. And they mean that workers who cannot exercise their right of bankruptcy in a bankruptcy process receive that practically one-time social aid in the amount of three minimum salaries at the expense of the bankruptcy process. That's the basis. And that was the intensity I understood and the government's intention. Until the amendments finally complicated and clouded the water of that law. So this government amendment is even more vague than the amendments submitted by the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-21-0.u4514	That's your opinion. Thank you, which you're entitled to. I am concluding the debate on this amendment. And I am voting on the amendments to the government. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes 83 for, 31 against, 6 abstentions have been accepted by the government's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. The amendment was also submitted by the Legislative Committee. The HNS representative's club has withdrawn its own, so I request a statement from the motionary's representative. You have already said that you agree with the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much. That's recorded. Then I'm closing the argument. And I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes 89 for, 21 against, 7 abstentions have been passed by the Law supplementing the bankruptcy law in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
