ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17337	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here in this united debate in the shortest lines we will try to present the novels proposed by the Energy Law and the Energy Regulation Act. Let me begin by thanking you for the discussions held on the parliamentary committees on which we presented these drafts and, of course, heard your opinions. Regarding the draft Energy Law, but also related to the Energy Regulation Act, let me say that by the end of the year we will be on a similar basis. In fact, the Energy Act in accordance with the third package of directives governing energy at European Union level, the Energy Act is a roof law, which together with the Energy Regulatory Act, but also the Law on the electricity market and the Law on the gas market, makes a package for the third package of directives at European Union level, which we will hold for discussion in the Croatian Parliament by the end of the year. In this way, by taking commitments from accession negotiations to full membership, we must implement, therefore not only adopt but also start implementing a fully transposed third package of energy directives, which means, in domestic legislation, the primary Energy Act, and the related Law on the regulation of energy activities, electricity markets and the Gas Market Act. As regards the Energy Act, the objectives achieved by this final proposal of the law are that it refers to all activities in the energy sector and provides guidance on the making of laws describing individual energy markets and treats the energy market from the common platform. In addition, the law provides for the adoption of tariff items in tariff systems, i.e. the adoption of a price or tariff according to methodologies to be transferred from the Government to energy entities with the approval of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, including gas, electricity and heat. In order to ensure regular supply of energy, the Republic of Croatia is considered a responsible market. I think one of the committees has been asked what this really means in practice and how the market is considered responsible for the regular supply of energy. On the one hand, it is the responsibility of market operators supplying citizens and their consumers with energy. However, we also have, of course, possible other situations, it is about possible emergency conditions and conditions when market disturbances occur. At that time, the sector and everything that makes the energy sector and distributors and operators must be prepared, which means that the state, i.e. national authorities, have an obligation to ensure security of supply and, above all, through development planning to ensure that energy operators in Croatia are safe, in order to be reliable about the supply, or supply of their consumers, and that there is sufficient energy in the requested quantities if there is an emergency situation. Also in this segment, what is expected is that energy facilities are and examined, that locations for their technical conditions are approved, that they are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and that owners through that obligation ensure their reliable work. So the whole chain is actually at the level of standard and quality that ensures safe supply of energy. What is also proposed by this law is to establish a clear relationship between market energy activities such as production, supply and trade and regulated energy activities such as the management of distribution transport or transmission networks. We are also introducing a guarantee system for the origin of electricity and in this segment we are in line with the Directive on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. In addition, all energy produced from renewable energy sources must be balanced into a quota of consumption of the Republic of Croatia. There are also rules in the quality of energy to be introduced by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. And what is also very important is to determine the position of end-users who must, or must have special protection measures because of their social status. So, we're talking about endangered customers from the base of their material status, but also from the other side of the protected customers as to security reasons. This law is also linked to the proposal for a law on energy regulation. What is in some way a trend that has led to the amendment of the directive itself at European Union level, and, in addition, the change in our domestic legislation through this proposal is one long-term monitoring on-the-spot at Member State level of how regulators actually function in national frameworks, or whether they are sufficiently independent, whether they fulfil their function completely unburdened by the execution, i.e. by the executive authority. And what the analysis itself of the application of all national rules in practice at Member State level has shown is that the effectiveness of regulators in the energy sector is not appropriate and that, in fact, regulators in Member States do not show sufficient independence in their work in relation to the executive authority due to the lack of sufficient broad powers and discretion. And precisely from that base, it is the third package of the Directive, which imposes the need to ensure that, through all the Member States of the European Union, the regulator must have the possibility, the right and powers to make decisions on all relevant issues in order to ensure that the internal market and electricity and natural gas work properly and be fully independent of all other public or private interests. What we hold to be achieved through the adoption of this bill is that HERA will strengthen its independence and independence from all other public or private entities including the executive authority, so including the motionor himself and the Government, as well as the competent ministry, in this case the Ministry of Economy. In addition, what will be possible for the employees and responsible persons themselves at HERA level, so for the persons in charge of managing HERA, it is for them to act independently when carrying out regulatory tasks, i.e. the adoption of appropriate regulatory acts. And also, what HERA gets from this bill are greater normative, executive and supervisory powers. Therefore, enlargement, a substantial extension of the power to act on HERA, and it is particularly important that these powers are extended to both the area of prices and the compensation for regulated activities. In addition, HERAs will also be able to better promote and monitor, achieve, monitor the achievement of the general objectives of energy sector regulation such as promoting a competitive, safe and sustainable internal market for electricity and natural gas, efficient opening of the market for electricity trade, facilitating the network for new production facilities, fostering energy efficiency and environmental protection. In short, in this united presentation of both laws, I thank you for your attention. And of course we will answer every question that can be asked during the debate. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17338	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee rapporteurs, the working bodies want to take part in the debate? Here you are, honourable representative Vinkovic of the Committee for Local and Regional and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17339	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputies, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On 10 October, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government held its session where he discussed these draft laws. Following the introduction of the applicant in the Committee's discussion, the question of energy prices as well as how to decide on the level of energy for construction was raised. It is also mentioned the question of Article 48 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A law providing for fines and for units of local self-government, for possible violations for which units are not competent and which may not affect their existence. And after the debate was held, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government decided by a majority vote of 7 votes in favour and 2 votes against to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass this Energy Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17340	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Board. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is club IDS and respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17341	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministry, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. The introduction of this law literally says that the adoption of this law will contribute to the creation of a comprehensive and quality legal framework for other laws, sublegal regulations in the field of energy of the Republic of Croatia, which is of great importance for the operation of energy entities, but also for the comprehensive launch of the economy. Then we talk about basic issues that need to be regulated by law and by the consequences that law will take place. This should be achieved by the following objectives, I quote: "The amendment of existing definitions, the introduction of a guarantee system, the origin of electricity, will create assumptions for compliance with the directive, equal treatment of energy customers, i.e. the elimination of the category of privileged and tariff buyers in the electricity and gas sectors. It is then discussed to ensure regular supply of energy to the Republic of Croatia, the adoption of tariff items in tariff systems, i.e. the adoption of prices or tariffs according to methodologies transferred from the Government to the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, etc., etc." The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency will bring general conditions of energy supply, which will include measures to protect final customers and not to list everything else. It may only be that the position of end-users that they must, or may have special protection measures for their social status (hazarded customers) or security reasons is determined, are so-called. "protected" clear customers. So between the lines, this law is a kind of assumption for energy investments in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that we who come from Istria and the Priory are burdened with those Plomino 3 or Plomina C. I don't know what the Istra County Assembly will do on Monday but I think you should say no to coal first. Why? Because 3 km from Plomina passes the pipeline where the gas from the Istrian submersible or Croatian submersible leads anyway to Zagreb, or down to Dalmatia, assures us that LNG thermals should be built soon on Krk. The coal current is more expensive than the gas. Tyrelli last I will tell the Croat who built a thermal power plant on coal in the Republic of Croatia. Croatian gas is sold to Italy. From Italy we import expensive electricity produced from this gas from the Croatian submersible. The coal power plant won't hire new people, it sure would. The coal power plant is good, I dare say the export work of those who will be chosen for that concession, whether it will be the Koreans, the Russians, the Poles, the Italians, it remains to be seen. The coal power plant costs at least 800m euros, on gas somewhere around 400m euros. The share of domestic operations cannot be in the construction of the thermal power plant at least 200m to 300m euros, as the ministry's representatives assure us if the construction of the ipsilon costs about 250m euros. This thermal power plant frees Croatia from significant imports of electricity, it is absolutely correct, but local self-government must know that gas or coal rent would be the same, and in health I simply will not waste words, and that is certainly what is most important and what others should discuss. I don't want to talk about it anymore, but I'm sure I'm waiting for the Istra County Assembly to decide. I have previously quoted the basic issues that need to be regulated by law, i.e. the consequences that legislation will result from equal treatment of consumers of energy, i.e. the removal of categories of privileged and tariff buyers in the electricity and gas sector, and all the way up to the regulation of the position of end customers who have to, or may have special protection measures because of their social status or their social threat or safety reasons if we talk about protected customers. So this law I'd say is a small one, or these laws are a pardon for a small legitimate energy revolution. So this is it. The electricity is that all you have to do is pay. The gatherings this year were more than significant. If I'm not mistaken, the gas is up 22%, the electricity has accumulated 20% of the value of being honest and admitting that for hospitals, for schools, part of the economic operators, the gas should be cheaper if I'm not cheating on those 6.6%. I guess these gatherings are justified by some new investments in the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia. It has been announced that Croatia should now mention 1 billion euros, a hydropower plant on the Sava 800m euros, a hydropower plant on the Drava 350m euros, Kosinj-Senj 650m euros, LNG Krk 600m euros, a thermopower plant in Rijeka to restore 450m euros, a wind power plant of 400m euros, a hydropower plant in Dubrovnik 170m euros, an OMBLA hydropower plant somewhere around 140m euros. I read one title ADRIS already provided money for the Cosinj-Senj 2 project of 650m euros. Recently, Mr. Cacic, the first deputy prime minister of the government, revealed that the project is an extremely interested domestic investor with means of security. It is thought of ADRIS, but according to media accounts, it says that this investment, and it is good that they are interested, is good that they even go there, but according to media accounts, this investment in Lovdać will return, already over a period of 5 years. Which is why some others are asking the question, if one such investment of 650m euros is returned to the investor over a period of 5 years, which is why it should be left to domestic or foreign investors in the first place instead of perhaps trying to profit from it directly through Croatia's electricity industry or HEP. The fact is, on the other hand, that Croatia is literally calling for investment, so to speak, without foreign investment in this year. The first 6 months of foreign investment were at the level of post-war 1996 and in 2010 it was only 154m euros, according to the latest data we received from the Croatian National Bank. On page 6, this law mentions, among other things, the threatened customers, these are the customers of energy from the category of household which, because of their social or health status, have the right to supply energy under special conditions. What social opportunities are I'm afraid almost everyone should be in the status of so-called. an endangered buyer. But to be back now, perhaps only with a sentence or two on this Plomin 3 or C. And the key to this law, as I see it, is this Article 7 and 6. Article 6 literally reads, quotes Article 6(1) and Article 7(1): "That, on the basis of the Energy Development Strategy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts a programme of implementation of the Energy Development Strategy, which sets out measures, operators of activities, dynamics, implementation of energy policy and implementation of national energy programmes, how to cooperate with local and regional (regional) self-government bodies in the area of planning the development of the energy sector and cooperation with energy entities and with international organisations." And Article 7 paragraph A states: "That units of local self-government and units of the area, regional self-government is required in its development documents to plan the needs and way of energy supply and to coordinate such documents with the energy development strategy and the energy development strategy.". I'm asking myself whether in this constitution now legal solutions means whether local self-government can, let's just say not to some government decisions. Whether the basis of these legal solutions is local self-government, it does not matter whether it is municipalities, cities, or counties exclusively must obey government decisions. I think in some ways we should attribute that citizens, perhaps in referendums, have the right to say we're against some kind of energy. No one in Istria is against investment, not even in the area of electricity in the sector, but all apriors are against coal as energy. Secondly, let's even let those stories go that after the construction of Plomina or this block 3, the air in Plomino will either be cleaner than in Zagreb. If that were the case, this benefit for Labinjane or Labinjone would not have happened to Istria, but would have happened to some other center, perhaps first of all Zagreb. But let's let it go now. Other parts of this law seem logical to me, except to mention that the 1999 spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia said that by 2015 no coal thermal power plants would be built in Croatia, or atomic power plants would not be built. However, I hope that the council members of the Istria County Assembly will say no to that coal. The law has absolute, and it should be fair good parts, it talks about renewable energy sources, it talks about the electricity market, it talks about restoring operational reserves, but also about what makes citizens the most difficult, which is the price of energy itself. Thus, Articles 28, 29 literally states: "The energy prices for final customers contain part of the price freely negotiated, part of the price regulated and can be determined by applying the tariff system, fees and other duties prescribed by specific regulations.". Article 29 states: "The tariff system shall constitute a prescribed methodology and the amount of the tariff item." Among other things, in paragraph 6. "The tariff items should enable the calculation of the energy price for the accounting period." etc. etc. I said this year's electricity was up 20%, which is about 40 kuna per family as calculated by the department. With the price of energy, and I mean here and oil, in some ways one good government decision on reducing health contributions from 15% to 13%. We like to say that in this way the economy has returned 3 billion kuna, but through electricity, gasoline, etc. Energy, I'm not going to say it's all melted, but the fact is that for many of it, we simply can't call the government, or "not to be called" the government, it can be called, but it shouldn't be because the government neither affects the price of oil nor affects the price of gas, nor can it have a dominant effect on the price of energy. What's important is this connection fee, i.e. the system developed in Article 33.I quote "The methodology of determining the compensation for joining the network of new systems and for increasing the capacity of existing energy entities and end-users is carried out by the Agency. The methodology is based on objective, transparent, impartial principles and the principle of economic performance of the connection". Those fees I dare say I won't say draconian but I'll say sometimes exaggerated. That detimises the construction. In order for someone to get a building permit, say for a 200 square-square house, so in what environment, it's clearly not the same in one Poreč or in one Buzet, but in all these basics, the connections are over a hundred thousand kunas. There is always a fee for increased energy, etc. And in the end, I dare say that these fines or infractions are indeed dragonish. It may be necessary to increase the sentence in Article 47(1). That anyone joining the energy system without the approval of an energy subject without energy consumption or the energy consumption cannot be determined by a fine of 5 to 50 000 kuna. Where or where it can be determined, there may be fines even small, but we have some fines from 20 thousand to 500 thousand kuna. And in these circumstances, I think it would be likely for legal persons, though, that we should have a little more understanding not to say feelings. All in all, it's certain that this is about one required law but I don't think I'm going to say it's degraded in some way, but it marginalizes local self-government, predicting, for example, the situations that are exactly at work in Istria with a height of Plomina 3. I don't think it's fair to the local population, although I'm aware of the fact that energy from Croatian thermal power plants, especially at this time without investment, and I said that investments in the Republic of Croatia fell to the level of '96. or crisis in 2010 is something that needs to be changed. Once again, I want to believe that the Istra County Assembly will say no to that coal. Why? Because I repeat three kilometers from Plomin passes the pipeline where the gas from the northern Croatian or Istrian submarine leads to Zagreb and Dalmatia. We are convinced that LNG is soon moving on Krk, I repeat, according to the people who last built the thermal power plants on coal is more expensive than from gas. Croatia sells its gas from Italy we import a set of electricity produced from Croatian gas. The gas power plant won't hire new people, it certainly would. Coal thermal power plant is a good export business, I like to say for those companies that will receive concessions in the Republic of Croatia's coal area cost 800 to one billion euros, on the gas 400m euros, and the share of domestic industry will certainly not be as mentioned. I said health before that I would not mention it, although I am sure that the additional capacity that will generate electricity in Croatia would free Croatia from significant imports of electricity, which means providing foreign exchanges for the same electricity. THE Coal - flat one had its own logic. The same guy Tito opened up somewhere in the '70s. Why? Because it saved 2,000 jobs in the Istrian coal mines of Tulje, Kraš, etc. And today in Istria, we no longer have any miners, that is, only a memory of mining, and that is why, through such energy, we provide another good job for all those who will drive that coal through this form or that form into Istria. All in all, we are required to clearly support this law but what bothers me most in the law is whether local self-government can say not to certain government decisions? And on the other hand, why does the government, for example, does not adhere to the energy of the '99 Plomino spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia where it is clearly unequivocally decided said that by 2015 it will not be explored or build TE on coal or atomic energy?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17342	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Agent Cain. We've got two lines reported. He is the first respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17343	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here I decided to replicate my colleague Caine because he composed his discussion in the section and mostly referred to a possible new TE Plomin C. It's really wonderful, nice to listen here that he's trying from the position of the man who in the ruling coalition means the power, it's nice when we listen to criticism within that same coalition and the authorities, but the vote has so far shown that Mr Cain has always raised his hand whenever it was necessary for any legal proposal of that coalition. Now about Plomin C, and I agree that what is written in the spatial-planned documentation of the Republic of Croatia should be respected. However, the fact is that precisely the IDS and the party that Mr. Cain belongs to right on that Plomin C and in that coal somehow choked that adjective of his let's tell the goat which IDS symbol and that goat is here with that project at least among the people who trusted them over the past 20 years, the goat is dead. And you Mr. Cain still say you're trying to argue here in one way that perhaps many are incomprehensible, and basically it's called demagogy, and what you're doing doesn't contribute to what your citizens have given you, which is to protect them because you've been in power there for 20 years. And it is actually incomprehensible that you, as a government in Istria, as people who exercise authority in Istria County today, on Tuesday or Wednesday, do not know how your assembly will vote on Monday. In fact, you know very well how you will vote and it will be a surprise if that assembly votes against what you are saying here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17344	Thank you very much, time. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17345	Dear colleague, the goat lives forever, the goat will outlive me and you and that goat has fed me, perhaps you, but it feeds you well in this House and in the Republic of Croatia. I don't know how the Council of the County of Istria will vote, I don't know, because I'm not a member of that county body. Although I was carrying a list for the Paris County Assembly and I call on the council to say not carbon clear, decidated, I don't know how else I could say it. Gentlemen, trust your citizens who have given you a mandate, do not raise your hand for coal. And it is not true that Damir Cain, for every act proposed by the Government, raises his hand. And Cain lives forever. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17346	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Agent Cain. The next replica is the respected representatives of Nada Turina-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17347	So because of the public who follows the start of the debate over this very important, roof energy law where it's not a Plomin C topic, it's only an indirect subject of Plomin C because it's a discussion of Mr. Caine's 10-minute exposure to whether or not Plomin C, that the public knows that we won't vote when we vote this bill on whether we're going to build and how we're going to build Plomin C, but we're going to vote on one roof energy law. So I would ask for the public's interest because I assumed that this discussion would be very heated and reasoned and that our representatives would also advocate some improvements under this law regarding the future prices that our citizens would have for energy, but that there would be referendum questions about Plomin C, we did not expect. Well, here's what I'd like to appeal to go back to the important topic, although I don't think Plamin C is an important topic, but it's certainly not the subject of this law, so when we vote and adopt this law, the citizens wouldn't think we voted for Plomin C, but we're voting on the roof energy law for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17348	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17349	... social moments, along with Puris going bankrupt, along with this forest land, i.e. alienation of the same by the state or the state's attorney. [[Specially enabled.]] Plomin C is not only indirect, but Plomin C is essentially an Istrian issue that is being discussed so brother to brother out there since '95. the years here and so many gentlemen MPs and ruling coalitions and opposition have as much understanding as the council members of the County of Istria should have understanding of the opportunities of their citizens in the platinum and in Istria when it comes to selecting energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17350	Thank you very much. The next club is the SDP club of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and a respected representative of Zlatko Komadin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17351	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. Allow me a few words on behalf of the Croatian SDP club. It has already been shown in the opening debate that everyone understands energy, that in particular our citizens are understood in the part where it collects fuel or when it collects electricity, and I am deeply convinced that this law will be an opportunity to clearly discuss through individual discussions everything that has to do with energy and energy. That's how it's usually done in our Parliament, and a little bit of it will be tied to this law itself. I will try to concentrate on this part of the law, but I still have to give an introductory explanation because in the SDP, we are looking forward first and foremost to discussing energy in the Croatian Parliament and to adopt legislative regulations. But I also have to say openly that at the same time we are at a great distance because we are actually discussing documents, we are discussing energy development strategy, energy law package, gas market, electricity market, and in the same 20 years, the Croatian state has not moved or built any energy facility except somewhere else maybe repairing the balance in electricity production somewhere for 50 megawatts by repairing or modernising a single hydropower plant. No country that thinks well of its citizens can afford the luxury of not having the production capacity enough to produce electricity that it spends in its country. Not only does it have to have more capacity and you know it yourself because of the specificity of electricity production, because sometimes you just have a market disturbance like it was in the case of the Ukrainian crisis and problems or in the case of drought when you don't have enough rainfall to produce electricity from the hydro power plant. But it is good to say that we are also solving this legislative framework. But actually that's why I'm saying this introductively we don't have that much choice about this package of laws. We just have to accept them. They are part of the European Union's legislative legislation and are not negotiated or left with the European Union with due respect. Therefore, we simply need to coordinate that part because we are under monitoring and as far as we know, and I think that the legislators of the economics ministry law and said that we have already received criticism from the European Union in that part that we are late with this third harmonisation package. In fact, Croatia must ensure on one side the diversification of energy and energy sources, so it must produce both coal and oil and gas, of course, by trying as much from renewable sources as it will say hydropotentially as Croatia has, but it has what God has given and this is the position in terms of solar energy. So we have a biomass forest. We produce through Croatian forests a good part of wood waste. Thus, biomass is something that must also find places, and on the other hand it is again in some way a condition of the European Union. By 2020, we have to fill in what 3x20 means reducing the consumption of fossil fuels or emissions to the environment better said by 20%. We need to increase production in the share of renewable energy sources by 20% and increase energy efficiency by 20% since our esteemed first Deputy Prime Minister said we are not throwing out the energy windows. He explained it a little differently, but unfortunately it is true that our buildings spend energy far more than European buildings and that our isolation or way of building, however, now something changes in the regulation on this subject and in building because simply that part is not really necessary and that we are throwing out produced energy. In Croatia, the only thing I must possibly say is that my HDZ colleagues would not go with many replicas, yet something small has been done in energy, which is the gasification of Croatia. In that part, since the Adriatic was explored, and since a gas well from the Adriatic Sea was released, the pipeline has been made for both southern and Adriatic parts of Croatia, so that, apart from the northern part of Croatia today, it is possible to actually gasify a good part of the Primorje-Gorski County. The conditions and the gasification of the Istrian County are starting, and the pipeline has also reached Dalmatia, Split. Therefore, the conditions are created for gasification and that part, which is very important for the simple reason that gas is the cleanest fossil fuel, means no sulphur and other residues, and what is important for Croatia as a tourist country not to actually pollute the environment. And in that part, I agree in principle with my colleague Caine that the more we build gas capacity, the more we must also be aware that we do not have gas capacity. Namely, the gas that's in this tube that's coming from the Adriatic if you could connect to any thermal power plant that's no longer there for anyone. Therefore, this gas is for a wider consumption, and the gas for energy could be obtained by further drilling on the one hand or by actually building LNG terminals on the other. I'll probably report for an individual debate so you don't wander off to LNG and other projects because there's something I'd like to say about your previous experience on the subject. So, I don't owe you one. The SDP club, of course, will surprise you, will support the adoption of this law for the simple reason that it is primarily in line with European legislation. So in terms of open energy and energy markets. It also strengthens the situation with that other law and our Regulatory Energy Agency and its independence on the one hand, and in fact it encourages which is also very important to increase the production of green energy as it will say from renewable energy sources because there we have to make additional efforts, because today's regulation simply does not enable, try to connect to the electrical network in the sense that you are a small electricity producer. First, it'll take you a couple of years to collect one 60, 70 of our certificates and everything you need to get in order to connect to the network. Therefore, it is simply necessary to resolve the roof law, to make novels such as this Law on the Croatian Energy Agency, behind which the law on the gas market and the Law on the electricity market and, in addition, sublegal acts so that they can become efficient and create conditions for building energy capacities in Croatia. I thank my colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17352	Thank you. It was an economically and compromised position of the SDP club. We are going to the club HSU and the respected representative Ljiljana Cvetović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17353	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. It is therefore the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to implement a reform in the field of energy legislation in accordance with European market standards. The reform of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia began in 2001 when the Energy Law adopted the first energy law package to regulate the implementation of certain energy activities. These laws set up a basic legislative framework for the reorganisation of the energy sector, the opening of the energy market and the regulation of energy activities. The basic act establishing energy policy and planning energy development is the Energy Development Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The energy development strategy sets out national energy programmes, energy investments needed, incentives for investment in renewable sources and cogeneration to increase energy efficiency and improve environmental protection measures. I particularly highlight the fact that for the first time a legal obligation is clearly defined to end customers under special protection, and these are protected and threatened customers. Article 39 of the Law sets out the position of end-users who, for security and social reasons, may have special protection measures under certain circumstances and conditions. The obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to adopt the Regulation on the criterion for obtaining the status of a protected buyer with protection measures and the Regulation on the criterion for obtaining the status of a threatened buyer and the scope of the right while the authorities are obliged to determine the status of a threatened buyer and the level of social support to the threatened buyer. We are aware that from day to day the number of households that are increasingly difficult to meet their monetary obligations is therefore welcome any effort to ease some of the almost unsustainable social situation. The basic issues to be addressed by law include the issue of price or tariff adoption. The proposal for a law on the adoption of tariff items in tariff systems, i.e. the adoption of a price or tariff, shall be transmitted from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Energy Regulatory Agency. So the price definition is no longer involved in politics, and that is what we consider important. It is also good that the proposed legal provisions promote the efficient use of energy and use of renewable energy sources. The efficient use of energy and the use of renewable energy sources and cogenerations are declared of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of Article 14 of this Law lay down the possibility of establishing a National Energy Efficiency Agency and renewable energy sources, as well as the possibility of establishing regional energy agencies for the purpose of monitoring and planning energy consumption, the promotion of energy efficiency and the development of renewable energy sources. The provisions of this article come from positive European practices relating to the establishment of energy agencies. The creation of a more quality regulatory framework in the field of energy will certainly contribute to the launch of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, which is crucial because without economic growth, we cannot expect positive shifts to be opened. Since energy legislation has become one of the important segments on the road to EU membership, it is of paramount importance that the necessary reform of the energy sector is carried out more effectively. This law will certainly create a more favourable legal basis for other laws and regulations in the field of energy of the Republic of Croatia with the task of enabling energy operators to operate under new conditions. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Pensions Party will support the adoption of this Energy Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17354	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Next is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Đuro Popijač. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17355	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. One of the most spent topics of this government is energy or in a broader sense energy. The very beginning of this government's mandate marked a set of unfortunate decisions that resulted in a dramatic rise in gas prices and electricity prices that we are not talking about oil derivatives and despite the express rise in VAT and the rise in energy prices clearly showed the direction where this government will go. A strong blow to the standard of citizens and an increase in the cost of business were, in fact, the sole goal of filling the state budget. Despite warnings about the consequences of this decision, the government remained consistent with the pro-recession measures. Unfortunately, today we are already witnessing the result of this economic policy. GDP decline, dramatic growth in unemployment, drop in consumption, drop in investment, drop in economic activity, increase in cost of life. The latest information on the 5% inflation rate is another sad implication of the government's destructive policy. The decline in consumption takes its toll in the energy sector as well. According to some data this year, electricity consumption at the level of annual consumption of two cities of the size of Zadar has been reduced. The same thing happens with natural gas, and the continuous decline in oil consumption already takes alarming sizes. The causes are quite clear, the biggest drop in energy consumption occurred in the economy. It's totally logical and why. The deterioration of business conditions, the tax press and the hostile attitude towards the private sector lead to a shut-down of entrepreneurial and economic activities. The consumption of diesel fuel is almost in a linear correlation with the growth of the economy. All are the obvious consequences of this policy, except for the current government. The population faced already with new electricity payments, the arrival of the first cold days and the first real gas bills is yet to be shocked. Both gas and electricity were not collected by 20% or 19%, Mr. Caine, the totals are more than 35% of what we warned about and when we made these decisions this spring. And that depends, of course, on the distributors in each area. Here, it's true that it confirms the latest heat announcements that the heating will collect by over 35 or 40%. What are the consequences of all this? Energy price growth is reportedly leading to a rise in prices of products and services. The citizens' response is simple, lower consumption, lower demand, lower production, fewer employees, and lower revenues to the state budget and lower revenues from energy companies. The exact opposite effect of the one predicted by the government. The indicators of our economy's situation unfortunately confirm that, and the first vice president gives such statements every day, in what ailing state our economy is. It's a miracle he's not considered absolutely responsible for it. The second major mantra of this government is investments in energy, almost since the first day of the term of office, we hear daily about grand investment in energy that will re-emerge Croatia, unfortunately we just listen. From facades to released billions into new power plants, and all that's happened is because of these installations of the phantom energy investment center that will probably eat a hundred million kunas a year and nothing happens. Of course there's no dispute over the fact that we need investment in commercial power sources, but it's obvious, I repeat, nothing is happening. I actually wanted this revenge at first just to point out the circumstances under which the government is now coming with these laws. The Energy Act is a roof law in a package of energy laws and the promoter says that this law, as well as those before, is, of course, a framework for the restructuring and reorganisation of the energy sector and the opening of the energy market. It is clear that Croatia is obliged to comply with the European Union directives and the third energy package. However, given the depth of the necessary changes, the Croatian public should have been warned about what it means to restructure and reorganise the energy sector and what parts of that system, the sector. The first that oil derivatives and gas are to the greatest extent adapted to the directives and is fully liberalised. We don't have coal or we have coal, but we're not taking it out. The renewable sources are on the market, and what's left? The Croatian electricity industry remains. What is the Croatian government thinking of doing with HEP? The directive is clear, three models are defined by which the reorganisation of Croatian electricity is possible, and when we talk about HEP, this is about production, transfer, supply, distribution of electricity. Other packages and parts of HEP, as regards supply and distribution, are already on the market. The government is sending the Energy Act and the Energy Regulation Act with clear consequences, and the public does not know what it is planning to do with Croatia's electricity industry, as a now vertically integrated entity. This law makes several new solutions and radically new solutions compared to the ones so far. The categories of privileged and tariff buyers as assumptions of full market liberalisation are abolished, for ensuring regular supply of energy by the Republic of Croatia is considered a responsible market, according to the first part of the law. Now, does anyone know what this means: "how will this market ensure regular energy supply of the Republic of Croatia?". And third, almost everything and better put forward everything regarding public power in the field of energy is transferred to HER, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. In addition, it should be pointed out in particular to Article 4. The Energy Act, among other things, reads: "In order to protect the interest and security of infrastructure for the supply of the Republic of Croatia's energy, infrastructure facilities for oil processing, oil production, oil transport and more, some activities. Afterwards, facilities producing electricity, power plants, etc. they declare themselves of interest to the Republic of Croatia.". He further says: "The owners of the facilities of interest for the Republic of Croatia are obliged to maintain, technologically improve, or modernise, according to the specifics of the Energy Development Strategy and the interests of the Republic of Croatia prescribed by the positive regulations.". That was so far out of the law. So, to clarify or to explain maybe someone from the government, this is about, say, processing oil and producing oil derivatives, of course, proclaiming objects of interest to the Republic, and it says here what owners have to do. What if they don't? What happens if MOL or INA, or the owner does not invest in the refinery as Sisak or Rijeka has never done before? Here, of course, suggests that the government will take special decisions to take action as soon as possible? Does this mean that these facilities will be excluded from private property? Of course, there's still talk about cogenerations here, there's talk about all energy entities for electricity production, today, even though you keep saying that nothing is happening, there's relatively much. Therefore, private investments in the production of electricity from biomass, wind power plants, biogas, whether the government will also say about the interest of the Republic of Croatia to create mechanisms to possibly in some assessment analysis that... the facility does not work the way or should not be renewed as it writes here and possibly nationalised it or as otherwise said. This should really explain what that means. But the most important change in this law certainly refers to Chapter 6, which is energy prices. As already said, this law aims to fully liberalise the energy market. HERA will, as so far, carry out all the tasks related to the adoption of a tariff system which makes up the prescribed methodology and tariff items. Energy entities will, as they have so far, apply for price changes, have always been at a higher level and HERA will evaluate them as justified or not. The final decision to accept a change in the price of electricity or gas has so far been made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thus taking full responsibility for the consequences of the decision. Although we have been listening these days from the Prime Minister and the Minister to try to justify this withdrawal from any responsibility related to the price of electricity, gas, heating that provides for this law we fully keep this raising of the government's hands out of responsibility for the care of citizens and the situation in the economy. Which is why the Prime Minister won't take responsibility anymore, so when he says he's no longer buying 10 and selling 8 to say good, we won't, and we're not going to sell 12, raise hands of such responsibility and leave everything to an independent or independent regulator, and every time that increase happens, he'll say that the government has nothing to do with it. The question is, is it really the government's responsibility? So what's the role of government then? Why does it even exist? Even under the conditions of the severe economic crisis, the daily loss of hundreds of jobs, the government must make decisions that will not endanger citizens and that will not make business conditions worse. There is no need for the government to raise its hands completely before entering full EU membership, when it comes to such important things as the price of electricity or gas. It's no brave or difficult decision, it's more a reflection of cowardice and irresponsibility. Although these laws are being drawn from the government's responsibility for electricity and gas prices, it is possible then that the first vice-president or prime minister has been announcing an increase in prices and heating for days. Isn't that what the pressure on HERA is really doing that it needs to accept energy subjects' demands to increase prices? Since when does the Prime Minister know that HERA will accept an increase in price? And then what's the point of these laws? Although this is wrapped or packaged in a comprehensive EU directive, the real reason is to open space to further increase energy prices, charge energy companies' accounts, and the budget will probably be happy, and to God help citizens and entrepreneurs, this government certainly will not. Although we are aware of this, of course, that these laws of the following directives have passed all the evaluation procedures, compliance and they will need to be adopted and adopted, but why, for example, as a proposal, the period of validity of this government would not start from the date of Croatia's accession to the EU. It is true that we are both late and we have not deliberately prepared this energy law package because we know that other important and large countries have not fully implemented the third energy package of EU guidelines today. Who's pushing us? There is no reason and no need for us to start applying this law by the time Croatia joins the EU. That is why we suggest you change the date of application of this law and we are ready to support this package. Otherwise, we won't be able to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17356	Thank you, Your Honor. Before I announce the next debate, I would like to inform you that 10 replicas have been reported on your display, which is not bad, but I ask that those who have reported the replica be constructive in order to improve the matter because the replicas on one side and on the other are almost the same. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17357	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. An esteemed colleague is specifically going to try to quote said, the goal is to fill the budget with government decisions, the result is a decline in investment, the government doesn't know what to do with HEP. What that means is that the budget was charged by the government in which Mr. Honorable Representative participated, and "Moody's" reduced the HEP rating exclusively and for the good part of the work of the last government where it clearly says that it destroyed the HEP liquidity by withdrawing the government in 2011 493 million kuna, which absolutely put liquidity at risk in order to charge the budget. And investments in 2010 were by HEP a billion 690 million, making it clear that the previous government did not know what to do with HEP. And this government clearly knows what to do with HEP because it has launched investments that will resuscitate imports and threaten liquidity. What is also important by withdrawing funds from profits from the government compared to Croatian electricity, it has been impossible to repay short-term loans that also threaten HEP liquidity, which amounted to 600 million kuna on 31.12.2011. So, the VAT burden, which is not the subject of this law, clearly this government said it was disbursing entrepreneurs by 2%, and we brought this to the Health Law, 50% for forests and water, and it also reduced VAT to 10% for a series of products, as well as for tourism activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17358	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs... Late, dear colleague, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have a chance now. Next replica and respected representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17359	Thank you very much. There's no way I'd agree with Reverend Prosecutor the Drinker that this government is running away from responsibility. In fact, this government is actually taking responsibility for this, a responsibility that you haven't taken all these years. You have led Croatia into a situation that the 8th importer of electricity in the world, you have forced only imports all these years. You know very well that as well as much stronger economies, Croatia cannot affect the prices of oil derivatives, gas prices, and what could have been done was to invest in production facilities, invest in distribution networks and thus reduce Croatia's dependence on imports and thus reduce electricity prices. That's what you're supposed to do, that's what you didn't do and that's why we now have the energy prices we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17360	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Do you know, Madam Representative, that in 2011, we opened an interconnector, a gas interconnector towards Hungary. That's why you must have warmed up last year and last winter, so you'll be warming up safely this winter. Do you know that we opened the interconnector 400... far at the end of 2010 the same way as Hungary that provides diversification of electricity supplies. Do you know that HEP invested in the network last year, distribution and supply of more than 2 billion kuna, and if you know of course and thank the representative and colleagues for reminding him of this, that HEP in 2010, that we had a positive business, that we had a result and that, of course, as the owner, we had the right to dispose and decide what we were going to get. The question is what result HEP will deliver this year. And thank you, of course, for reminding us that we've been investing in basic infrastructure facilities all these 10 years right in energy. 2000km of master gas pipeline, investments in JANAF that transforms it into a central distributor and warehouse of oil products and oil. It's all that this government is, of course, attributing and well that it is, after all, saying that something is happening, but unfortunately you forget that you've inherited something, not that the world starts with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17362	Thank you very much. Next replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17363	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Popijac, you said that the Government has ways and opportunities and that other more developed European Union countries that have not yet come forward with the implementation of the third energy package. And as you have found yourself, in this way the Government, that is the purpose... of the law, the government wants to leave, to allow the increase in energy prices and heating practically to be transferred to HERA and thus would say... wash hands of what it has already announced and what the first Deputy Prime Minister is doing for days and weeks, and it is practically already known how much the price of heating will increase in the Republic of Croatia. But we are witnessing that in April of this year, the government was based on the existing law when it was obliged to ask for an opinion and the position of HERA did not do it itself, without respecting the existing Energy Act was accumulated if you remember the price of electricity by 20% and the price of gas by 22%, and that justifies it by the alleged consent of HERA from 2010 when HEP sought to collect, but we are curated in smaller percentages. Therefore, the aim of the adoption of this law is to facilitate the collection of energy, to bypass the views and attitudes of cities from Osijek, Zagreb, Velika Gorica, etc. who disagree with the increase in energy prices because they know that this is a major blow to the standard of citizens in these units of local self-government and in order for the government to implement its intention to change the law now by an urgent procedure which, as you yourself said, can wait freely and there is still time for this entire third energy package to be implemented in Croatian legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17364	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17365	Well, sir, you've noticed the communication that revolves around this law, but of course everything about energy price policy. Therefore, we also doubt that the government's intention to fully liberalise this law and make HERA independent of the government's influence, because it is the day that energy price changes are announced precisely from the first people of the Croatian government. That is why we believe that this is very doubtful, especially since from our experience, of course, we have not so far accessed the relations between the government and the regulatory agency, but we have taken responsibility when the regulatory agency decided to assess whether or not this is the best solution in the overall context. Thus announcing and speaking about energy prices, prejudicing in fact the decision of HERA, we actually see what further impact the executive authority will have on so-called. an independent and independent agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17366	Thank you very much. Next 4 replicas and respected representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17367	Thank you, Mr. President. So let's let my colleague Popioč point out once again that if ever in the past ten years it wasn't time for the government to give up the impact and responsibility for energy prices, then it's now, at this point when we're recording an enormous drop in industrial production consumption on the one hand and on the other hand, the rise in unemployment. Certainly not that moment. And it should be said here that, of course, HDZ was also having discussions about this particular package of laws. We are also aware of the fact that this is a matter of compliance with European Union legislation. However, there is no reason and we do not see it that in the next 9 months, so by 1 July 2013, under these conditions of the economic crisis that is deepening each day, the Government has denied responsibility and impact on energy prices. And just another line about the investment, because that's what was mentioned. I think that the investment climate, the desire to invest, speaks best of yesterday's published data from the Croatian National Bank, is that contrary to any miserable EUR 600m investment in Croatia, there is a brilliant 150m euro this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17368	Thank you very much. Next 5 replicas and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, pardon the President of the Croatian Parliament. Excuse me. A fellow drinker, you said the HDZ government has prepared this law as well. Yes, the fact that commitments made towards the European Union need to be implemented and legislation needs to be harmonised. But one elemental question arises whether at the time we have inflation 5%, when we have galloping unemployment, say today there are 323 000 people on the market, and at the end of 9 months there were 311000. This 5% inflation is in the 9th month and is most practically after the end of 2008 when this global economic and financial crisis began. Is it time to simply leave the state on the market to regulate prices? Is it time for the state to still have certain control over the price just to protect these people? And I think colleagues and colleagues that this is not a topic of political debate and bickering, but simply to try to find a solution together, to try to postpone this to as much as we can for the simple reason that we can protect our citizens because it will also hit people who like both SDP and HNS and HDZ. It just doesn't pick anything. So, the debate of fellow drinkers went in this direction, simply trying to find a solution together to move 8.9 months back while we can, that the Government is still in a certain way until this social aspect is established so that those who can't pay to be helped from the budget based on social criteria and that was the purpose of this debate, because that is what the legislator ultimately foresees. But now we're accusing each other of how much someone invested, how much someone managed to invest. It's just that these projects that my colleague Poppie was talking about are here and no one can deny when they're made. And the ones you're talking about, it's only time to see if it's gonna be. But otherwise the formula for good budget filling is to raise VAT, raise the prices of basic products that citizens spend and the result is there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17370	Thank you very much. Time's up. And the reply to the replica is the Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17371	That fellow Shuker, although we warned both about VAT and about raising the energy price, that this would cause a chain reaction by ruling us to believe that it was not true and that it would not happen. Unfortunately, like everything else, the figures are inexorable and 5% of the obvious evidence that our warnings were justified. Therefore, it is clear that if energy prices rise, this will also lead to a rise in prices and products and services. And in fact, that is the fundamental reason why we should still, as you have pointed out, retain the possibility and mechanisms to be arbitration and intervened during this period when we still have opportunities in the event of an uncontrolled or more significant increase in the price of energy that will continue to deepen the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17372	Before we give a word to the honourable representative, Nadici Jelash, to reply to the replica, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 207 paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, at 10 hours and 48 minutes, the time has elapsed for a debate of 10 minutes on this subject. Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Nadica Jelash. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17373	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I can't just not react to Mr. Poppie's opening part of the debate about this bill when he said that the current government has, quote the enemy's attitude towards the economy. So this is the continuation of his continuing thesis on the creation of an anti-enterprise climate in Croatia by the current government. And I'm asking, is discharging the economy by reducing the cost of work? So we reduced our contribution to health from 15% to 13%, an enemy move towards the Croatian economy. Is the introduction of tax discipline as a kind of reaction to financial and tax as it remained behind the previous government by giving the possibility of reprogramming tax debts for 36 months, or if the tax debt is paid once, then it can be paid without interest. Is that an enemy move? Furthermore, with this tax discipline, the government made a huge leap in financial discipline through the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement that will be recalled, the party accepted both arms and praised it as an excellent law. When it comes to investment, they are not exactly, or were not, because there was this huge, tax and financial indiscipline. So capital does not come where there is an uncertain environment, and this current government is precisely working to make this economic environment more stable and secure and to achieve such a desirable economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17374	Thank you very much. After whispering the reply to the replica, the Đuro Popič respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17375	Thank you very much. Madam MPs, you can try to argue and elaborate the success of this government as much as you want, but your numbers are inexorable. You have a 6% drop in investment, you have a private sector drop of more than 5% or 6%, you have the highest inflow of private sector unemployment, from the real sector. Well, that's the answer of our Croatian businessmen, of course, and foreign investors to your actions. So how can you friendlyly call the law you bring and which you retroactively take money from entrepreneurs? The law of profit. You have, here's Mr. Milosevic said 600 million last year, of course not enough inflow of foreign investment, and this year you have 100 million. Don't the figures tell you anything? That's the answer and the citizens, that's the answer of course to the business sector itself. I will continue to claim that you have an enemy like an economic analyst, even a dilettant relationship to private entrepreneurship. The pillars of shame are so-called. One marketing approach to one general problem, the results are of course none. And that's going to show up very quickly with the latest statistics. And here is today's statement, these measures for unemployment, or incentives for the unemployed, or for the employment of a complete fiasco and disaster. So unfortunately, we are not looking forward to it, the results of your policy, your economic measures are devastating for the Croatian economy and for the Croatian citizens. And it will confirm more and more. So try and finally, once well-intentioned suggestions, try to understand them and accept them as we have proposed here and here about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17376	Thank you, too. The next replica is the seventh and respected representative of Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17377	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's the thing. I'll admit to my fellow drinker that they've done something, but you've done a little bit, so you've lost the election first of all. But the logic of politics and it says that what you don't do as a government we have to do as a government. I replicated that part of your exposure when you said the gas and electricity prices were up, which is true, but why are they raised? Because it wasn't you. And you yourself said in fact that you had a request from HEP already on the table, that HERA approved HEP's request, but then by political decision the government stopped it. And why did the government stop? Well, we all know why, because there was an election. It means buying social peace, better said citizens' affection. In this law, regardless of what I have to say, I personally am not a supporter of the market, but it's a special subject and we can do it in another, that the market will all be regulated alive and that the flowering roses will not be so sure. This crisis in Europe is saying something else. It also speaks of the state internationalism of Western countries and Western governments, but I say another topic. But in this law it is defined and also categories of protected customers, but also you know well someone mentioned, I think colleague Shuker, that actually the price is marketable, and the social category is achieved through cities and municipalities, meaning through social programs. I can set an example here of the city of Rijeka, but I believe there are other examples of cities, where citizens who do not allow property censors, have no possibility of paying certain fees that then have the right to a subsidy from not knowing the costs of dwellings to gas, electricity, etc. Therefore, everyone must do their part of the work and unit of local self-government in the part where the social programme is and where they must actually protect their citizens especially in this difficult situation of economic and social crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17378	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17379	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague, Prime Minister, is probably why the government is making political decisions right now. That's probably what it's for. And take political responsibility. If we lost the election because we didn't allow an increase in electricity and gas prices, we are. You'll probably lose the election for some other reason. But why didn't we raise the price of electricity? Well, here's a colleague of yours said that in 2010, we got a win for HEP. So, with that price of electricity, HEP had over a billion kuna profits that year. Were we supposed to increase the price of electricity and pump that bill even more? So HEP therefore exists, of course, and that's why it is in the hands of the state that we have some kind of mechanism that, under conditions, of course, the ideological conditions were good, which is why it was possible. And of course that's why the government took the political decision and said no, we're not going to increase the price of electricity that HEP did not need at the time. Of course, with restructuring and everything else. When you talk about gas and what you say to me, then 60% of the gas is extracted from Croatia and the Adriatic and Podravina at the end. And we know exactly how much that cubic gas costs, Croatian gas. And that year, INA had 2 billion kunas to gain. And of course we took it from them too, and we said we shouldn't increase the price of gas because it's a crisis, because it's unemployment, because the problems are both in the Croatian economy and among the citizens. And that's why we didn't make those decisions. And you can't convince anyone, of course, or the citizens that they were the wrong decisions. And imagine now you're saying that you're going to increase or increase energy prices because we're not there. So come on, please! We have arguments and we know the reasons why we didn't do it, and you have no arguments or reasons why you're doing it exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17380	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of Mirela Holly. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17381	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I have to admit to my friend, the Drinker, that your debate pretty confused me. Namely, who signed the energy section, or Chapter 15, temporarily closed it. As I recall, you were the Minister of Economy at the time, and I remind you that it was you who committed yourself to implementing the 3 European Energy Package and I will tell you which one was it, March 2010. year, ok 2011. So you're late, we're a year and a half late anyway. Who was in power at the time? And you are now saying that you did not purposely want to implement the 3 European Energy Package, which means that you have deceived the European Community, i.e. the European Union and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I think this kind of confession of yours in the debate is scandalous right now. And now you say that you did it because you were protecting the social interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, please, I know very well why you did it, because you were protecting the monopolitical position of HEP in the Republic of Croatia. And unlike my colleague Komadina, I think that the market regulation of these activities is a very good one to strengthen the role of an independent regulator and will bring order to this market. And we really do have the wild west here. So, I am not, I am in principle amazed that you can admit openly to the public that you have consciously gone to that you will not fulfil the obligations you have made towards the European Union, that is terrifying.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17382	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17383	Well, here we are, dear colleagues, perhaps I should remind you that we have completed the negotiations in 2011, that we have signed the pre-accession agreement 2011. Yes, of course we know that, and what our obligations were. And of course we've written these laws, too, and they're different in some ways. It's already been said several times on this side. But we also know what is happening in other European Union countries. And as you can see, we've conducted all the procedures, we've completed the negotiations, we've listed a pre-accession agreement and we haven't compromised that process, unlike you who've been threatening him since the first day of your term. And the question is, after all, what's going to happen? And I think that, I don't know why we need to keep doing this over and over again, and why we should even be told to remind you that, of course, we've closed all the other heavy chapters, from shipbuilding to justice, and we see what we have today. And I ask you that it may not be them, it is not appropriate for the Energy Act to raise the question of what situation you have put us in, of course, in the process of joining the Croatian European Union. You're jeopardizing everything that's been done so far. In spite of our being aware and how we have longed for the adoption of these laws. We are not late, we have not threatened and we have not cheated on the European Union, on the contrary. Someone's been cheating on you for the last nine months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17384	Thank you very much. Next, 9 replicas and respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17385	Thank you, Mr. President. I think you've opened two important issues, a price policy, and you need to make it clear that's the first question. You should say the government doesn't want to take responsibility. They will tell the citizens the electricity was collected because HER wanted it so, and the simplest thing this government does to the citizens of Croatia is putting its hand in the pocket and how much money we take. Now we're picking up electricity, we've announced gas collection, heating up. Prices rose in September compared to August, prices for citizens for goods and services rose 1.4%. How long will it grow in the fall? The second question, I come from the city, a fellow Popiac, who has 3 important, 3 significant energy facilities, JANAF, INA, the Sisak Refinery and the thermopower plant. He says no investments? JANAF, you yourself said how much has been invested in those tanks, famous in JANAF, what has JANAF become for Croatia at all? Construction of the third bloc started, whether you want to or not at Sisak thermal power plant in the term of the HDZ government. And what happens to INA today? In Sisak, the Siscani are terrified of what will happen to the INA refinery. In 2000, it was invested in the INA of Rijeka, nothing in Sisak. Finally, it began to modernise now in the mandate of the former government and the refinery. Everything's standing, there's a story going around again that INA's going to close, what's going to happen? There, unemployment gets bigger and bigger every day. My colleague, please don't throw it to me, I know what's going on in Sisak unlike you who don't know, go around town and you'll see. Unemployment is higher, so I'm asking you now a question on behalf of my citizens, the very ones who will pay more expensive heating next month, which will pay for electricity, which do not receive wages and which are increasingly numbered at the employment office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17386	Time respected MPs. Thank you, thank you very much. And 10 replicas and respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17387	Thank you, Mr. President. Another confused one, I'm confused with the discussion of a fellow drinker, but I'm confused with all these reactions. What's going on? The Social Democratic government wants to fully and proposes full market liberalisation. The right hand, Christian Democrats advocate state interventionism. A discussion similar to 7, 8 years ago was just the opposite, the reverse stories almost the same sentence we heard, the reverse stories were. What's common is that at the end of the ballad of citizens' pay, they pay it with worse bills, with electricity bills, with bills of heating that they pay for the contract, that's what Faust made up with Mephisto, contracts that are made for life, except that they don't sign with blood, and they last after whoever signed them dies as in Toplana in Karlovac, let's say you sign a contract that you can't break up with, you sold your soul to the devil, but you can't get it back. The bill is paid by citizens, and here the parties are exchanged to defend their interests, almost in the same terms. We could have recorded this a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17388	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17389	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, of course we're not in favour of any state interventionism. So we just want to leave this period at our disposal to allow the Government to intervene or arbitration in key decisions that can be of paramount importance to some segments of society, economy. I want to remind you, of course, by doing so for the past two years, although you do not want to admit it, but I must remind you that we have had a slight growth in GDP precisely thanks to the government's attitude towards such measures, unlike, of course, this year, when we see what is happening. And these are the results and these are the mechanisms and this is the way the government responsible runs economic policy. And don't be confused about it. Of course, you have to be confused when you see that the government disowns, of course, all the possibilities of certain arbitration and the essential roles that it essentially should play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17390	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Minister of Honor Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17391	Thank you, Mr. President. One part I've reported has already been debated, but it doesn't hurt, of course, to recapitulate certain segments. For the sake of the public and for our conscience, but also for our relations with EU members and the European Commission. Let me say that this year's and the latest published monitoring report on Croatia's progress on the road to the EU in the section relating to Chapter 15 and related to adoption and implementation, these are two different things of the third package, the directive says: "Significant Delay" significant delay. This is the assessment that we as a country have received as regards the assumed obligation to implement the third package of Directives for which there are two deadlines 31.3.2010 for the legislative part, meaning I am talking about the whole package and the Energy Act that we have today on the table and the Energy Activity Regulation Act, the electricity market and the gas market. Therefore, the first date of 31.3.2010 for the adoption of the legislative package, the implementation of 31.3.2011, and the final obligation, therefore, to have full implementation already tested in practice and on the ground until the entry into the EU in 2013. It's simply a pilgrim behind which we have stopped who we have negotiated and who is famous. As the Commission responds in Chapter 15 to our dynamics, the assessment according to their words is a significant delay and I would stay on the directives and on the third package. What we may not be able to do but we do, what we should not do is interpret the conversion of the directive into national legislation in such a way that the Government washes its hands with this mechanism and moves its responsibility as regards the formation of energy prices on the market. Because it is easy to say now during the debate that by this measure, the government is moving this bill away from its responsibility and washing its hands, and it is not clear and I am going to say it again, we are adopting a concrete directive. A concrete directive, which requires absolutely all EU members 27, and thus, we, too, through several months independent decision-making processes at the level of regulators. So if we say in the debate that this is the model of which the Government has come to its responsibility and washing its hands then I must say responsibly that this Energy Act, which was prepared a year or two ago, contains in itself what we have signed as an obligation under the accession contracts towards the EU and what is inside, and what is written in the directive that is being transposed into this law, it had to be done on 31.3.2010 or at least 31.3.2011, we did well now in the 10th month of 2012, but we had at least two, three time options when we had to do so at least in accordance with the commitments undertaken. And a small summary of the same current ongoing discussion on price formation and one retrospective of the history of the energy market in 2008-2010. In 2008, the energy market especially in the gas segment had its own price collapse. At that time, many countries, for example, Hungary, which is now falling into my mind, have taken advantage of the market collapse of energy prices to make smooth transition, or to make a slight adjustment to the price level on their national markets. It may have been an opportunity and it was an opportunity that HEP then recognized and applied for a price increase and HERA then rated it justified. So some countries used the 2008 price collapse to make adjustments to internal prices in order to adapt and make mild price increases. If there were a cascade over the years going on a little increase then as you said, Mr. Drinker, it wouldn't have been a dramatic growth this year, but he would have been progressive, he would have been run by the market. And yes, this year, if we say it's dramatic growth, it's really like that, but in the last four years, it's a question to all of us whether our internal energy prices really reflect the state of the market. We're talking about private entrepreneurs, and I'm asking an open next question. Do we know of any private contractor who, of his incomes, pays taxes, pays people, pays wages, who's ready to sell the product that he produced below the cost of production. Is there any private entrepreneur who is ready for the product that he bought in wholesale at one price to sell that same product at that same price. You have absolutely no profit, or loss, I'd say no, but certainly there are entrepreneurs here who can answer that question. And as for the investment climate and the creation of one hostile environment, I'd like to remind you of two things. First of all, to a really positive, good debate that we had about the Investment Encouragement Act when I think I said in the final word that law reflects us, all of us regardless of who it is. It's a law that shows by its measures what kind of country you're in. The country consists of people, and it is our responsibility not to create an enemy environment, but to constantly work on attracting and retaining investors, regardless of whether they are foreign or domestic. In this respect, we are greatly helped by a retrospective investment climate in Croatia as given by the Member States of the European Union on 31 January 2012. So I would not agree that they succeeded in detecting the enemy climate in Croatia within 30 days during January and that on 31 January they gave us a list of all barriers, all obstacles as Member States see business in Croatia. I'd say it's one more permanent, slightly more continuous process that they needed to put on the table on January 31st as a motivation to make things better, to change and, of course, to move from negative perception to a more positive perception. And only one old man who may have promoted, which I would mention, is related to the market, whether or not it agrees that the market is at a pace. Namely, we've abolished the stories cap for the price of gas. New players entered the market and, for example, some players on the market, i.e. certain consumers on the market have a price of gas of 2.75, thus abolishing the cap stories for the margin of the amount of gas price. In the industry, individual consumers negotiated the price below 3 kuna, so the market must also be talked about the agreed prices that must be respected. So the market also has its logic in price formation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17392	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We've registered six replicas to your exposure. First is Honorable Representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17393	I think that this law is, above all, the result, here we are discussing for several hours, that here we as MPs would find out, and we didn't have a chance to find out in the last term when pre-accession negotiations were held, when the contract was signed, when that National Committee was formed, how proud it sounds to follow the negotiations, when no debate was held on the content of these pre-accession negotiations for both the terms of energy for agriculture and for the economy such as Croatia's entry into the European Union. It is obvious that we are entering on our knees, obviously we are entering the poor, it is obvious that we are entering practically as slaves, not as partners of that European Union because this is about the European Union directive. Therefore, my simple question is what we are discussing here, whether the power of this Croatian Parliament is to change the possible comma, big or little letter, to be a lecturer in that law, in that package of laws when it is a directive of the European Union. We can freely tell all Croatian citizens to talk here or not to talk you will get a market of ruthless, non-social market, neoliberal market and electricity and all the energy you will pay dearly, and you have no chance of surviving these poor salaries with which you live in this Croatia that enters the European Union. It's the only truth and the only fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17394	Thank you, too. The next replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17395	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I am pleased to hear from the Deputy Minister that the Ministry of Economy, or rather the first Deputy Prime Minister or Minister of Economy, has decided to comply with all those provisions that the Republic of Croatia has taken in the process of negotiations for entry into full membership of the European Union. In fact, we all still remember his comment from the first beginning of this year when it is on the European Union's warning that it is not good and that it is a violation of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest for ministers to enter the supervisory committees, so when the decision was made that he and the Minister of Finance become members of the INA Supervisory Board, when his comment was already shaking. However, this clearly represents a measure of progress in relation to that attitude that was at the beginning of the year. But I did not report for this, I just called to say that even in this law, in the transitional and final provisions, certain articles, i.e. the provisions of certain articles, come into force after the entry into force of the Republic of Croatia into full membership of the European Union. So, if we can get the provisions of the article... to extend until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership, and then some other provisions, for example, on market liberalisation, i.e. on energy prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17396	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Two things. So, as far as the environment is concerned, it's either positive or not for investors. Deputy ministers this year in the first 9 months of 150m euros in investment, last year at the same time over 600m euros in investments. It's numbers we can't escape from. If you created an environment that was better then it would probably be more than 600 million, and you have 4 times less. So the numbers say everything. And another thing that's very important. So it's only partly true that we need to adapt these laws in the way you say it. We need to adapt them because it is a commitment that we can achieve, but we can achieve it from 1.7.2013 if we become a full member. Therefore, we do not have to adopt this package of laws before we become a full member of the European Union because not many Member States have. Be honest and tell it to Croatian citizens and MPs here in the Croatian Parliament. And the other thing that is even more important, in these laws, and that is the answer and fellow Vinkovic is nowhere to be found, nor does the European Union say how much electricity and gas will cost in Croatia. You here use the European Union and HERA as an argument to raise prices and transfer all the costs you have due to unquality management of Croatian citizens. It's the model you're working on. All your shortcomings, you transfer all your incompetences to the back of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17398	Thank you very much. Next replica and esteemed representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17399	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, Madam Deputy, we agree, of course...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17400	Come on up, tell me what it is. You have a word. [[/Intruder: What?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17401	I thank you, Mr. President. On several occasions you commented on the performances of Croatian Democratic Community representatives, on several occasions you matched them, so when Mr Popijac received the words, you have the right to contact the Croatian Assembly. Now you're whispering with the deputy minister and you're suggesting to her that the replicas given by HDZ deputies were published, so I gave myself the freedom to comment on you whispering with the deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17402	Well, I respect your freedom, so I gave you my word and your status as counsel. Respect my position, and I have not commented on anyone's exposure, nor will I comment. And you couldn't name it because I didn't do it. And with my colleague at the table, all I asked him to do was ask if the representative would answer what was my obligation, not my arbitrary decision. So don't use the pay phone to discredit others without looking at yourself. It's not fair! There's always a public judge here. So it's not true what you said. Thank you very much. We're going with a replica of Đura Popio's respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17403	Thank you, Mr. President. So, Madam Deputy, we agree on the market and everything you have said, of course and certainly, that it needs it to the greatest extent and best intentions and to implement it in the best practice in all segments of work, life, business, everything. The market needs to be fully prepared and there should be ready institutions for the market and we will, of course, welcome all that is related to it. As far as the energy's concerned. Certainly as many have entered the banking industry market, so we have the highest capital prices in Europe, and in TELECOM. Of course we have an open market, so we have the highest price of telecom services in Europe and of course many players will come to this market when they will have the highest energy prices in Europe. I'm afraid the gas and the players won't have anyone to sell to on this one. Why? And that topic has been there for years, and we've been fighting this topic together for a while. Why the Hungarian industry and the Hungarian economy have cheaper gas than Croatia or Slovenia, which has neither the cubicity of its gas or Austrian or Italian. Well, these are the questions that a regulated policy has to answer, the state has to answer. It's also a role, and I keep saying that regardless of the open market. It doesn't mean that it doesn't need to be developed, but it doesn't need to be done in such a way that what's said is the biggest and worst monopoly is actually a private monopoly, and even in the open market, and to repeat, we have a natural opportunity to see what happens to the price of capital and everything that has brought us the market. The market must be agreed, markets should be agreed but we should be fully prepared to make this the best way for the interest of the Croatian economy and for Croatian citizens the best, the best quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17404	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17405	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy, you've asked this kind of rhetorical question so you'd like to see which private contractor will sell the product below the price. If ever in these times and in these areas there was a situation for private entrepreneurs to sell products below the price it is unfortunately today. Many private entrepreneurs because the market is not working because the standard of Croatian citizens and the situation in the economy is so forced today to save them that the price of capital that is so expensive is at least a little cheaper, because if they sell the product below the price at least they will cover a part of the liabilities. And now one elemental question is being asked. Do you really think if we settle the market price of electricity, the price of gas, the price of heat heating that this number of unemployed people can operate the market or we're going to get into a situation that simply these people will use electricity, they won't be able to pay for it, they're going to start cutting wire for connections. So the intensity of our debate was not to disrespect the commitments made towards the EU but simply to agree on some things until we agree on a social map simply prolonging and extending. It's the intensity of this debate. However, when something is not done, it is struck on the other side. And as for the increase in electricity prices you remember well in 2008 when we raised electricity prices then we said all those who have monthly consumption below that amount do not refer to that part of it will be paid from the state budget. The state budget thus subsidized a price increase of 125m to 150m kuna per year. Why in such a way? Because there just wasn't a more adequate social map. In 2010, mentioned so many times in these discussions, HERA made a decision to raise prices, the government did not accept. She did not accept for the simple reason that that year was such a great hydro year that HEP produced electricity, only to ask you two sentences to finish, HEP produced electricity over the hydrocentrals, and that year they made a profit of a billion and 500 million kuna. So when we talk about some things, we talk about facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17406	Thank you very much. Replica reply, deputy deputy minister Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17407	Thank you. Dear Representative Mr Jandrokovic said if we join the EU, I firmly... Well, not by reference to the honourable representative, then, especially, is said if we join the EU. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I believe that we will enter the EU with 1.07.2013 or all these 12 years have been absolutely wasted in the wind. So we have to believe that's gonna happen. As regards Chapter 15 and energy, you said that the European Commission does not insist that this does not apply to EU membership in national legislation. But this is how we negotiated for Chapter 15, and this is quite evident from the European Commission Report, which says in the field of the internal energy market, harmonisation is modest. Croatia has applied legislation to one measure to bring it in line with the acquis, but as far as the third energy package is concerned, Croatia has been significantly late compared to the Croatian original schedule, the timetable and it remains to be done until the end. Therefore, if we are in Chapter 15 and we have said that we will make a legislative package 31.03.2010 that we will implement it, see in practice how it works on 31.03.2011, I do not know what I specifically wrongly said?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17408	Thank you very much, dear Deputy Minister. And the last, sixth replica, respected representative of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17409	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, I am probably among the last to be against the free market, open market and entrepreneurship, but it is necessary here to say that there is a huge difference in responsibilities between private entrepreneurs and the state, i.e. the Government, particularly in crisis. A private entrepreneur and when it is not a crisis responds primarily to his employees, customers, suppliers, of course he has a wider social responsibility while during the crisis the particular state has responsibility for this private entrepreneur, as well as for all citizens who need help to get us all out of the crisis together. And of course with as few social breakdowns as possible. And another sentence when it comes to the state monopoly, so one thing is the monopolies of the country's special monopoly tomorrow in the EU, and the other is the achievement of each government's commitment to achieving strategic national goals under the conditions of course that we know what our strategic national goals are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17410	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. HNS MPs' club and respected representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17411	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the distinguished deputy minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's the law we're talking about as lively as we know it is a roof law for the entire energy sector and therefore its adoption is extremely important. In 2001, Croatia began to regulate its activities in the gas and electricity market and, later on, oil and oil derivatives. In addition to any changes to the laws implemented afterwards, the functioning of the electricity and natural gas market by the EU has been assessed as non-transparent and well-marketable and, therefore, by closing Chapter 15 of the pre-accession negotiations, Croatia has committed itself to implementing a new energy package within the deadlines within which other EU members must do so. That's why I'm as deeply confused as most of the other MPs are with today's debate. Namely, you've negotiated, you've signed, and now you want to force us here that we should do something to avoid. This may be the way you are used to functioning, but it is certainly not something that the EU expects of us and no responsible government and also Parliament cannot behave in this way. This law will organise the market in a way that there will be the same rules of play for all market participants. Participants are also those who produce energy and energy, those who carry it and distribute it and consumers, that is, consumers who will be able to choose better and better and cheaper suppliers by this very opening of the market. And that's how the EU market works. We have decided on the EU market here in Parliament, our citizens have decided on the EU market in a referendum and we have decided on the very principles of an economic market when we founded our country of Croatia. Therefore, I think that now to discuss the market economy and the open market really is wrong. This law clearly defines this time real responsibilities in the energy sector, between the Government, between HER and energy entities, and finally establishes a clear relationship between market energy activities, namely production, supply, trade on the one hand and regulated energy activities, distribution transport management, transmission networks and other public services on the other. What is most important for the protection of the public interest is the establishment of a clear control relationship precisely over the implementation of regulated energy activities, i.e. on the so-called Prior monopolies. Because of the price of these energys, our citizens have found themselves under heavy shock and something out of objective circumstances that we as a state cannot influence because the prices of energy in the world are simply rising, but mostly because of a completely irresponsible policy that has not been dealt with in any way in all these years and tried to solve it. And yet he now suggests that for the next nine months we should stick our head in the sand and do nothing. Things were pushed under the carpet, state lines were managed as we know in a completely catastrophic way, social peace was bought, citizens' eyes were caressed to get back into the situation that they finally had to pay for our citizens because there is simply no other solution. Citizens now have to pay for HDZ in such an absolutely inappropriate manner, I said, and I will use that word again, the disastrous way of managing state-owned companies, the citizens will now have to pay what money has been drawn from companies all these years, the citizens will now at the worst moment of the crisis have to pay what prices haven't been calculated realistically. The economy has already paid the price, which has been calculated for them as economic operators, for industrial gas pricemakers all these years at a far higher price than for households, which is, of course, the opposite of any healthy economic logic. And yes, here you managed to boast that you managed to get the money out of HEP and INA, I think it's a completely guilty economic policy. You, however, had to invest in hydropower plants and other production facilities, because this is the only way, by creating its own production capacity so that we can reduce our dependence on electricity imports and thus reduce prices. Another way to cut prices, when we're completely dependent on imports simply don't exist. From all the above, the law foresees, and because of what is happening now and what is going to happen in the future, that our most sensitive parts of society should be protected and therefore this law has provided for a strong social component which will provide the socially endangered citizens with special protection measures and is extremely important in the context of this law. And finally, as with the tax debt, it will also prove that there are those who used benefits and benefits and did not carry out all their obligations towards the state, and in fact they did it exclusively at the expense and burden of those, and most often the poorest ones, who have been paying their taxes neatly all this time, and that is to the electricity and gas bill. What is more important is that the state here must also take a serious role and responsibility in educating our citizens, in which they can and must actually use energy efficiently and rationally and manage energy. I will quote, here are some positive examples from the Varazdin County and the City of Varazdin where we first reported social facilities for energy restoration and on the basis of this, 5 schools and dormitories will be restored, and in the town of Varazdin all seven children's kindergartens, cultural institutions, museums, wages and city swimming pools are already reported projects that are prior to signing. Since it is about institutions that are mostly burdensome and the budget of urban, municipal and county budgets, savings here will be really big and these budgets will be localised, free from funds that can be used in other programmes and projects. The objectives are to restore existing facilities, streamline energy consumption, engage in the development of energy efficiency projects and promote sustainable development and environmental protection measures. There is also, of course, a whole range of other activities, and in order to introduce the economy and citizens to the possibility of installing renewable energy sources, i.e. the ability to achieve savings through energy recovery projects of existing buildings. This is the direction that the countries of the European Union have long gone since, since this way of using renewable energy sources has greatly mitigated the impact of energy growth, while also ensuring a healthy environment. Speaking of the environment, it is important to stress that the law here also provides conditions for reducing negative environmental impacts and encourages sustainable development in the energy segment. And here it is important to say that for the first time this law provides green certificates, i.e. those from suppliers or consumers, end-users, so it wants green energy, hydro, wind, bio mass or solar power. The law also introduces the possibility of compensation for heat produced from renewable energy sources, and what is very important is to create assumptions for the adoption of a programme for the implementation of intelligent measuring devices. So, indeed, this law in all ways promotes and promotes efficient and rational use of energy. Entrepreneurship in the field of energy, investing in the energy sector and protecting the environment, and thus this law truly fulfils its purpose and the HNS club will support it. Here, can only say a few words about this second law, so the HERA now gets with this law, it is repeatedly highlighted here, really significantly higher, and normative, and executive and supervisory powers, and it is particularly important that these powers are extended to both the area of prices and fees for regulation of activities. HERA will have to carry out, on the other hand, the very important tasks of the energy sector, whose realisation in one part depends on the Croatian economy. In particular, HERA should effectively open the market for all customers and all suppliers and remove restrictions on electricity trade and natural gas. Therefore, the main objective on the one hand is to ensure an independent, impartial, clear and effective action of HERA, and, of course, there is an obligation to cooperate with the competent authorities of the European Union and Member States in accordance with the directives that we know we must respect. So it's about really very demanding tasks that HERA will have to do and it has to be organized and done in a way that will be up to that task and I believe it and here I agree that it will certainly... HERA be quite a challenge. In fact, reading reports on the work of HERA in recent years, it can be very clear that HERA has not fully fulfilled the function for which it has been established. They don't show up every year, and then they disappear, and then they announce themselves, so they just don't realize. The debate in this House on HERA reports made it clear that HERA did not carry out its task properly and that the failures in the work of HERA were very reflected in the Croatian economy. This is now a bigger task in front of HERA, which receives such powers that it must do its job far better and more responsibly. In particular, I would like to welcome the 25th Article of the HERA Act, which includes mechanisms that protect HERA's independence. Namely, all members of the Governing Council of HERA will not be able to be allowed so that there will be no ownership of any of the companies in the energy sector and will not be able to be members of political parties or perform tasks for energy entities or their branches, and we believe that this is how the truth is achieved by the independence of the members of the HERA Management Council because, of course, it is necessary in all these powers that HERA now gets to be an independent agency. We think that this law fully agrees with the first law with the roof energy law and the HNS will support both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17412	Thank you very much, dear colleague Natalija Martincevic. At your presentation we have 8 replicas so please stick to two minutes of replica and two minutes of answers. First in line Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17413	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'd just like to comment briefly and ask my colleagues from the CNS to be objective. We can complain about what HDZ wasn't good at, which is why he lost the election okay, but let's not say it was a disaster because if our 600 million euros investment is a disaster which is your 150 million? So it's an even bigger disaster. So GDP's decline in inflation since 2008, so he said Mr. Komadina wasn't all bad. So let's try and talk about these topics objectively. Secondly, we do not have to pass this package of laws before Croatia enters the EU. Even the deputy minister, reading the report, said that Croatia must do so by the time it enters, about such a formulation because no one says it has to be done immediately. This does not seem to be due to the EU, and do not present the EU as the culprit for increasing energy prices now because it is originally your idea. This law doesn't talk about the price, you'll set the price yourself. You're calling on HERA, and we all know how much energy they're going to collect because it's announced by the first vice president. So how does he know what he'll do to an independent regulatory body? So let's not throw fog into people's eyes and accept the fact that HDZ didn't bring some things back then because he thought he could postpone them to 1.7 because we were socially sensitive in that area and we didn't think that citizens should pay for the crisis that was happening to us. You obviously think that the crisis can only be financed through the back of citizens, that the only purpose of your action is to fill the budget. Well, no, there are other ways. Think of other ways, you're responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17414	Reply to the replica of colleague Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17415	How is it not a disaster? You've counted that you've invested something in the same thing. However, the results are visible. They are visible in current energy prices that are real, they are visible in that we are the 8th importer of electricity in the world, that we are completely dependent on imports. Then how come the results aren't catastrophic? Then why did you invest it strongly when we have this kind of energy situation and total dependence on imports? And secondly, I don't know which part... we don't understand. Namely, you signed, you negotiated, and you made a commitment. We are now fulfilling what you have done and you now have observations here. I think the EU message is that we are in a serious delay enough to say that we have to implement it and that there is no more space for postponement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17416	Thank you. Another replica has a colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17417	Thank you very much. It is true, counterpart Martincevic, that the previous HDZ coalition government has negotiated all of this, but no one hastened you to do this before 1 July, if it is 1st July, given Slovenia, Germany and everything else, then God help you to apply all this before 1st July. It's actually something else entirely. I'm surprised by the discrepancies between the first statement and you because you said it would be cheaper after the adoption of this law. You can literally take... and the first one says it will and already announces the collection of energy. Make a deal at the HNS, you're gonna make it cheap, or you're gonna collect New Year's energy. And when you said you'd be cheap, I'm very interested in how you're going to explain, or how you're going to support that claim that there's going to be a cost of energy after it's allotted so nicely between HERA, energy entities and the Croatian Government or the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17418	Reply to the replica of colleague Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17419	Well, I don't know which times and the deputy minister and I will say it again. So now you've said there's no reason why we should rush this. I think that the EU's warning that we are clearly said to be in a serious delay is a sufficient sign that we need to implement this. In addition to not implementing this law, you get absolutely nothing, you get another 9 months of sticking your head into the sand as if we haven't done it all these past years by the HDZ government. Things must finally be cut off and agreed because this is the only way we can set up a realistically open energy market. When I was talking about the market, I said that I didn't think there was a need to discuss what an open market is, which is an economy, it seems there may still be, that we should talk about what the market means, which means the open market, which means the arrival of other suppliers and which means the possibility of impacting prices. This is the market, what prices will be decided accordingly by the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17420	The next replica of a colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17421	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Martincevic, you said that this government is serious and that it adheres to commitments taken. Now it is not clear to me whether it is the Law of Conflict of Interest that some would enter the Supervisory Board because of some other interests more important than the laws that want to protect the standard of Croatian citizens, and especially those who remain unemployed this year because if you are on the trail of what you say, then you must be consistent. For six months, the government has been struggling to convince the European Commission that the Law on Conflict of Interest should not be applied on the INA, and no word has tried to fight to say that these laws that want to raise energy prices, the price of heating in the Republic of Croatia, that its application should be delayed until its entry into the European Union. Well, you see, this is a typical example of inconsistencies that you simply can say now whatever you want but these are facts that you can't escape from. Because we remember, the whole first half of this year has been spent on copying between Brussels and the government will either be applied to the INA or not. Why, that's what the sparrows on the branch sing and know. Therefore, these are facts. The second thing, if you're talking about the market, how do you know, given all the promises you've made, it's finally turned out to be the opposite, tomorrow when you make these grand objects, and it's going to be very interesting to look at especially some companies by which they entered among these 7 for Plomin, especially the one from Poland. This is very interesting, and it should really tell the Croatian public by what criteria you have entered among those 7 where you guarantee that this Plomin will produce cheaper electricity than someone outside who will be interested in selling electricity because it may have a surplus. Because if we're talking about the market you also have a producer who if they simply can't sell their product on the existing market then to get into a new market they'll sell it below the price just to get into the market. It's the market. So you have to count on it, you can't just count on what's going to be produced in Croatia to make it cheaper. And in the end, no one with the signing of these energy laws said that prices would go worse than just the regulation of the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17422	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17423	... is the government's desire for ministers to be on the INA Supervisory Board to protect Croatia's interest in the INA which we have lost thanks to just you HDZ colleagues. [[You don't understand.]] We lost our influence in the INA, we lost our INA rights, and this was our last chance to protect our interests qualityly and therefore the government insisted on it. And as for the protection of Croatian citizens, it was not a way to protect Croatian citizens from getting these money out of state-owned companies and spending on your campaigns or on what you've already spent on, it would be determined by some other institutions, but that the money that is invested from the company into production facilities, into the distribution network, in order not to be dependent on imports and so that we can provide citizens with cheaper energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17424	Next replica, counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17425	Dear colleagues, you were clear and right when you said that this government took responsibility and took responsibility for making decisions that may not seem beautiful, but they are essentially effective, useful, for establishing a rule of law, system and market economy because as colleagues from the opposition constantly say that an anti-enterprise climate is being created. And how can investors understand the postponement of the law we have signed to implement with the European Union, a law providing the market, which ensures equal conditions for electricity transmission. The aim of this law is not to charge the budget as colleagues have done by withdrawing funds in a variety of ways, and from HEP by withdrawing funds instead of investing and therefore falling, I will repeat, the HEP rating highlighted by the liquidity threat, the withdrawal of funds by the state, and the opposition colleagues are looking at the separatist and populist, not comprehensively, because the decline in the rating accumulates the credit price and then normally directly affects the price of electricity. Therefore, this government is working on a system to ensure a quality market, and here in the law it clearly states that the social component of the protection of citizens will be and must be and so will be. Therefore, populist statements are merely trying to extract what is important to them, and key to ensuring that the market is guaranteed by this government does not want to speak, that it respects its own rules does not want to speak, and that indifference in the state has left the same thing they do not want to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17426	Thank you. The Republic has Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17427	The distinguished colleague boasted therefore to the city of Varazdin about renewable energy projects. I must admit as a representative and as mayor that the city of Djakovo has also reported such similar projects, but here to this day, and immediately after the establishment of this government to this day, I have neither received a proposal for an agreement nor have I seen a minister except here in the current hour. However, there is another option where money from the state budget is not spent, it is simple that units of local self-government not on the basis of a public private partnership, but on the basis of a public tender, the tender for renting areas according to the Public Procurement Act comes from private investors and therefore sets up facilities for renewable energy sources. So there are several models of which are certainly the most acceptable and for the Republic of Croatia, here is the procedure, not the spending of funds from the state budget. And as far as I'm concerned, I don't think there's so much to argue about. the left thread of the so-called ‘left thread’. Right because they sold both of them in 2003. 25%, these other additional 25%, and now we can only act as members of the Supervisory Board and protect probably for good compensation of Croatian interests, and these Croatian interests are long lost. And I will say something about the law itself and the directives of the European Union on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17428	Reply to the replica of colleague Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17429	Here's just a very short one. I am pleased that at least in this first part of his replica, my colleague Vinkovic pointed out that this law has the opportunity to discuss really important and important topics, which are how to manage energy rationally and efficiently, in which way to use energy rationally and efficiently. This is something that the European Union countries have long recognised what they are applying. It is applied in the town of Varazdin, used in Đakov. There is also energy recovery, there is a JPP, there is that privates invest in solar collectors and photo voltage cells etc. And I'm glad you're thinking this way as a representative of the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17430	My colleague Branko Bačić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17431	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So distinguished colleagues, citizens of the Republic of Croatia are only interested in whether or not they will collect energy, whether they will collect gas, electricity, heating, fuel or not. They are least interested in who will make the decision, whether to make a decision by HERA or by the government. And they are even less interested in whether this third energy package will be implemented today or 30 June next year. But what we want to do with this law, regardless of when it comes into force, is liberalise the energy market and determine the independence of regulators, in the first order of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. It is not clear to me from your presentation whether you really represent this opinion that HERA should be independent, that it should make decisions on its own, because you said on several occasions that, on several occasions, there will be a collection of electricity, because the government, our Government of the Croatian Democratic Community, has not allowed the collection of energy for years, so this has now come to this government. I don't see absolutely from your exposure as much as and in what way do you really think that HERA will be independent, that it will be independent in deciding when your president, or the first Deputy Prime Minister, already knows today how many will collect for example heating. So, not to leave hera's ability to decide for itself whether there is a justifiable increase. You in the government, or the ruling coalition, already know how much of the energy they're going to collect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17432	Reply to the replica of my colleague Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17433	Yes, Croatian citizens are very interested in what energy prices will be. However, it is you and your governments who have brought us into a situation that we are completely dependent on energy imports, that we cannot in any way influence these energy prices. If the money had not been withdrawn and it did not cover a number of budget gaps, it could have been ensured for Croatia to have its production capacity and to form its own energy prices and not to be dependent on the situation in the surrounding countries and to be fully dependent on how prices will be formed. That's what the citizens were expected to do, and that's what this government is going to do now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17434	Replica has a colleague, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17435	Thank you very much. Here, I'm going to rephrase to my esteemed colleague about her presentation on this second text of the law where she spoke of HERA. Here's a colleague of Bacic's talking about the agency's independence. So I'm going to say that this agency has already been independent regardless of this law that we're already in the process because we have an example that I've managed to find here on the portal. But look at what independence or independence is, it's a boosted independence by HEP. So then we have an Aluminium case from Mostar where the government has decided 9.2. that it will allow this privileged buyer to deliver a privileged energy price, and that he will deliver 60000 and some aluminium blocks and logs to continue production in TLM. And then in 8 months, we have a decision that goes beyond that deal to increase the price to this particular private entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, it makes business harder for our economic operator in our Republic and, of course, it hides itself, because I see that it's only left on a few portals, on that main energy somewhere it's gone because someone didn't obviously pass, and the question is how is it possible that the four party contracts that the government signed have made a decision but then at the boost of HEP we raise the price of megawatts from 42.86 to 47.46. That's how it's gonna be with the citizens, and we've been talking about it all morning. It is the essence of this law, let us transfer it to an independent body to which citizens will appeal to an independent body called the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17436	Reply to the replica of my colleague Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17437	Just for a little while. I didn't understand this part about Aluminium, Mostar and TLM because as far as I can remember some members of your government, even the vice president of the government are on the indictee bench precisely because of your story with TLM and Aluminium Mostar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17438	And the last line has a colleague named Đuro Popioč. Here you go, buddy Drinker. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17439	... For Aluminium Mostar in prison. [[Specially enabled.]] I am, of course, proud to say, or to the defendant as you have already said, involved in solving TLM's problem. I hope you don't do something that's the worst thing for your solutions to keep that industry closed. But here, however, let me say something else. It's a big mistake, in fact, to falsely interpret that when you, here you are talking to invest and build new energy capacities, that is, these conventional energy sources that we're going to be able to do, here you are, in fact, contradictory, to determine our own destiny in terms of energy price. Well, that's exactly the opposite of what you're saying now that the market is going to fix it. So who's to say and who's to make unless you're going to negotiate like that and negotiate that the owner of Plomin C, we don't really know who it is, is going to sell electricity in Croatia. It is a free market and will be able to sell its produced energy to anyone on the free European market. And any other energy subject other than those to be subsidized. The same goes for all other investments. Well, of course, for Hep himself tomorrow if he stays or we don't actually know what you're going to do with HEP that part of the production in the state hands. So if you're talking about the market you have to be consistent with that. The market will regulate everything, and then whoever participates in the market will decide who they will sell the electricity to, and of course everyone who enters the supply and distribution will decide on who to buy the electricity from. And so that stupidity, I would say stupidity, that we are the eighth largest importers of electricity is pointless. One who will participate in the market because you are now fully introducing it will decide on this large market from which to buy electricity. And those who will produce electricity in Croatia will also decide on which energy will be sold at the end. So just get a little consolidated and focus a little bit and... [[The speaker's off the mic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17440	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Replication response, colleague Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17441	Well, yeah, it would be good if you'd been focused and allowed HEP to invest, for example. in hydropower plants and certainly with our production we could act at the price of how it will be on the Croatian market. I don't know which part of you is not clear. If we secure our own production in Croatia, if HEP provides its own production of electricity through hydropower plants, you will certainly have an impact on the price reduction, not when we are completely dependent on imports.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17442	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the club of independent representatives of counterpart Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17443	I will not act on what Mr. Komadin said at the beginning of the debate that everyone understands energy, but no one can live without energy. So I'm taking part of the debate in this discussion. Secondly, the debate on energy falls within the strategic, in my opinion, projects of the Republic of Croatia because there is no life or survival without it. And that is why it is good and responsible to approach this settlement of this law because in the world policy that I heard this summer from one of the delegates of the Vatican Commission who was supposed to establish relations with Patriarch Kiril in Moscow, and then surprised me that he arrived at that commission, the Vatican delegation, because he is agnostic, not a believer, but went to the Vatican delegation to establish relations and establish links between the Catholic Church and the Orthodox with the patriarch Kiril. I was a little surprised how he got there, and he said they were looking for a man who had a connection in Moscow, I volunteered to have connections and could easily get to Kiril. And then I asked him, and that's why I'm saying this, and what was in that message to the Vatican to Cyril? Any religious questions? It doesn't say that the issues were that Russia needed the energy market, which is Europe because it has enough, and Europe can pay, and the Vatican is the same issue to facilitate these agreements between Russia and Europe to reduce tension between the two churches. That was the reason for that delegation. Now that it was another occasion later, but the meeting didn't take place. But energy is also in the plans of major or very important institutions in the world and it is primary. Therefore, I would not commit myself here today for any other option in the debates, but we do mind passing many laws of urgency. I would like the Croatian Parliament to have what Mr Milosevic said to us to lack a strategic national development programme for Croatia. The strategic national development programme of Croatia and among the primary tasks of this programme would be energy and would be demographics, and they are so interrelated that demographic growth will not be unless it is accompanied by an energy good policy. So, I am not in favour of passing laws by emergency procedure, but I am in favour of that if the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not done so far, regardless of the omens, it is working to create a Strategic National Development Programme for Croatia for the next 20 years, and not that each government brings its own programmes for a certain period of time. It can do any ministry, any institutes but it must be teamwork and it must be an interdisciplinary approach. Such a programme would be advocated, once the parliamentary debate has passed and the Parliament accepts it, that all governments that are later established are obliged to implement the strategic national development programme of Croatia. This is the way we're always looking, in some tension that we don't really know what we're defending, and why we're behind and what might bring us a better future. The primary development objectives of this programme should be set out precisely in this programme of national development of Croatia. As I recall, there was one attempt to organize a council that would create this program, but neither did that council ever meet nor did that program bring it in. And when I spoke to an economist, he said no to Don Ivane, so there are 2,000 such programs, national programs. But they didn't go through the Parliament, they weren't accepted, and they have to go through it. So, I'm saying that we're not in a hurry to pass laws by emergency procedure, we've got a little bit of things going down, and so is this Energy Policy Act in Croatia. Thank you very much and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17444	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17445	The Honorable representative has stated that it is not necessary now to pass such a law but that we should have a strategy. This is about respecting the contract signed and some obligations that we owe as a Croatian state and all the discussions that were plus, minus 9 months it is absolutely clear that we have to introduce it, and as soon as the rules of the game have to have quality and clarity. So it has nothing to do with the energy strategy, and it's not true that this government doesn't have a strategy. It has a clear strategy and it consists of having a clear energy policy that says, not to import, be independent and produce enough electricity to meet our needs, and possibly export. And that's what we're doing right now, which is what's being prepared, that's those investments that have to substitute exports. Therefore, this government has made clear and implements this policy of independence of the energy situation in Croatia and that is what is key and clear. And further strategies that exist or do not exist need to be developed, but we do not have time to wait in realising the independence of the energy system and therefore this government is doing so immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17446	Another replica has a colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17447	Thank you very much. His colleague and last name Grubisic, Don Ivan, said that Croatia does not have a strategy or at least has no clear strategy, so the development of energy facilities and, in fact, access to the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia. To a good extent, this finding is correct. We remember here the debate also in the last term on the development and construction of energy facilities in the Republic of Croatia. It is also true, Mr. Grubisic, that each government invents a new energy facility and a new direction. Here, the carbon filling wasn't planned in, at least not as the primary goal in the strategy of last government. There was no mention of a Rijeka thermal power plant on gas that's only 15 kilometers from Plomin, 20 let's not know, but this one's on coal, and it's on gas. Three kilometers as he said Caine's passing the gas pipeline near Plomina. So, one general mess, and it's not exactly how the colleague who replicated you is, so I'm giving you the right to actually not have real strategies. We even had attempts to get nuclear lobbys into the debate here in the Croatian Parliament, to throw in as a result of the need to build a nuclear power plant in the Republic of Croatia, other nuclear power plants. Although we all know what happened in Japan and other nuclear ones, we're not talking about Chernobyl, etc. So, various lobbys of our governments are beating up whatever they want and then we don't really have the right energy development strategies in the Republic of Croatia. This is how various lobbies and this government are managed by how the course of development, the construction of energy facilities in the Republic of Croatia will continue. It's a sad fact, and it's the truth that you made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17448	Thank you, thank you, colleague Grubisic. It is the turn of the HDSSB club, and time will be shared by colleagues Boro Grubisic and Zoran Vinkovic. Vinkovic is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17449	Thank you. Among other things, the meaning of the state, other than the interpretation of the state in a narrow and wider sense, but the purpose of the state should be to create, above all, as comfortable as possible, as safe as possible, a cheaper life for its citizens. This law, regardless of whether it was signed, negotiated before today, before Friday when it is likely to be adopted, because it is adopted by an emergency procedure, and when it is practically Croatian, and this Parliament is forced by someone, and I would say and blackmail, although this law does not have to be passed on Friday. And I believe that it does not have to be delivered even on 1 July 2013 because all indicators say that this 1st July will not be the date of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Both Croatia and these Croatian citizens and this Croatian government have enough time not to put electricity and all energy on the market. But what this law is here at all, I will only repeat certain statements first of all by the Prime Minister and the honourable first president who said Milanovic a few weeks ago must collect, Cacic said introduce a number. After those statements to reduce smoking, to make less phone calls, etc. So here's a whole text that says that local heroes will no longer think about mayors, no matter what political options they were responsible for along with representative bodies, prevent the rabiding of the prices of all energys especially those relating to municipal infrastructure. The heating must be collected, and there was also on the current clock, they agreed in the Assembly of Zoran Milanović and Radimir Cacic here is expected to buy HEP by 5 and sell by 2. That's not working. In order not to transfer responsibility to others to the congregations and mayors, not to complain that they are the Kukuriku cities, we will take responsibility on ourselves. I, therefore, believed to my prime minister, believed that the government would be the one to take that responsibility, clearly and loudly both the prime minister and first vice president of the government, tell the citizens from tomorrow on 20, 30% or 37% up, that it would answer them and loudly that their gas had already been collected but there early in summer when there was no heating, when citizens would feel it already at 10, 11 months, that they would probably not have that average salary at 12, either, in order to pay that bill. I expected them to speak openly and clearly that a fixed cost was introduced for maintaining a system which most citizens in local self-government units built with those means of hired power, and one year even the Constitutional Court decided that it was the property of citizens, that it was not a municipal infrastructure, so after a year, when many companies had to return two, three or four thousand German marks at the time because it was the currency the only solid currency in Croatia, again returned to the fact that it was no longer owned by citizens. So, I'm going back to what I said was that it was the state that needed first of all to make a better life for the citizens. What do we have today? We've got a downturn in economic activity, we've got an increase in debt, an increase in unemployment. A week ago in Croatia there were 316 thousand, now 323 thousand unemployed, we have impoverished local and regional self-government, we have inflation, we have no social democracy we have neoliberalism, we have constant purchases of electricity, gas, fuel, fixed fees have been introduced, the toll has been collected. Here's yesterday at the Croatia-Wells game I noticed a really big example of this self-employment program. Congratulations to Croatia for winning the extraordinary game but I noticed in that sea of Croatian flags a transparent "Selling Pigs". Well, that says enough what the situation in Croatia is, it says enough what the effectiveness of this government is. HERA is just a body that is not even independent, but primarily a political body that will assume the responsibility of the government and tell the citizens, and no one will be able to rebel against it because it will be politically appointed to that body, that it will soon gather them all together. The aim of these laws is, among other things, to resuscitate public companies, to charge budgets, to suck and such empty pockets of citizens, there is the absence of announced large investments not only in energy but in large public investments, but in the absence of a new deal in Croatian way, and there is also an announced and unannounced new privatisation of public enterprises. In the end, this way of determining the price of energy is fraud and looting citizens. My colleague Grubisic will continue where I left off.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17450	Here I am going to continue in the style of my predecessor who would most likely say that I whispered to him, whether HERA or HEP will all pay for the Croatian pocket. What else do you say? I'm shaking. That is why the EU would ask or ask for ministers not to enter the INA Supervisory Board, the comment was shaking. Now suddenly it shakes because here is how this law should be adopted, I would say about the collection of electricity clearly and loudly, that all citizens know, as soon as possible, that the incompetent management of HEP would come up with certain funds that they are supposed to produce in an ecological way, and that what with the strategy drawn out so that 20-20-20-20 so from renewable sources, from environmentally acceptable sources, so instead we are making, or rather, convinced, and even the real first one without an quote, the real prime minister went to Istria with his head and beard to convince Istria and not Istrian to convince them that it is good to have TE on coal, and in Rijeka on gas. Croatia has invested in sources or production capacities of energy, electricity and other republics in the former Yugoslavia. The former Socialist Republic of Croatia. So we have an example of TE Gacko, so in Kolubar they made one block, so in Tuzla one block, in Kaknja etc. In Obrenovac, I apologize, not in Kolubara, but in Obrenovac, but that's what they say in the Kolubara region. It doesn't matter. We don't care about Serbia's geography right now. And now again, the first insists on building with Dodik together, despite all the environmental warnings, environmental activists, how it will change the vast valley of Neretva, starting from those upper horizons to Omble, that there will be a change. And you see things are simple, there are projects, energy projects and the Sava River and the Drava River, they're neglected by this government, I guess, because they're in Slavonia. Gangrene, coal is as black as gangrene. It's someone's interest, even if it's gangrene to get to it. I've seen a lot more gangrene so I'm surprised that a little bit or little mention of either the Bible or some medical stuff in the government. Everyone became doctors today, from drying hands to gangrene, diabetes, and I don't know what not, eyes, etc. It's true that there are wandering into so-called. the strategy. We discussed on several occasions here almost every year the energy strategy, the energy development of Croatia. It is true that the European Union is also seeking, demands that Croatia, therefore, be as energy independent as possible, that 20% of the fuel is produced from these biodeterminates, to reduce CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020. So that's why she makes me so sad and I'm shaking like she said, how come we don't listen to that. We listen to the need to introduce, so to distinguish the responsibility of HERA, the responsibility of HEP and the Government, the three-part decision-making on the price of the energy, so to speak, the trio but we will still transfer it all to HERA because we are not to blame when HERA is independent and raises the price of electricity. It is not Milanovic's fault that neither the first nor the first, but this very HERA independent one dictates European electricity prices to us. Well, it's hiding, hiding behind the name HERA, which is what our colleague Vinkovic said, who spoke before me, just illusoryly independent or independent, whatever you want. Those projects that Miss Holly was talking about while she was a minister and which she intended to implement and waste management in terms of increasing energy efficiency, there is no more talking about. I am sorry that she failed in this intention and that she did not further implement the policy advocated by the European Union and which gives the latest technological opportunities to produce energy precisely from such sources. 300 000 tonnes of Zagreb has waste that can be... 300,000 tons a year. [[You don't understand.]] We export our tree in logs to Te Pechuh, a city that has 500,000 inhabitants and... is heated on Croatian wood from Croatian forests. [[You don't understand.]] 90% of the tree comes from Croatia. We can't make our TE on... She's our tree, we give it to the Hungarians. [[You don't understand.]] The logs are being driven, you can see them on the highways and on state roads, to the Hungarian border, going to Pechuh. But that's why we're going to import coal from Brazil and China that's going to bring coal to Plomin on the cheap ships, and that's where we're going to lay it. Suitable for the development of tourism where in this branch or sub-border economy, I might call it, which is very consistent with this TE on coal and tourism, it's a fantasy. They're getting along. So it remains that we are passing laws that are once again hidden behind the European Union's demand, which is not exactly what the European Union is looking for, at least until 1 July 2013, at least until then, it does not look for but it is in a hurry. And he's not in a hurry when he needs a peddler in Klokočevik, a village near Slavonski Brod for 25 days, a man waiting for an incompetent HEP, building a house, to transfer the water carrier electric from the wall to the so-called. as we speak Croatian cheddar. For 25 days, a man made a request and waited. What about HEP's administration, what she thinks, that people are waiting for winter to do further construction work. Incompetence, sloppyness, irresponsibility, and still as it was. Where's that expedition, where's that new management? For 25 days, a man waits for a kennel to be transferred from the wall to the horn, to the pole, that's it. And not only that, but one of the former CEOs of HEP in the county tells me, he asks me what the CEO of HEP's name is. Yeah, now I'm finishing up and I'm going to say in an individual sense what he would do now has some problem with Dalekvod. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Coliga Grubišić, please finish.]] So what was the job of the CEO of HEP if he had no idea, if he asked those in the field? It's incompetence, ignorance, misunderstanding and this results in reduced investment compared to last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17451	Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17452	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17453	At the presentation of his colleague Vinkovic, he has a colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17454	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Col. Vinkovic, when you spoke about how today the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister speak about how responsibility should be taken, accept an increase in prices etc. I can't possibly be kidnapped by a spring 2009 memory when the whole world is shaking. Day after day, the famous banks with the highest possible credit rating fell, no one was in charge of the stock exchange, there was a rebalancing budget in Croatia with which salaries, pensions for 6%, etc. Because it was just a situation. Among other things, HEP Warming and HERA decide to increase the price of heating amongst other things and with my Grandgoreans. There was no responsibility in those same people. By the way, there's been some sort of housing council, citizens who are protesting, who have received a really impressive media space to protect these citizens. Today, however, the same citizens, the same citizens, are threatened by an increase in electricity. None of those powerful fighters are anywhere. They're not interested in these big-goreans today. I don't know why. But the most interesting thing is that this famously independent council of tenants is the head of the council in the local elections in two months' time on the SDP list. Very interesting. So much for some consistency. And that's why when I'm talking about this topic today that's definitely a problem, the problem is on one side and the business of HEP and all together, we just can't forget how we behave at certain times. That's why we at the HDZ club today all the time are discussing not in such a way that we feel we can't do that, etc. but simply that we must find a way to help the most socially endangered citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I'm looking for this time-out of seven, eight, nine months that we can fight. It is not a sacred letter to Europe that there will be a market for energy in Croatia, and it is not so much of an interest to them that they will squeeze us for it. They squeeze us for other things only us under the farce and under the fog of what really squeezes us, which is not done we want to push through what is very much with everything else that has happened to hit the pocket of the Croatian citizen. And I repeat, first an independent list, a struggle for the tenants and then on the list of SDPs for the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17455	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Reply to the replica of colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17456	Well, I wouldn't be going into a major case right now and who was on the Housekeeping Council, and who was and where he ended up on which list. However, this is about increasing 37% of the heat energy, which will likely, after its publication in the National Journal of this law, be granted to HEP under the quotes of the Independent Regulatory Agency license and citizens heating through heat, with 37% more expensive heating. However, citizens who have not yet received the account of this little colder month, 10 months will receive those heating up on natural gas will receive an account that is up to 20%. It will also get some new calculation of that heat energy through energy value plus that fixed cost, and since here I am also very well aware of what the calorie value of gas or the energy value of gas is to buy the cubic, to spend the cubicity without spending energy value. And look at the wonders, on all these possible accounts, that energy value is above the average energy value of the gas. It is never smaller, and those who heat up on that gas often see it does not do those blowers and do more oxygen and irregular combustion than see simply that there is more and more of this ordinary air mixed with hydrogen and which is very difficult to warm up certain spaces. So here is my reply to the replica, and this is primarily a decision to increase the price and heat and gas and soon the electricity I pray for, if anyone in this Croatia knows how to explain to me and the citizens how to calculate electricity. Here, I think he's gonna win the Nobel Prize.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17457	Thank you very much. And we have two replicas at the show of colleagues Grubisic. He's my first colleague, Gjuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17458	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You mentioned the term of energy independence and the obligation of Croatia to provide it in some context. I think it's another mantra or, in fact, the delusion of this government, which is persistently placed towards the Croatian public. It's unknown for what reason. And just when he's talking about building Plomin C, he's going to increase the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia which, of course, is pointless, because it's going to be coal, and as we know, unless we're going to re-exploit it, we're not exploiting coal, but we have to import it. So we won't be addicts if Plomin and decides to sell electricity on the Republic of Croatia market, although it can be sold anywhere with electricity, but we will be dependent on another energy source. It's coal. It's the same for gas. So if we're going to build gas power plants as well since we don't have enough of our own gas sources we're going to import that other energy that's not abnormal and that's logical, that's normal. No European Union country is energy independent regardless of what power plants it has or whatever energy it uses for its economy or for its citizens. But it is absolutely amazing and it is absolutely bad that for unknown reasons, the Croatian public is constantly trying to convince the government that if we build a conventional source of energy on fossil fuels, we will become energy independent. That's not true. That's what you've been right about. The only thing we have from our own sources is really forest biomass and biomass in general, these are water sources in limited quantities, and there we need to direct all of our energy and our efforts, of course and stimulate and encourage. And that's too little to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17459	Replication response, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17460	A fellow Drinker, the forest mass is not unrenewable, but when it is managed well by the woods it is then restored. So what's been cut is replanted and in 20 years, 30 years doesn't matter how much it always grows. So that's one thing. It's true that deception is actually, and not as you said, I don't know, it's the deception of this government that we can't do anything different than coal, so on fossil fuels, but we have thermal power plants on coal and on gas as planned. It's actually a hoax, and that's actually making us addicted to import again. Therefore, this time it is not imports of direct electricity as can happen in power lines but rather imports of raw materials, energy or coal or gas. Although for our purposes, as someone said here, we have 60%, but it goes away for some other purposes, right? So it's actually true that it's one deception I would say, although I say this government is once again mentioned with the former minister, Minister Holly has predicted many other projects that would be, in which energy would be a renewable energy source. But unfortunately, Grandma passed with the cookies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17461	Another replica has a colleague, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17462	So here we are today discussing both some time-out and trust in institutions and non-functioning etc. I mean we've had 8 years of time-out essentially in project realization, time-out in which we're essentially here right now where we are. And we signed, we made commitments. This government clearly wants them to be valued for what kind of market they have to make. This government cannot cover losses and so we go into deeper and deeper, deeper and deeper and worse ratings and non-workable subsidisation. Therefore, trust in the regulatory agency is something that is normal and to expect the parliamentary representatives to build and assist the image of Croatian institutions as well as the image of parliamentary representatives and not only the image, but rather those who are ahead of the work and approach of the Croatian state's trust and all those state officials who act in the Croatian state. This government wants through HERA to have a clear and transparent statement on market principles of what price must be, but this government will, may, will do so and will make all those social components that are necessary and necessary to help and do so to those who are unable to pay either electricity or heat heating etc. to ensure that they have the possibility of heating and electricity or gas so that they can live normally, have the dignity to function. So, the institutions we're building because we have to build them because of this time-out of 8 years I expect and believe and I call on the MPs to help us build it quality, not to tear them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17463	Replication response, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17464	Thank you very much. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to help a colleague from the HNS, we can organize a youth work action, you already know what it is, so we're going to go to Plomin 3, we're going to build Comrade Rade just write, we're going to work in the rain if we need to. And you haven't given me a replica of my presentation at all, but you've laminated the attitudes that you have and which you've already created by the basic text in this legislative proposal. But I would ask you, you may get the Nobel Prize as a reading of the electricity bill as my colleague Vinkovic said, because it's a real Gordian knot. When you get a payment, you can look all day at it, you won't understand anything. But please explain to me a sentence that for ensuring regular energy supplies, the Republic of Croatia is considered a responsible market. This is the first sentence on page 3. Come on, you tell me, is that right? And what does that even mean? Either HEP and Government are responsible for regular supply, etc.? So you let the prices get wild, determine them allegedly HERA to give the incompetent HEP administration money to keep doing what they wanted to do so far. The one from the former government, too. To be new Buljubashic again, but yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17465	On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister of Economy Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17466	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I, in my opening statement, have just explained what it means, I hope that I have explained well if we can't do this bilaterally, which means that the market is responsible for security of supply because I heard that it causes of course additional questions, so I had a need to explain it in the introduction. By the way, I called about two things. The first is the investment and investment cycle and the very often mentioned C-Blomina, on 1 April 2010, was presented with an investment plan by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which presented Plomina Block C as a priority in construction. Since your exposure to the esteemed representative Popiè went the direction of coal can only ask the question of which energy in 1.04.2010 was the construction of the C Plomina block to be if we are criticising and examining the origin of the coal used in the future Plomino C? And one more thing, given that very often, almost every debate withdraws this issue about the European Union, we may think if we repeat enough times that the European Union is not forcing us to do anything. So, it's easy to live, but it's not like that, if we go three steps back and we look, let's say our negotiating position and it's to close the chapter, it says that Croatia needs to fully implement the directive, that I'm not saying now, it's about the second, and in the meantime the replaced third package of the directive. And I repeat in the European Commission's published report, it warns us, which is not good, that we are late in relation to the commitments and times we have run for, that is, which we have defined to take our own obligation within it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17467	Thank you. We have four reported replicas. My colleague Vinkovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17468	Well, at the beginning of my presentation, I said what the state really is, which should be the meaning of the state. That all countries were, and that is what I draw there somewhere when a social democracy was founded here in Austria in 1892 when unfortunately this social democracy in 2012 turned into a neoliberal capitalism. I am not surprised, no wonder, that for ensuring regular energy supply of the Republic of Croatia, it is considered a responsible market. What then elections, which then Parliament, which government, which representatives, which mayors, mayors, mayors, indeed for what the whole selection procedure is when we're all practically thrown into the market. And we're going back to maybe that even original community, "I'm going to light you a little fire, and I'm going to thump you over the head.". And it's a law like this right now, it's the law of the market where big fish eat little fish, there's no other market. But there are countries that control the market, so the purpose of the state is to have a regulated market that will allow the flow of goods, people, everything else, are economic categories. I'm a engineering engineer, but I see where this neoliberal concept leads. It leads to the destruction of these Croatian citizens, to vacuuming and whatever else they have. From old foreign exchange savings, from pensions from Germany, Sweden or where they had to go to work, to sales of gold, to silver, to simply everything they had, to someone to say that they live better today, than they lived tomorrow, or 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17469	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17470	Final sentence. And of this responsibility, then I think of every Croatian citizen who hurts his head these 22 years, because there is no responsibility, no responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17471	Thank you. My colleague Grubisic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17472	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy Minister, you were in the same position back in 2010, when you were already calling for 2010. Well, it's not clear to me that you're calling, I think, I don't mean to defend, at least I'm trying to defend Mr. Poppie, but because you looked back on him, but you were in that government, too, so I don't know what you're talking about. Secondly, when you say we don't know what the market is, we know what the market is. So it's an offer-seeking, customer-seller. If he schedules a customer and makes an appointment in a situation like this, in such a difficult recession, in this great poverty of the Croatian people and all others living in Croatia, what does that mean? That we will not have supply, proper supply, regular supply of energy. That's the line I gave you, that's what he says. I would suggest that you change that sentence and say, "For the insurance of electricity prices is considered a responsible market."that would be right and not supply. It is not only the market that is responsible for supply, but also the state. Well, I guess the state won't allow Croatia to run out of energy, Croatia is ruling our first, in order that it can't reach, secure. Besides, you say Europe, we're late to have warnings from Europe? Not true, Europe has now given 10 points in its monetoring, the report on monetoring, among them is not this thing at all. Why can you do that to our eyes when it's not the subject of those 10 dots? And 11 points that haven't been listed yet, and I'm going to tell you here now, because I'm there in the election, is the paying agency in agriculture. That's not said yet, she'll come at the end when we fill these 10 in five months. Remember that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17473	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Tamara Obradović-Mazel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17474	Mr. Grubisic, I didn't turn my esteemed representative over to a representative named Popicorn, but I asked a question. In fact, at a time when Mr. Popiè and I worked extremely well together, and I refer to the document, I went early in 2010 for some other reasons. Let me ask you, I asked the question of which energy was involved in 2010 unlike today's debate on energy, i.e. coal and asking questions of its origin. So, we're talking about a project that is present in continuity, which is defined as a priority in 2010, which is defined as a priority in 2012. There was a debate on the type of energy to be used in block c. So I just opened up the question of which the energy is concerned and that question should not be taken as a predetermination. And let me know something maybe not all of it, but I do know a little bit about the functioning of the EU and how to read the documents. Every year you will have the most critical and necessary points that are set out in the report and which are an absolute priority. If you open the European Commission's report, you will see that of the 33 chapters in each chapter of 33 you always have warnings that something further needs to be done or that something is late and of course the priorities are not the same so that this one is not specifically put on the list of the 10 most important points that the Commission and the Member States consider to be priorities towards EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17475	Replica has a colleague, Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17476	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I would like to replicate to the Deputy Minister in the section relating to her statement she really made in her opening statement where she tried to explain what it means to ensure regular supply of energy to the Republic of Croatia is considered a responsible market. I think that's when you Deputys said that the market is considered distributors, energy producers that distribute and place that energy on the market. I don't think you have any further need to explain something that's written only in reason. However, what it says in its reasoning is contrary to the provision of Article 27 of the same law. In fact, it is quite clear that it cannot be that for the security and regular supply of energy by the Republic of Croatia, the Government or the Resorient Ministry of Economy is in charge, so I will also read to you what the article says. Article 27(1) states: "For ensuring reliable and secure energy supplies, the ministry is responsible", which means the Ministry of Economy in this case and in this law. Therefore, I do not know how such a formula came into the reasoning of the law when it does not say it in article 27 but exactly what it should be and how it should be, and this is for the security and regular supply of energy and peace, especially in the war or any other exceptional circumstances only the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for this secure and regular supply of energy. Therefore, you have no need to explain what it says in the explanation. In my opinion, it is one sentence that has absolutely entered into this reasoning, and there is no justification in Article 27. The law is clearly bordering on me not to say common sense, but that's understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17477	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17478	Thank you very much. I can only actually conclude that we don't have a problem in reason, which means that the market is responsible for security of supply. And since it's only an explanation as you have identified it in the law so that here I can also thank you for the added help of a colleague to whom this should have been further explained. What I said in the introduction, therefore, in a way that may be more plastic, a little more understandable that in the event of a disturbance in the sector market in the event of emergency situations, therefore, in the event that there is a need to react above those, for example, mandatory supplies that we must have at 90 days, that there is a state, state bodies that care about security of supply and that is exactly the explanation that I went with in the introduction of the law. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17479	And the last replica of my colleague, Đuro the Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17480	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Deputy. It's true that we've been together in the government for a while and we've worked very well together and today I'm sorry that you left us too soon... But as far as Plomin and our energy investment plan are concerned. It is true, 4 billion euros we put into this investment programme investments in energy including a set of power plants, hydropower plants and Kosinj and Sava, so the solution to the question of Zagreb, the power plant on Drava, was Plomin, it was also Ombla, all of which you of course continued to work and inherited. I'm just sorry that those prepared projects didn't come back to life. And these plants need to be built and of course you should build Plomin C. I personally would never continue to work on a 500 MW project but from 80 MW for the same money. That's the kind of offer we had. Whether it's coal, whether it's gas or not. But these projects need to be built and built simply as economic operators that will produce electricity as goods they will sell on the market. What I was saying, I was talking about is that we can't talk about energy independence if we're going to produce electricity from coal or gas that we have to import, import naturally as fuel. That's what this is about. I need to force the production of electricity from what we have primarily HE so that we can fully exploit the capacity of hydro potential and those renewable sources that are available. That's what it was about. I repeat, there is a need to build power plants, to continue to build both of them, of course, and the third one that has been prepared. But if it's fossil fuels, we don't have them and we can't say that we're going to be energy independent if we build those power plants.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17481	Thank you very much. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Party of Work, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17482	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Here I was thinking about going the other way, but since one question has been opened here that the previous Government thought when it came to TE Plomin and no matter what we heard here today, I think it is very important to talk about Plomino and all the other energy facilities that are planned in Croatia precisely because the adoption of this law that we have here today refers to all these future energy activities. On 16 October 2009, the Croatian Parliament adopted a new Strategy for the Energy Development of the Republic of Croatia, which was then in line with the European Union's energy policies. The main objectives of this strategy are the competitiveness of the energy sector, energy security and sustainable development. The strategy also set out the role of a country that primarily refers to security of supply. The security of supply in the electricity sector is also achieved through the construction of new facilities for which the interest of the Republic of Croatia is determined and, in this respect, the government, the former government in the former assembly, has also reached the conclusion that we have just talked about, on establishing the priorities of the construction of electricity buildings, and among other things, is the priority of TE Sisak, TE Plomin, HE at Savi, Ombla, Kosinj and HE Molva 1 and 2. When we talk about THE Three, then in this argument the Government does not stand which is the energy, but we do have a programme of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia in which it is decidedly standing and that programme is still in force. Particular attention should be paid to the choice of energy, should be counted on the use of gas wherever possible, either as domestic or as an import energy. By 2015, the Republic of Croatia will not be built or explored, i.e. the possibility of building thermal energy facilities on coal as well as nuclear power plants. In addition to all of this, in the construction or replacement of the plant procedures should be carried out according to the highest technological, economic and ecological criteria, with the recovery and arrangement of the plant's environment, improve technology and exchange of energy wherever possible. So, the Programme of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia is well-decided on what we have to do, what are our priorities, in which direction we should think, but it is obvious that in the desire that the investments of this government are at least 100,000 kunas higher than the previous investments, here goes with its head regardless, without respecting certain decisions and certain documents that are still as such in force. When we talk about a package of these measures that we bring here today, it is very important that the citizens of Croatia know what is waiting for them. We are talking about HERA as an independent agency, we are asking the question of how independent this agency is, but I think that by adopting any law here in the Croatian Parliament we should primarily bear in mind that this law that we bring to citizens, or to all of us in the Republic of Croatia. Do we adopt this law solely because we have to meet the requirements of the European Union, or do we pass this law in order to make it better for us in Croatia as far as energy policy is concerned. If we make the law because of us, it is very important for citizens to know what HERA means to them, which means decisions on energy prices and how much HERA as such is indeed an independent body. I am interested in this law and here is the proposal to explain to me what is to be achieved by centralising public procurement of electricity. Article 22 of the Proposal for a Energy Act introduces the possibility for a national authority or a legal person whose bonds are to implement the public procurement law to play the role of a central power supply body for the purposes of other institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, it is proposed at local or regional level. I think that the legislator should clarify why such a provision is introduced which may be problematic in application for several reasons. A large number of state bodies and legal entities owned by the state are present in the Republic of Croatia because of this as well as public procurement bonds. It is certainly very different entities, and from the point of view of their electricity consumption there are therefore different ministries, state hospitals, state-owned companies such as JANAF, Plinacro, HZ and others. Although we don't know their annual consumption, it's certainly very large and we've made a projection of the likely not below 2 million megawatts of hours. According to current market prices, this would be a public procurement of at least 120m euros, i.e. around 900m kuna. We must all agree that such a large supply is a very large and complex task. Subjects such as such have different consumption characteristics and do not have a lot of suppliers who can make an offer for such delivery. This means that the functioning of the market could be disrupted because many suppliers will be without real competition opportunities. Due to the lack of competition, there is no guarantee that centralised public procurement will achieve more favourable conditions in the competition. In particular, it confuses the idea to give one public contracting authority the role of the central authority for the procurement of electricity. It is logical that it cannot be any of the energy subjects due to conflicts of interest. I think the promoter should nevertheless specify which body or other legal person who is a public supplier has the ability to carry out such a complex task. The very notion of a central body for public procurement of electricity as such is unspeakable to me. Whether that body will only have the role of consultants for other contracting authorities or it will indeed obtain only electricity. The second option is I think it's contrary to the Public Procurement Act. There is also a problem with the position of public contracting authorities. One is the users of the budget behind which the Ministry of Finance stands as for those users, and the other are state-owned companies that are companies like any other. Why would we force them to make their public procurement through a central body? Isn't that actually a violation of their freedom of business? We're talking about the free market in the Energy Act, we're talking about public enterprises that aren't good masters. A lot of illogicalness is dragging us through our here debate here in the Parliament, and then in this law we're bringing in such a confusing article, so here's the only one I'd ask to explain it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17483	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. First Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17484	Well, my dear colleagues, I would very much agree with your debate. But first of all, here it should be pointed out, therefore, that this law is adopted under an emergency procedure not for the sake of the European Union, because this is not at the moment the priority of the European Union, but rather the priority of a public undertaking in losses and these losses must be covered by citizens. Similar to Croatia's citizens about that privatisation of banks from the budget, they gave a huge billion dollars and these banks sold for five, six billion kuna. But what bothers me the most is that there are young people here and there, probably one of them will be either an engineer of electrical engineering or construction industry here at the beginning of his term Mr. Zlatko Koračević, CEO of HEP where he says HEP has 4,000 people surplus but also 2000 missing. This is probably because the key problem is that HEP is an old company, and the average age of workers in production is 50 years. So I've been getting closer for 50 years, so I don't know if I'm old and I'm an agent. At HEP level of 13 and a half thousand workers, 3% are over 55 years old, while only 85 people are under 25 years old, so he announced employment and opening at least 500 jobs for workers and electrical and construction professions, and also announced an investment of nearly 420m euros in energy. Therefore, out of these 420m euros, investment has nothing, of these 500 jobs there is nothing. We only had two or three decisions from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the granting of multimillion-dollar loans in kunas or millions of euros no longer seem to be able to monitor the number of times the loan has been requested. And now we are asking for this heat to rise first, so very soon the day of publication in the paper will come the request to re-supply the electricity and gas that we are unfortunately importing, and almost all of Croatia's production will be exported at significantly lower prices. Now that's Croatian politics, that's what it's been all these 22 years. After all, it's the left and right who sold it to the INA. So does it even matter who sold it? We sold it all together and Croatia no longer has INA, no control over INA. You sold 25%, sold 25%, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17485	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17486	Well, obviously, we've got maybe a little bit of a difference in thinking, which is an emergency procedure, why something has to be brought in. Obviously because someone or threatened... or anything else, and then something needs to be done by emergency procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We heard here today in the Parliament the presentation of a colleague who said that foreign investors are hard to come with their capital in a country where tax discipline is not arranged, where people do not carry out their obligations. But it is obvious that foreign investors, no matter what kind of Croatians we are and what kind of state case we are, are very eager to invest in coal thermal power plants. We could ask why and why and why so urgently if Croatia writes in the spatial plan that by 2015 we don't talk about such things at all, then the question is why is it urgent. Is this urgent because we are talking here about a third package of energy laws that we need to comply with Europe or are saying that something is urgent for us again because of some other interests that unfortunately Croatian citizens have absolutely nothing to do with.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17487	Thank you. Next call from counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17488	Well, colleagues of Tyrelli, so it's quite clear that the outdated technology with, say, a discarded energy such as coal from all the countries is trying to push where it can be pushed, where it's a banana state as already said by the one that went to Croatia. I did not want to rephrase it to you, but I wanted to say that you have seen Article 22 well, and what is hidden in this, which says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the proposal of the clear ministry, does not need HERA here, can, too, empower the ministry, by its decision, that energy suppliers can be legal persons, and for the supply of energy and for the purposes of institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia. Do you know how many institutions are owned by the Republic of Croatia? In fact, do you think so, and that's what you're going to tell me in response to the replica, that it's a quiet privatization of distribution and the acquisition of energy? I'm not finished yet. So today who does this distribution and procurement for the institutions of the Republic of Croatia? He's working for the HEP. That means we're going to leave some of the activity and action and work of HEP to someone. Who? Well, most likely, like so far, there were some, or others, or even strangers who would be right. It is the beginning of the sale of one new piece of gold and silver from the Croatian state. Very quietly in Article 22. Here's the one you noticed, I'm sorry I didn't see it before, so it's either semi-privatisation or privatisation of HEP or Croatian energy resources. And that's sad. I think that, here, I'll hear if you agree with me, and if you think and think the same way I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17489	Thank you very much. Just give you one clarification. The new, i.e. the consolidated text of Rule 163a states that all laws which comply with EU rules are adopted by an urgent procedure. This is the law that bears the label P.Z.E. Replication response, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17490	Thank you. Here's to article 22, yeah, I'm on your thinking trail, so I mentioned it. I am sorry that no one else in the House today spoke in this article 22. ... That paragraph 3 is true and the power to, cannot be given to energy subjects, therefore, these powers, and that is what concerns me the most because I have a slight feeling that because of this letter E we put on these documents and push as an emergency for compliance with the EU legislation we allow us to move a lot of big things forward so that we simply fail to absorb them, analyze and detect them, and that in this high House we are qualityly discussing, and we are talking about all of our questions and we get quality answers for what we are here and here in this House and for which we read all these great laws. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Given the speed that all this is happening, given the strength of the emergency standing in front of us, I think that in most cases they are through P.Z.E.'s label. They bring in articles like this and they get through articles like this that have or will have long-term consequences, and then after three years, if the government changes or the government changes again, we're going to say what he was doing on the left, or what they were doing on the right, and we can't figure out that responsibility for all this is happening today on all of us together, and that's why we need to talk about these things. Because the things that worry us should get an answer like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17491	Thank you. And the replica has a colleague, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17492	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Tyrelli was talking about Hera's independence. It is, of course, a quasi of independence, in this case, the independence of HERA is set as one of the foundations of this law in order to remove responsibility or perhaps to catch another small piece of power missing from a political group in political bickering. Namely, who is protected and extended by this government? Protects monopolies, protects abstract EU directives, which is not the case, protects all but Croatian citizens. What future awaits us? A tiny example of Toplana in Karlovac. Toplan's company went bankrupt. It was founded in a hurry within a week of a new company, the bank sat down on Toplane's property on chimneys, boilers it already has and they are owned by the bank. A new company was established to which the activity was transferred, HERA gave them a concession within the time limit, and the bank gave the facility to leasing. So, citizens of the city of 50, 60 thousand inhabitants are currently warmed up by the mercy of the bank. It's working right now. Tomorrow the bank can simply establish forgiveness but we don't pay for it anymore, we don't want to do it anymore, put a lock on your heat, the heat's gone. Is that what's waiting for us in Croatia? Is that what's waiting for us with the power? Is that what's waiting for us with this heat in these big cities? That's the market. That bank can find out tomorrow that it's not worth it and it doesn't do it anymore and that bank can fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17493	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17494	My colleague Vuljanić here is in agreement with your question, but I think you may be wrong in that area that he protects, that is to say, this government weighs when HERA gives the powers it gives. I'd say maybe earlier that it's a little bit of a stretch, and if more of a responsibility was taken off, because, as we've heard today from the current government at the expense of the last government, it's always been the government's decision, you've decided so, you misjudged, you haven't made a good strategy. Well, now we have HERA, and then the government has open arms in that segment to say we didn't have any influence, we didn't decide on it under the Energy Act to decide HERA as an independent body. And as for this other question you've been asking about Carlovec and everything, I think it's again, that we're going back to another topic, which is the subject of governmental property management. A state property management strategy we unfortunately still don't have. But it must have become modern and good for us to pass the laws in reverse, and then we first pass the law by emergency procedure, and then after a while we pass a law that should actually be before this by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17495	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Tamara Obradović-Mazel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17496	Thank you. A couple of eyes. I'm going to start with this last, example of heat in Karlovac, it's also connected to the management of state property. I'd like to remind you that the toplana of Karlovac, first of all, has to be asked why and how they got into this situation, you have to know that. Secondly, the heat controls, you asked the question of state property management, I hope at local level, why? Toplana Karlovac is in the governance structure at the level of local self-government, so you may have cited it as a by-product, but you should know the reasons, or causes of the current state. You also asked a question, or you commented on, one of your colleagues, at the price of gas, so that we export our Croatian gas at a lower price. The contract should also be made and executed, an insight into the contract that is now regulated by the state of the respected representative Vinkovic set up, so the export of our Croatian gas at a lower price across the border. That's what you described in your presentation. And you need to see that contract and see since when this contract, since when this contract is in effect, is based on what is just happening, to know why it is so. And lastly, you asked a specific question about central procurement, in every area of activity, today it's the Energy Act, it can be medicines, it can be office material, it can be anything. So this is an option, this is an option, this is not an obligation. First and foremost, let me say that it is not a commitment, that it is not a norm that prescribes the obligation of public contracting authorities to central supply of energy, everyone, not just electricity. It is already an option that if we follow the purchasing logic of large numbers, it is natural to expect to achieve certain discounts in the negotiations with the supplier. What is the philosophy of central procurement is that generic, not everyone for themselves, but that generically obtains the same object to obtain, to provide for it equal service, equal spare parts and so on. And, of course, above all, have a reliable supply chain, and thus in combination with a lower price. So this is a segment of central procurement, which is allowed by the Public Procurement Act, which is now in use through the procurement of medicines for hospitals, if you have followed, it is simply a mechanism that is allowed here as well. Everyone uses electricity and this is the possibility that out of 10 or 20 institutions one gets absolutely for everyone, thus ensuring security of supply, there is one supplier and above all there is a lower price than that each individual gets for himself. And in that segment exactly the opposite, when you mention HEP, HEP can't do it, HEP can't do it as a purchasing body, as a central body of procurement because it's a provider itself. Thus, such a described situation cannot naturally come.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17497	Thank you. We have four replicas, but since it's 13.30 and that at this time and committees, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours and then the first one, the first one will have a replica of a colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17498	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. The Republic was reported by a colleague, Vuljanic, but is not there. My colleague Grubisic, he's not here either. My colleague Tyrelli, she's not here either. Nothing, we're continuing an individual discussion. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17499	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here it is, at first I will say a few words, and I will, of course, support this Energy Act because I was motivated by a whole series of claims that were made during this morning's debate, which are going towards the third European energy package being implemented, i.e. the Croatian legislation is now being pushed against European legislation because it is in the interest of HEP. I would like to point out here that this is the third European energy package that has come very, very hard, and this is precisely thanks to the very strong resistance given to the third European energy package by energy monopolies throughout a number of European countries. And I am 100% sure that HEP would be very happy if the third European energy package was never implemented. And for this reason, I am sorry that certain elements of the third European energy package have not already been introduced into Croatian legislation. In fact, we are aware that the situation when you have a monopoly when a company has a monopoly on the market has absolute control over everything that happens on that market. We saw that there were very strong resistances to the introduction of competition on the taxi market in Zagreb and what finally led to the introduction of competition on the taxi market in Zagreb. It led ultimately to the cost of the service. We see what happened on the telecom market where we also had a situation for years where one operator had a monopolitical situation, a position and when the second one came first, and then the third operator the situation changed drastically and that led to, of course, a decline in the price of services. I think that the introduction of market principles into the energy market can only benefit Croatian consumers. Of course, it will take some time, and in addition, this principle and certain postulates the third European energy package will lead to a growing number of private investments in electricity production, which can, of course, only benefit for the economy of the Republic of Croatia and lead naturally to an increase in the share of renewable energy sources in Croatia. I remind you that the Republic of Croatia is temporarily closing Chapter XV. in the obligation to apply all the provisions laid down in the third package of European Union energy regulations. However, of course, the adjustment in question must not only be a consequence of the European Union's request but it should be a genuine wish by the Republic of Croatia itself to establish a more modern and business-friendly energy sector. In fact, the current state of the Croatian energy sector is not even a little flattering and characterizes it by the following lack of interest of investors to invest in the energy sector, bureaucratic obstacles and complicated procedures to approve the construction of energy facilities, pricing is not marketable, there is no quality and sustainable system for the protection of socially endangered customers and there is no real possibility of changing the electricity suppliers, i.e. natural gas, and the entire energy sector is dominated by two companies, i.e. INA and HEP, i.e. companies derived from these systems. In order to stop this unfavourable trend, the energy sector must be open based on market principles and integrated into the internal market of the European Union, and here I remind you that in 2015 we are entering a common European electricity market, which is exactly what they advocate and are looking for certain Directives of the third energy package of the European Union. I therefore believe that the energy sector should be seen as an infrastructure but also as an entrepreneurial activity that promotes economic growth and employment, with the necessary care of the environment. The third energy regulation package of the European Union consists of two directives and three regulations aimed at creating Europe's single energy market in the electricity and natural gas sector, and allowing end-users the real choice of suppliers, and effective protection of socially sensitive customers, and in order to achieve those objectives, it is necessary to effectively separate regulated networks from market activities, i.e. from production and supply of energy, to enable the market for prices, i.e. the liberalisation of the energy market, and in this context, I remind it again of this year 2015. Finally create preconditions for an effective level of regulatory oversight, i.e. to strengthen the role of an independent regulator, i.e. HERA. Although the third European energy package provides three options in terms of separating networks from market activities, I am deeply convinced, and this is what we said in the SDP during the campaign that the best effects for reviving so much for the country of the significant energy sector will be achieved by the full ownership of the transmission and distribution system operator in the electricity sector, i.e. the release from HEP, which means the establishment of new independent companies fully owned by the Republic of Croatia without any possibility of privatising those operators because network infrastructure activities represent natural monopolies that must be controlled and managed by the state. A positive experience with an independent transparent system operator in the natural gas sector is the PLIN-A-CRO company that was created by INA is more than a good proof of the correctness of that position. To resuscitate the dead, the energy sector also requires a fully independent and independent HERA regulatory agency, which must be fully autonomous to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, mainly in the section relating to the definition of the price of regulated activities, i.e. when selecting regulators. However, although the final proposal of the Energy Act brings praise to the implementation of many of the provisions of the third European energy package, there are some details in me that cause concern. For the first time, Article 11 provides that funding for energy programmes and projects will be implemented through a fund to finance energy efficiency and use of renewable energy sources. I think it's very unserious to put in a provision like this, not precisely to specify which fund is specifically under way, so I'd like to be given an explanation of this article. This provision is in stark contrast to the provisions of the Fund Act, but also to the environmental directives. Namely, the funds aimed at improving the environment cannot be financed, and I quote: "energy programs and projects of the general type." If the ministry targets another new fund, then the law should say that again the weak sector of the environment would not become a victim of a significantly more powerful energy sector. It is an unusual Article 4 which states that the locations for energy facilities entered in spatial plans of state interest for the Republic of Croatia because, literally, following this provision in the case of TE Plomin C, i.e. 3, this power plant that is not listed in the Istrian County spatial plan would not be a location of interest for the Republic of Croatia. The question is also why Article 5 of the Article 4 of the existing law, which states: "The energy development strategy must be in line with the programme of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia and the plan for the development of the Republic of Croatia." I think that given the extent to which the energy sector has an impact on climate change, it should also add that the strategy will be drawn up to comply with the strategic documents relating to climate change, i.e. the low-carbon strategy and adaptation strategy. Article 6 has significantly diminished the importance of the Parliament in relation to the existing law. The deadlines have been extended, and the government decides whether circumstances have occurred for the Assembly to report on the implementation of the strategy. Given the importance of energy for the country's strategic development, this is a difficult provision. Is Article 4 of Article 13 related to HE Dubrovnik 2, and does this already count on the possibility of the BiH balance sheet being adjusted? If so, it would not be, in my opinion, acceptable to the Republic of Croatia. I welcome the provisions of Article 13 which prevent the export of electricity produced by privileged renewable energy producers, and as regards Article 39 relating to end-users under special protection, I believe that the law should already define what is considered to be energy poor households, are those households that spend 10, 15 or 20% of the household budget for energy needs? I'm afraid the model so far
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17500	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17501	And I mean two, there's a debate. I didn't even get to touch this. ... And then I'm gonna have to do replicas, okay? No problem. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17502	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear colleague Branko Bacic is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17503	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy with associates and associates. The HDZ Club during the morning expressed its position on the Energy Act, I just want to say in the introduction that we support the clear implementation and third energy package of the EU, we support that it is implemented in Croatian legislation, but what we do not support and what we do not think is that, through the provision of liberalisation and independence of HERA and energy markets, it is possible to simply increase energy prices and maintain that this third energy package can be implemented on the one hand, this law or a set of laws that bind to that third energy package, but on the other hand protect the standard of Croatian citizens that has been significantly destroyed by government measures, projects, decisions and laws of the Croatian government over the past 10 months. And it was during the morning one of the most important excerpts from the discussion of us at the HDZ Club. But I would now return to the provisions of the law that I think, even if I did, the law that I don't think was in everything that this law should have. In fact, building energy facilities of energy plants has a significant impact on the environment, so all energy-defined laws need to be released to the public, to conduct a real public debate. In fact, representatives of the Green Action were present at the meeting of the Environment Protection Committee. They made their point that I agree with, and that is, that this law should have passed the right debate in the public, not that it is practically going to public debate during the summer break of the 10th Colovos, during the summer months and practically without publication in the media, without anything being passed a law that is very important, I say from the aspect of environmental protection. This gives the impression that the law is addressed to a public debate of pro form without the desire to hear interested public, professional organisations, civil society etc. etc. So I think that in this way we did not respect the regulation on information and participation of the public and the interested public in environmental protection, because this is very closely related to the Energy Act. But it seems to me on the threshold of otherwise the actions of the Ministry of Economy, that we also heard it this morning in the debate, that the first president signed it, seems to me in Banja Luka, some agreement whose text I still don't know today, for the upper horizons, with the prime minister of the Republika Srpska government. Which, by all means, decides on further status,... the environment in the Neretva valley without public participation, without the participation of units of local self-government in the area of Neretva, without the participation of Dubrovnik-Neretva County etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it seems to me that somehow quietly this law is addressed to a public debate is not a set of circumstances and the need to adopt itself as soon as possible in the Croatian Parliament, but simply an attempt to get out of the increase that makes it both civil society and interested public, etc. etc. What is not good, colleague Holly mentioned Article 4 earlier when talking about the locations of energy facilities that must be aligned with the state spatial plan. I must say that I am surprised that this law has passed the government procedure, that it has been in government coordination, that it has been in the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and that no one has noticed that there are simply no state spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia. There are no such plans in Croatia, there is a spatial planning programme in Croatia, there is a strategy of spatial planning, there are spatial plans of county, spatial plans of urban planning of cities and municipalities, there are detailed urban plans and urban planning of planning. Such plans are not and would not be good if this House today passed a law in which we are bound by a document that does not exist in the state. I wrote the amendment, but since our amendments don't pass I beg you to, here's to change that article. To consult a little and formulate this paragraph 1 of Article 4 in a way that is consistent with the spatial planning documents of the Republic of Croatia, not with the state spatial plan. Because it's simply not such a plan, and it wouldn't be good, if it were to go through the government and the Parliament procedure without anyone noticing it. Furthermore, what I was about to say is that this law provides for the establishment of an Energy Efficiency Agency and renewable energy sources. The law itself states that this agency can be established. I think it should not, but I think that agency should have been established long ago and for the reason that Croatia has taken over the obligations of those we have heard many times this morning, 20, 22, so 20% decreased CO2 emissions, 20% of renewable energy production and 20% in increasing energy efficiency in the Republic of Croatia. If for something, if there is a need to make some advances so that we can in large part meet how the Member States, the European Union member states and the commitments we have made from, in this, in the energy chapter, then it would be necessary to form that agency as soon as possible. When you look at the state budget, it was already at the position of the state budget, and at the positions of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning was planned somewhere around 2.2 million kuna for the establishment of the agency. However, the agency suddenly came to another plan. The right plan came up with a business monitoring centre for the energy sector which, by the way, is not even mentioned in this law, but is mentioned by the agency for which there are resources in the state budget and which I think would be very much needed for its establishment. Its establishment in this law is spoken of in a way that can be established. I think that it is necessary, necessary and that it takes up a large part of the powers that we will assume today if there is a debate or tomorrow, or Friday, if we adopt this Centre Act, the great powers of the agency and the agency that should exclusively deal with energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, the center, the centre that is already functioning, and which, in my opinion, cannot respond to those jobs arising from this law on, from the Energy Act. In fact, the first vice president announced that during 2012, large investments in raising energy efficiency in the first row of public sector buildings would occur, there seemed to me to be around 2 billion kunas, that they would be invested in the project. It seems to me that this project has experienced a complete fiasco, that this project has been led by this energy sector monitoring and business centre and energy investment. Because as far as I have knowledge, and it seems to me that on the portal of the centre, very, very, very few public buildings in the Republic of Croatia are involved in this project. We even heard that simply ministry officials and all together were not trained enough to implement this façade arrangement project in the Republic of Croatia, with the aim of raising energy efficiency and with the aim of meeting this obligation to simply reduce the energy consumption by increasing energy efficiency and in part in the public sector. This is what I will conclude, in the HDZ Club, that it is necessary, that a third energy package be implemented, but that we do not link this with the need to allow the energy prices of any kind of energy, any gas, or heat, to be electric because it is neither the time in view of all the increases and additions and the decline of living standards, it would be good to allow that provision in which energy prices would be left to be determined independently of the regulatory agency to remain in the government's jurisdiction to take due account of the social status of individual citizens and in that part in which energy prices will be prolonged as already in the 58th article, therefore, in the transitional and final provisions of Article 24. take effect as I said this morning only after Croatia's accession into full EU membership. So that trail is likely to be followed by HDZ representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17504	Thank you. With a desire to replicate you, a respected colleague named Zeljko Kolar appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's counterpart Bačić at the Environmental Protection Committee where we were together while there was a Green Action, and now we said that the ministry opened a public debate in the 8th month and that this was purposely done so that the Green Action and other associations couldn't get involved in the debate as if they wanted to hide something. We're looking at it differently right now. We're looking at it means that the government has been working all summer to get this package of laws right now in front of the council benches. And if we stick to it then it turns out that the beginning of school fairies when the annual vacations of the Republic of Croatia are practically for all citizens and that at the end of the 8th month or the beginning of the 9th month and on the coast and in Dalmatia and up to 15.9 it means that the government should do absolutely nothing at that time. So I don't think that's correct. It's on one side. And on the other hand, you're right when you talk about the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia that it does not exist and it would be good for the promoter to correct it to accept the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17506	The replica will be answered by the esteemed Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Kolar, you don't exactly see her the other way around. The government put the Ministry of Economy Law on its portal and went on vacation, that the government worked this summer then had to organise several public presentations of the law, the organisation of the stands, round tables, invite the interested public and then get to know them what the bill takes. The government told her in silence without any notice set up the Energy Act on the portal, she went on a nice month's vacation and didn't do anything under that law and so the law came to the government and here we are to the Parliament. But sometimes from the experience that has been happening to us over the past nine months, it would be better if the government did as little work as possible because it would often do less damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17508	Thank you very much. But the government wasn't on vacation for a month. It was only a dozen days. The individual debate continues with the esteemed representative Marijan Skvaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17509	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected Madam Representatives with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I can also say that I support the adoption of these laws as well as the HNS club because this is primarily about roof law for the entire energy sector. Before we define that part, I'd still be able to answer some questions. The question is, is the development of energy and the electronic sector even of the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia? Do we have enough of our own energy resources? Did we invest enough in them? Are we importing expensive energy? Are we completely dependent on them? Do we even have a lifesaving and responsible attitude towards the energy sector and energy in general? And when we define such a question and we go to answer that, I don't think we'd all like the answers. Well, perhaps that is the reason why, above all, we must put in place a legislative framework for the reconstruction and reorganisation, and above all, we need to fulfil our obligations by including in the EU, or the third energy directive package. This package primarily determines the postulates of the entire energy sector in order to operate the common market and through which the EU energy system will be connected from 2014 and through it will be sold uninterrupted throughout the Union. This is very important that this will organise the market in a way that there will be the same game rules for all market participants. We talked about the market a lot, and above all, when we talk about the market offers and demand, we talk about responsibility, about expertise, and we might all want that market in a way that we don't need to get involved so that someone decides for us, and all of us in that part defines the rules of the game. In any case, those market participants who are and are, above all, those who produce energy or energy, or those who transmit or distribute energy, as well as customers and end-users, will be able to change the supplier and the like in the telephony. So you can really define in that market that we can get either a better offer or a cheaper service. It's up to us, you can tell from these cases of telephony, when someone isn't answering, you can change that. It's... a case with that being possible. Of course, we're the ones who have to decide what's more favourable to us the better. This law also opens up markets primarily of electricity and gas so that it will provide for clear insight and... principles of the functioning of networked systems as regulated activities of operating rules, all of which are services, and above all public services that are public and as such transparent. There is also a basis for ensuring conditions for security and quality energy supply, market development, price competitiveness, consumer protection, reducing negative environmental impacts and sustainable development in the energy sector. And, of course, in all that context of the market, we have repeatedly said that the most dependent and important price is the price. Article 28 is defined which is the price for the final buyer. It's primarily the part that's freely negotiated, it's on the free market. Energy prices on the open market must be respected and, of course, sufficient and continuous supply is provided. The second part of the price to be regulated, which may be determined by applying the tariff system, is determined by HERA, not by the Government so far. The amount of the tariff is proposed by the entity and HERA accepts or rejects and can set the amount of the tariff itself. In doing so, the amount of tariff reflects the price, maintenance of this system, the necessary development of the system and the recognised costs of business. That's what we have in that part that doesn't matter when you have one boiler room that supplies one building or you have a whole system that supplies, say, the city of Zagreb. Of course, prices are different, but the price requirement and that regulation must be very well defined by market circumstances and of course an explanation. There is also a third part of the fees and other charges prescribed by specific regulations. The benefits for renewable energy sources are determined by the Government, and the Ministry of Finance determines the amount of excise duty for, say, oil products, and the entry into the European Union will also determine for electricity and gas. Of course, in Europe, the general rule that will be with us is that this part for production and industry, agriculture or other manufacturing sectors, excise duties will be among the lowest, and for the personal consumption of excise duties are among the larger. There's also an important definition to define so-called. The universal power supply service that goes through HEP, so it is equally important to be everywhere in Croatia. It is not, however, the cost of the supply of electricity on islands, in mountain-mounted areas and other things. Of course, everyone would offer the price of supply, again I am talking about urban areas, in Zagreb, and it would certainly not be interesting for anyone to pull gas, electricity, heat into mountainous areas, and especially what I said on.... This directly defines that we all have the same cost, the same price and the same conditions of business and life. The new law also defines and for the first time allows so-called. green certificate. Whoever of... or the end-user wants green energy, it's primarily from hydropotentials, wind energy, biomass or solar power will get it. It also introduces the possibility of compensation for heat produced from renewable sources, etc., of electricity through tariff systems and of adopting a new single law on renewable energy sources in the future. There... I would mention that we talk a lot about renewable energy sources, we talk a lot about CO2 reduction. Little has been done in Croatia, here on biomass we have practically one or none of the plants, now this section of the wind power plant has been invested in these 6 months more than 8 years in this part. It is once again one basis that what is important means that renewable energy sources can very well be defined in that part. I would especially mention this social component that we particularly emphasize, but it's never good for us to solve the social component through the price of supply energy. It must be two different things because first of all, it's not transparent that the price we buy, for example, which was before for 3 kunas, we sell 2.2 kuna to the consumer, we create loss. This loss will have to be paid naturally by other resources or by increasing excise duties or by increasing the tax share or what has always been so far, walking around the world and borrowing. Here, I think, and this proposal that we have the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth also see that in that section for those who need it, who cannot pay such a price of energy,... must be set realistically, marketable, to help such people in that part. Of course, there is also what I would point out if the new law also highlights the importance of infrastructure, i.e. ownership becomes a responsibility. For example, you won't be able to come and say that you don't want the refinery, that those small mini heats or utility companies that we had this year, here it is also said that they don't get paid, they go bankrupt, and what our citizens don't have in the end, they don't have maybe a gas delivery or somewhere. In this case it won't happen because... HERA will be very able to control it and we point out that there must be a general social interest that must be greater than individual or private. And what's important is what I'd like to mention in all of this, the involvement of the local community. As mayor, I really must say that the work and order of the organization in a way that we can all plan it together in our budgets. This is the end of the year, and it is good that, both on state and local budgets, we can define urban and municipal measures, above all, and measures for the development of capacity itself, for energy, and for the investment component, a very important social component. Based on this information, this law, one synergy between the government and the local self-government and administration can be very good at accessing that part. I would say the same thing about local self-government, I can say that they now have their own mechanisms at their disposal that they can... because cities and municipalities most probably do not have, above all, professional resources that can carry out such complex and responsible tasks of investment in energy and can seek help from higher levels, the level that this law allows. That's the most important thing. We are not on our own, but that part is very helpful. There's one more thing I'd also like to mention, Article 42, buildings built without a building permit cannot be connected to a network or to energy. This may seem banal but it is also related to these laws that we do for legalization of illegally built objects, and most of all concerns the local part if there is an orderly system, good measures, good laws if they are sustainable and operational in our area. That is what we can really say that such a law needs to be brought as soon as possible so that we can bring measures to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17510	Thank you very much. The exhibition will be replicated by respected counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17511	Thank you. You were talking about the inability to connect, which means energy water or something in that sense to non-legislative objects. So do you know that there are 11,000 illegal cottages on the island of Vir, of which 6000 have connected electrically, neatly, and that hour and all together. Does that ring a bell? Furthermore, you were talking about how electricity can't be produced for three kunas or how you want energy, this is electricity, and you can sell it to the end-user for 2 kuna and someone has to calm it down. Well, it's calmed down with 25% VAT and all and lots of others. In addition, it is well known that they are not in coordination with the prices of oil derivatives on the so-called so-called ‘. the Mediterranean market and the world market. We have a paradox. On the world market, oil prices are falling, and we're growing. How is this harmonised energy prices? So this liberalisation, in fact, is about liberalisation briefly and clearly, and it says in the material itself, will lead to today's day of the poor, the World Day of the Poor, in fact, being quite symbolic here and this law, in some ways by the majority, of the Parliament's majority adopted so that we can confirm this poverty in everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17512	The replica corresponds to the esteemed colleague Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17513	Well, not only do I know there are a lot of such objects on the Vir that are not legally connected, the whole sea is like this to us, and the whole of Croatia is unfortunately like this, and this is seen from that discussion that we had as many as 450,000 illegal objects that should have a connection. And that is what was not good and what we and our people and we must learn before entering the European Union that there are both different laws and different provisions, because otherwise there will be no way out. On the other hand, you may really be right that the long-term part, the activity, and the work that we really go below the price, just to pin it on someone, to buy voters, and to have a forced peace. We pay today with a more expensive price and an increase of maybe VAT, but the least we need to do is go into debt and create some more dubiosis in this country. The 2 billion kunas that we've entered this year that we've reduced the deficit is not easy to overcome, but I think this government is doing very well. On the other hand, the price is always defined and indeed in the first place. But here, only if we're talking about... Energy and around the price, so let's be lucky to have a little more rain, and the measure of no longer being stolen from HEP, no carrying bags, and we don't hire fictitious people, I think it'll be a good base so we can quickly reduce the price of electricity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17514	An individual discussion of a respected colleague, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17515	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy Associates. Here I am, in my debate today, going to try to say something about this law, although a lot has already been said today in an entire morning debate by a number of parliamentary deputies. Looking at the text and the looks of these two laws, it looks really good, it's all detailed, it's all from the smallest concepts to the whole definitions. An attempt to address the issue of energy management in a comprehensive way in the Republic of Croatia. However, I say all of this looks nice even though we have heard there are many marks today, there are these small doubts that we as parliamentary representatives want to highlight here, we want to discuss. I will try to enter into the essence of these two laws, because I believe they are connected and for me, the essence of these two laws is folded into the next. The first is that one law and the other legislation speak of the price of energy for citizens being determined by an independent HERA agency. The second point of these laws is that a new agency can be established. Thirdly, it is possible that through these two laws, we are trying to take over the responsibility of a fund that we have also heard a few things about in the discussion of the distinguished SDP counterparts. And the fourth most important, that the market is freely formed, that the government no longer wants to intervene in the energy price system. Well, before I go there, I'll say it's a good thing that we have the opportunity through this law to unite public procurement that gives possibility to local self-government. Because there has been and is happening today that local self-governments that are bonds to publish public procurement tenders for public lighting within their municipalities, cities they manage simply win in the competitions of distributors using HEP infrastructure, and they have a cheaper price of energy, which is a surprise to many of them because the question is how is possible. If indeed the state can unite that procurement by a dozen, twenty local self-governments, if the money is to be saved, it is certain that to welcome such an opportunity is given by this Law. For me, there is little doubt in article 36 that suppliers must notify customers of the origin of energy at least once a year. Now I don't know what that means, whether I, as a buyer of that energy in my household, don't know 10,000 kilowatt hours a year get a report from HEP at the end of the year that I got 3,000 kilowatt hours from the wind park, I don't know the wrong way, that something came from the Senj hydropower plant, something from Krško nuclear power plant, or what it's going to look like. I think maybe it's an unnecessary administration, because people's favor is more important than being the source of their service. Here, maybe the deputy will need to explain it because it's totally unclear to me what that means. I have already mentioned the establishment of an agency listed in Article 14 and that is one of the things that I think is important because it shows up a lot in all these laws that come from the Ministry of Economy. And what do we have here? It says the Agency for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy can be established. And what do we have among these 30 agencies that the Croatian government has already established? We have the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, so we have the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, so we have the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre, and now as a fourth here's the new Energy Efficiency Agency and renewable energy sources. I won't mention that we have various other agencies like the Pressure Equipment Agency, such as the Spaces Agency, threatened by the explosive atmosphere, etc. I think maybe the action that this new agency could take could be placed in some of these existing agencies that we have, and we really have a lot of them. As for that basic message that's been going through this debate all day, which is the story of the heating prices and who's going to determine them. The government said we'll take it upon ourselves instead of a local self-government unit that doesn't want it. And that would be fine. However, we see through these legal proposals that the government will not determine it, but it will leave it to its new agency that already exists, but to which it is assigned. It is obvious that the government is running away from its responsibility, it wants to have clean hands towards the citizens, although here I will give an example, an example of the city of Rijeka that this year, in the 1st month, collected bills for heating the entire 60%. So on one 80 square-square apartment, the average family pays the difference compared to what they had last year in the amount of 560 kuna. So let's imagine, I say when we really let HERA determine that for those 5, 6 cities that don't want what's going to happen to these users and how it's going to look this winter. When we talk about heating on the islands we don't have gas, we don't have the opportunity to connect to fixed nets, but what was on the islands as energy in times when diesel is. The vine oil was cheap all they built central heating on the lodge oil. Today, the difference in 2012 from 2011 to 2 thousand liters is almost 2 thousand kuna. People resort to other energies, mostly trees that are still the cheapest and of course we wonder why our electricity consumption fell, why we're falling out of oil derivatives and everything else. I don't think this law in that part has hit and that it will be marked simply and next year by the fact that it will fall the consumption of all the energy that it is responsible for, which I say the supply that the government has written to itself here, we have already explained in one part that it is in charge and must secure the market, and in the other part that it is the competent ministry. I think here, in the end, I have already mentioned today the problem of this independence or the dependence of that agency that exists, which is now in some way further ensured through certain legislative proposals, I am talking about HERA. We have seen on the example of HANFA also, other agencies, the independence of these same agencies from the policy of this government. I think the same thing will happen to this one. I cited today an example of aluminium and the ratio of that aluminium and respect for the signed agreements that the government approved and signed and the way HERA annulled it and increased the price of this aluminium so that TLM's work in Sibenik came into question. It's something that needs to be cleared up because I say if we approach everything in a way that's all right, that's all the nice fact is that all of this eventually breaks down on the back of the citizens. And by accepting these two I say the form of the law and the fact that the market that will continue to regulate the prices of heating energy, I guess all other energy and gasoline, here I don't know if HERA is going to regulate and the price of gasoline, so far the ministry has always given an opinion on the prices, I'm afraid that the electricity prices have now become only the sky has become the limit in this way and that the government is running away from wanting to intervene and that it can intervene at that price simply told the citizens that they were alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17516	Thank you very much. We've got two lines reported. First respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17517	Thank you very much. I'm going to start at the end of your presentation, so it'd be vivid that the government washes its hands like Pontius Pilate with Hera. HERA and HANFA are good comparisons and that independence that is so proclaimed I really think it's more than it will be and what it was and what it is. You were talking about the fact that there's no gas on the islands, so maybe you don't have that kind of problem. Maybe it's better if you don't. Because if you see a memo that the City gas station Zagreb sent to the tenants on Kennedy Square where one valve is to be replaced, which costs 800 kuna per apartment, it might be good that you do not have gas installations on the islands because one valve 834 kuna, here is a memo. And therefore, it is exclusive, and only the right to change that valve has the City gas station Zagreb. Last year, the Slavon ship raised the price by 40%, HERA approved, an increase in the price of heating in Slavonski Brod to 40%. Fortunately, according to the list of people, Slavonski Brod, which was in 2001, 6 cities in size became 7 because it was preceded by Velika Gorica. Well, he didn't, he didn't get into that quota of those six biggest cities that would increase the price of heating. So he stayed out of it, but these 6 ended up with the Great Gore, the Slavon ship is 7. But there would be no exception to the ship's increase by 40% last year. So, there's a lot of things going on here, and you've been saying good things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17518	The esteemed representative Josip Boric answers. Let me give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17519	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, for your word. I agree, here's what you said. I set an example of the City of Rijeka because the fact is, when you have to monthly, and now we're going to start heating, that was in the 1st month, the first bills came only in the 2nd month, 3 so only 2 months, so these 1,000 kunas still kind of worked out. But now that we start with those prices in 10, 11, 12 months, that's about 3 to 4 thousand kunas more heating prices than it was in the previous years. What's going on in that town? It's just that people lock up their apartment and go to other areas, it's just not easy to live there anymore. We have gas on the islands, I said we're not connected to fixed nets, we didn't really have gas pipelines on the islands, but we have gas in the bottle as a good, good option. And that price of gas here has increased in the last year almost by 25 kuna, although the price of energy has not increased so much. And that depends on distributors, but also on the fact that the state no longer wants to help subsidize something, at least transport or something to enable that island population, which is not wrong that they cannot have a fixed network, to allow it to be supplied more cheaply with that energy. So in the summer months, we really have a shortage of such energy, when the whole system turns on, we have problems. We, as the government, tried to start with ingested oil gas, which gave some results, but when the energy price goes up, people just give up and return to what's cheaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17520	Second replica, the respected representative Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17521	Here, thank you. Well, first of all, that would lead to two things being said. First of all, the prices that form, here's an example of the river, first of all in... heat for the citizens because... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, when you have distributors like HEP then in these cases today, then the Mayor or City Council decides on what the price will be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when the mayor has his own company, his firm, whether within a utility or within a special one, she sees not only the price as such, but also the people who are employed in that part and their families who are related to the people who work. So it's not easy to say the price to be small, or we're not going to increase it, then there's a dubiosis, there's an increase in costs and, of course, what's been going on and there's bankruptcy. People no longer have employment, nor do they have energy in that part, or as heat. About that, when the mayors have to take care of it. While there is a case like HEP somewhere, then it goes to place it somewhere far away in Zagreb and it is not seen that there are thousands of people working behind the HEP as well. So this part of responsibility through HERA will be better for me. And so, on the other hand, it's a little bit harder for me and I might also say that I have a big mistrust for HERA because it hasn't worked in that part yet, but why the big mistrust? Because so far, we could have ruined everything we've done, and we've ruined it, and we haven't treated it well. Let's do something together to make this happen, to protect citizens with a good price first, and also to protect our local self-government, administration, cities and municipalities and also to protect our business... We have one common goal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the task of this law, and I think the sooner we start applying it, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17522	To the reply of the esteemed colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17523	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm going to answer this, because when I set an example of the City of Rijeka, the fact is that this is the 60% cause of the city's politics. Now I'll tell you why, we had Ina's refinery on Mlaki who spent energy on her job. When she was expelled from the city as the biggest consumer, who spent as much a month as possible and all the private ones, let's say in a few months, your firm in this case Energo entered the loss of 60 million kuna and of course that's when it takes a move that comes to the back of citizens. And it's said to be a successful policy. Whether it was thought of in time, what would happen if this INA came out of that city, which is a substitute for it, etc. And that's the question. So, and we are, in fact, visible in that city, losing users, and we can't build up every year the limits that are created within such companies as Energo in a way that everything that goes away or disappears and as a production and as a user, we go to the back of citizens and we say now you pay it and we're a successful policy. I'm afraid that's what's going to happen to us at the state level, in this way. And independence of HERA, I'm saying here I've given you an example of how independent it is, I said today that it is independent, but with incentives. So someone has to give an incentive to make an independent decision, and that decision certainly wasn't for the benefit of the Croatian economy or the economy of our neighbouring country, and that's what the government said itself, when she said at 2 months, here's the advantage of the price where you're the one that allows you to function with our company, but also that you earn and do your job. I think that's where we have to clear it up to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17524	We're continuing an individual debate. It's next, dear colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Boric, you have explained so vividly and overly your debate that I really did not think I must continue on this text that you have spoken. In 1994, in the November month, I was a certain Minister of Health of Hebrang then at the aid of our enclave in Zepce. And I was going through Zenica, and you know what I was thinking walking past those skyscrapers on Billy's field and the pores of the Bosnia River, there was a fire on those skyscrapers. Namely, all the tenants of these skyscrapers provided as our people told roru and laid coal and wood in their apartments although there was central heating in those buildings. So imagine one 20-story skyscraper with 200 apartments what that skyscraper looked like when everyone lays down, fure wood, coal, and I don't even know what not, and even the books were lying because they didn't have wood and coal in '94. So I'm afraid our very good city of Rijeka will look similar in a few years, so not only Rijeka but other cities, because citizens really won't be able to withstand what's being prepared, and let's not really say it's intensity, but market liberalisation, our market. I don't know when she brought down any price, so she won't even appreciate the energy. And it was quite clear that the first vice-president of the government had declared that even before HERA that this would be from the New Year's Eve, it would be an increase in the price of heating. What are we talking about then? Furthermore, this already mentioned Day of the Poor today, the 17th of October really fits well in this debate with the proposal of the Energy Law with the final draft of the law. And instead of governments so far, regardless of which they were from 2000 to 2004, then this famous until last year, and then this latest dish, regardless of what they say, is an ideological omen or whatever they break down in those 12 years since 2000, energy facilities, energy production facilities, whether we have hydrographic potential and each other as Mr. Popiac said and forest treasure and each other, we have resources and our own options, but there is now Mrs. Holly with whom we very well agree regardless of the ideological differences or party colors or uniforms but in this segment of energy and environmentals and environmental protection really do not have any differences. This new law as you compared HANFA and HERA, so I would like to compare this third energy package to one health reform a few years ago, which consisted only in introducing additional insurance. So it was just a financial reform of healthcare other than nothing else, everything else is the same, if not worse both in primary and secondary health care. I'm not even gonna talk about the tertiary. It's not the subject of a speech here at all. And further, I'd like to ask here, perhaps, the minister I say by 2010, who was in the government about the agreements, are they true? Were there contacts, contracts and agreements not just about the supply of electricity to Aluminium Mostar? Namely, those who were in the previous session of this Assembly well know that before the end of the term of office we passed a law not agreement, the agreement was passed, but a law that wanted to help Aluminium Sibenik TLM to deliver cheaper electricity in order to get cheaper aluminum than Mostar, so one closed circle in which everyone was benefiting because TLM was then mostly state-owned and the state benefited from it. So it wasn't that price that was lower that was kind of a price that was favourable to someone, but in the end-user, TLM Sibenik, who was a state-owned firm, actually helped Sibenik, citizens and the state of Croatia. Now, unilaterally without any defiance of the law. It was not at the Parliament here that this price agreed and passed by law was set to be abolished by the government's regulation and that the government told Mostar there was no more electricity per 41 kuna there would be 46 kuna. I know well if we are already going so far as those people who are about 16 thousand in Herzegovina say, they are not only Croats but also others and in what position are they in if that aluminum is to say lie down. These are Croats in BiH, and under the Constitution we are obliged to take care of the body in some way and of them. So I'm interested here are representatives of the government, which is an act that someone against the law that was voted upon, adopted here in the Croatian Parliament, can act by simply unilaterally increasing the price of electricity agreed with the agreement signed, by law certified here, by the parliamentary hands voted, etc.? Here's how it's going to be just an example of this memo that the tenants of the building got on Kennedy's square that say if you don't pay for the 824 kuna gas valve then you're going to cancel the number, and that cancellation you're going to pay 510 kuna. If you want to reattach the number after 3 years you will pay 2312 kuna. That's what an independent HERA is, and I don't know who everyone is, HEP, Plinara, who's there I don't know. That's how it's gonna be for us. This is just one example that is already happening today where the City Assembly etc., I will not enter these problems Bandic Assembly, I am not interested in it, but it is really inappropriate to say one valve says is 800 kuna gas stationers, and if you do not change the valve you will pay 500 kuna off, and if you want to re-connect you will pay 2312 kuna. And now look at that, gentlemen of the ministry, it's justice new, it's justice, it's HERA, HEP, Plinara, I don't know who's there anymore, but it has nothing to do with the independence of any energy or what we're discussing here today, and it's even said here that it's going to cost electricity and energy, it's going to be cheaper from the market liberalized. Let's go... when the government has a liberal so we'll polyberalize everything. Because, as we said, in words on behalf of the club, the HDSB club can, at the very least, be restrained and possibly against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17526	Thank you. A respected colleague, Zlatko Komadin, also applied for the debate, but he will not have the opportunity to discuss this item on the agenda. That's what ended the individual debate. And we have another application for the final word on behalf of the club and that of the HNS club, the respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17527	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Deputys with fellow Members, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Finally, on behalf of the HNS Club, which will clearly support this law, i.e. these laws. What to say, very serious laws and were expected today in this assembly to talk about the details embedded in these laws, to comment and discuss some new institutes introduced through this law, such as the protected buyer, the obligation to provide lower prices for people who are socially at risk, the certification of the origin of the property, the energy development strategy, etc., etc. A lot of things they'd deserve to be discussed seriously. However, the debate is, not a particular novelty, of course, gone in the other direction, touching another serious topic, which is the price of energy, which, of course, is given the current social and economic moment of this country and its citizens, is clearly a serious topic. They also talked about whether it is necessary to pass these laws now, whether it is necessary to ensure their application at a certain point by referring to the third energy package, etc. The European Union, lamentation whether or not we are obliged, is clear that we are obliged to bring our legal documents and regulations into line with the legal acquis of the European Union and, therefore, it has been extremely strange to listen to the representatives of the party who are now busing into the chest as the only sole reason for the situation in which we are, which is that we are one of those countries, or perhaps the last in this wave to become a full member of the European Union in the seventh month. Prices were talked about neglecting the fact that electricity prices wanted me to admit it or not, even if the government went into state intervention it could only correct slightly, and that it was in fact a real lever and a real mechanism that controlled the prices of the world market and that the price of both coal and oil derivatives was regulated and created a basic price away from Zagreb, unfortunately something further from the Croatian government building and resolution ministries, including this Parliament. We've had a whole series of criticisms from a political option that has accepted obligations through the negotiation process that we have to fulfill, which in the past 8 years has done nothing significant to prevent losses and to stop the figures that I'm about to say something quickly in this remaining time. In particular, in the electricity system, the losses of Croatian electricity are approximately 40% of the total amount of energy spent by Croatian citizens in households. It is 3 billion kilowatt hours and the biggest losses Croatia has in relation to countries in the environment. And up to 16% of energy is lost in the system. For 8 years, you ladies and gentlemen have had time to take action, and the greatest criticisms very symptomatically we have experienced from a minister who has done nothing and who is directly responsible for his incompetence because for 8 years, not only him, but also his predecessors from the same political option over the past 20 years, we have not had more serious investments in the electricity system. The lessons on ability we heard from the foreign minister who showed his ability at a press conference in Brussels when it came to the question of journalists how many chapters were opened to him and how close he was to his shoulders. And finally, gentlemen, a case that points to your approach to energy policy and your contribution very, very significant. The most significant move you have made in recent years as a contribution to energy policy management is most likely the case of the resident Mr. Buljubasic, who received salary on the cost of Croatian citizens, and the radio is everything but not energy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17528	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. First of all, he's a respected representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17529	Well, colleague Baranovic, this is all you've said in the last 30 seconds of your grand speech you've had a chance to say this morning while your colleagues were in the assembly. However, data released that foreign investments for the first nine months of this year are 150 million, last year 690. That's the data, but you're an agent who doesn't discuss it with the data. You're a politician who accuses people without arguments. And therefore, it's not correct. My colleague Jandrokovic was there, my colleague Popioč was there, and I don't think this is all at the end of what you said is correct and it's not fair, and now you can say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17530	This replica is matched by counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17531	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, it is not my place to take care of where Mr. Jandrokovic is, by the way, being said which is very rare in the assembly and the honourable Mr. Popioč. This morning, we were constantly exposed to manipulation, politics, hypocrisy, demagogy and everything that shouldn't be in this Assembly room. Of course, I will not return to you on a personal level of insult as you did just before me because there is something that is not about energy, but it concerns the character and level of debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17532	Second replica, respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17533	Vice President, here's a colleague of Baranovic's, you've really surprised me with such arrogance. But you didn't surprise me if I knew you were coming from the HNS and when your first vice president also performed in such an arrogant way. Insult all that has been done so far, and above all those results that were in HEP, and we'll see what the results will be in the future, but I'd say next. You speak with such arrogance as your president who before the day, two also told about wind power plants and a mixed hill in Zadar that says look at what they've done in 8 years, they haven't done anything, and look, we're opening wind power plants, we're working, and that's the project that's been working for five years, so Končar and all those people who are working on it and you're giggling on someone else's feathers and you're always talking about some big investments, investments, and basically everything stays just in words and not a trace of voice. So don't talk so arrogantly and downplay all those investments and those people who have worked in Croatia by now. As if you are bringing light to this Croatia and as if no one has ever done anything before, it is you who enlighten not only Croatia but also certain heads of some people. That's really absurd.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17534	We will now hear the answer to the replica of the respected Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17535	Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the answer will be very brief. So the only change that we can provoke in this society after the darkness in which the Croatian Democratic Community has engulfed it, Mr. Representative, is light. It's the only opposite that's possible in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17536	Here's the third line. Please don't throw it out of the bench! Here is the third line, distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17537	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I have to replicate to an esteemed colleague because I have a feeling that in the absence of arguments that very easily reach out for insulting us on this right, although I have already said several times here that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia has just called us, your prime minister called first to speak the truth if you remember right here in this House, that we are trying to tell the truth and that we will not take advantage of what it was. And there's no legal proposal here that he doesn't have an explanation for what happened. Not one! And you came up with a story that you're better than what you were. And all the time you've been giving us some lessons, calling out, even speaking in advance of certain people, and that in every man's normal life can be called pride or pride. We're all watching this Turkish show, this Suleiman, and that man who beat that Ludovic out there on that Mochavik field he's at one point when it's over, if you've seen it well, I've looked at it, I have to admit that I've looked at it, in order not to be arrogant he dug a hole in the ground and lay in it all night. And you gentlemen here, you come across all the time just like that, like it's become some kind of normal way of communicating in this House. And on the part of the executive government, we listen to the ministers, they sort of insult us like we're the executive government here, and people have chosen them or it's the other way around. So people chose us to talk, and we set up that executive power. We voted for her, we didn't vote, and it all kind of turned out to be an esteemed vice president, and you're making it easy to allow these insults, even though Article 216. The Rules of Procedure make it clear when you might need to give a warning, maybe. And mostly when it goes our way, you won't, but if we were to fight back, it would probably be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17538	I won't give you a warning, but I'll give you a warning that you've broken your time. But we will now hear the reply to the replica of the respected Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17539	Here's my dear colleague, Boric, I will not, of course, go to the tone in which he spoke to me as a colleague to fight back. I am looking at Sulejman and Sulejman to learn a lot of things, but I will not dig a hole and I will not just show my surprise to my colleagues that one serious political party in one serious process which is a historic process for the Republic takes on certain obligations and when after parliamentary elections, the citizens have given both of you and us in these elections, about the perception of one and the other and third parties when one is so elected, the democratically elected authority in the manner of responsible policies begins to meet the conditions that you have taken over and for which you have committed yourselves to negotiate in the Chapter – Energy and then afterwards come to this Assembly and condemn us for what we are doing then I must say that I am truly amazed, confused and that it may take some time for me to come through meditation like Sulejman the Great to come to see how and how to maneuver in this political field and in this room called Croatian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17540	Thank you. I now give the word to the Deputy Minister of Economy, Ms. Tamari Obradović Mazal, to hear the final presentation. ... Just a little bit, ma'am, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? ... No one's seen it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look, when you pick up the tile, make sure we've made some eye contact. But okay, but if we're wrong, here's my word. You're welcome to replicate. Be kind, Deputy. ... Here, I'm sorry I didn't see you guys, but give me a slap on the table with that tile until we register you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17541	Here's a colleague of mine. Thank you. You're like the balle football player from Wales who walked into our dressing room and apologized for not throwing the ball. Well done. Here, thank you very much for your intervention and for your honesty. Namely, a colleague of Baranovic went out like Sulejman on the Mohačko field in 1526 in order to cut both the Hungarian and Croatian forces in all order, as in this Assembly, so all those who spoke called them were lamentations. That verb was lamentated, and it says about prices instead of talking about the real thing. Well, Mr. Baranovic prices for energy, an increase in the price of heating, gas, electricity, and that's what our citizens are interested in. We're people's representatives here, which is what we've come to lamentate about. I don't know what you think we should lamentate or talk about. Well, that's what we're talking about. And you claim it will determine the market or I don't know what. You are the Government of the Republic of Croatia, chosen by this nation by a great majority, a great one. And yet there will be more choices, and we hope, these are not the last choices. That's what my colleague Baranovic should count on. So this state-run depression that you're talking about, so the regulation of prices by the state can be found and a mixed system of some kind, there's both HERA and the state, but ultimately all this is agreed. And while you're talking about your successes in the first months, let me know how much of the energy reconstruction program for the public sector's buildings has saved you energy and done your job. That's what you tell me as your success. One or two facades? How much did you do about this declared project that you came up with? Although Europe has been doing so for three years now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17542	Here is a response to this replica, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's when Suleiman is already on the wallpaper of his distinguished colleague Grubisic that I happened to find myself in the Mohajska field, then you'd be safe on the opposite side of Suleiman. And as for your remarks on my exposure to today's debate on the subject that you said through this replica of the general situation in which this society was brought, I am saddened that you do not recognize it, it is so difficult for the Croatian government to now decide that the price for 0 kuna or for the symbolic 1 kuna would not significantly help Croatian citizens in view of the situation they were brought into this morning by those who shared our packages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17544	With apologies, I now again call on Deputy Economy Minister Tamara Obradovic Mazal to give the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here at the very end of this debate let me thank you for the same. She was active, she was a mess, and of course she was in favor. We all have the premise of this debate and of our work the well-being of our citizens. So in that sense, I thank you for the debate. And I'm looking at Suleiman, and there was no electricity during Suleiman because I'm guessing that he might be a little bit different on his wonderful, like the Mohaj battle. In the name of those citizens in which it is of course an interest to survive from first to first, and we are interested to enable them to do what we haven't pointed out today, which somehow fell into the seal is what this law among other things brings to citizens, and that is for those citizens who are socially endangered category, who therefore have not materially had enough income to withstand market prices, prices formed on the market, regardless of whether they were electricity or clothing or clothing or cars. I once again draw attention to this very novel of this proposal, that is, Article 39, which addresses just the protected, or threatened customers. Those people who are threatened in a way that they do not have enough to enter the social category of endangered status, who need this form of social assistance. The people who have identified a certain degree of disability, who have special needs. People who are in poor health conditions who may be at risk of life or health due to restrictions or a halt in energy supply. So this law protects people who are weaker in property, who meet the conditions of poverty. He wonders what the government is doing for these people, what it does for people who won't be able to pay the bill for electricity? We're not going to put them in such a situation because through the identification criteria that these people are, who are people who are socially endangered, who are entering the poverty category, we're going to help to make sure that this doesn't happen at all. And you will have these criteria very quickly, which we are developing with the competent Ministry of Social Care just to prevent any impact on citizens who are weaker property. And I don't think that we may have stressed enough today, and here I am doing it now on this occasion, we haven't stressed enough that this law respects market conditions in forming electricity prices, including protecting citizens from exposure to any fluctuation, or change in price structure. I thank you, here's another one at the hearing, on both laws. We focused more on the Energy Act, less on the Energy Regulation Act. Three amendments have been submitted. If you'll excuse me, I'd pass all three. The first is PZE 167/1 on the Energy Act, the amendment is accepted. The second is the Proposal for a Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities of the PZE 181/1, the amendment is adopted and the PZE 181/2, the amendment also to the Energy Regulation Act, the amendment is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17546	Can you just give me those amendments to attach them? Thank you. On this final word we have reported three replicas. First respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy, you took a good look at a small segment of the law, which is this social aspect of these laws because unfortunately this morning when we started this debate in Croatia was 323 821 unemployed, today unfortunately when we finish this debate in Croatia 324 211 employees. And that was why the HDZ Club today discussed it in this way, to try to find every possible and impossible way to postpone the application of this law, that the government could still intervene where it could be intervened. So it wasn't our intention that the law that we were practically, while we were in power, made some kind of changes, to break it down in any way. But we were just going through our discussion to warn you of this social moment. Unfortunately, however, through the debate of counterpart Baranovic, you saw the way it was seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17548	Second replica, Honored Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I would take this opportunity once again to underline and conclude everything I said during today's debate. So this package of laws is part of the Aki and we have to adopt it at some point. However, we can adopt this package of laws until Croatia enters the European Union and no one can dispute it and Mrs Obradovic knows it very well. Furthermore, the law and the obligation we have to pass this law is not related to an increase in energy prices. And you are now trying to shift responsibility for raising energy prices on HERA and on the European Union. No one from the European Union advocates it or asks for it, it's your decision, it's your government's decision. You raise those prices and try to transfer responsibility to others. That what I say is true, is that in the 10 points mentioned by the European Union there is no need anywhere to pass these laws as conditions for Croatia's entry into the European Union. It is mentioned in the text, but you yourself have said that we are late and that this should be brought into the European Union. Yes, it is like, sometimes if you think about the interests of the Republic of Croatia and citizens then you bring some things when you are interested, not when the European Union tells you that. So you have a chance to make that decision for another 6 or 7 or 8 months. I'm sorry that the arguments I'm using some HNS MPs are using to personally deal with me, with a fellow drinker. I'm not going down to that level and the citizens are going to judge who's right here, and whoever attacks a man is going after a man just because he doesn't actually have the right arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17550	And the third and last replica, the esteemed Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17551	The esteemed deputy made it clear that one of the most important segments, which is unfortunately only being discussed today, is an increase in prices. So, the social aspect has been introduced into this law and it will be implemented because this government is implementing it as a government that is social, but a government that clearly advocates the market because Croatia has defined itself as a country that will stimulate, open, encourage. Because without the development of the energy market and market, there is no investment development, and there is no support, and there is no stimulating the entry of capital into Croatia. This is a key law that shows that this Croatian government and on the energy market are ready to take action and protect the maximum social category. This time out looking for is pure populism, we are sick of this time out and I have to repeat it again, this government is responsible and determined to solve everything they have left us in these 8 years including the extraction from the Croatian electricity industry of liquid assets without which Croatian electricity cannot work and function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17552	Thank you. That concludes the debate on these two legislative proposals. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17553	Final proposal of the Energy Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 167. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee has been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has become an integral part of the proposal. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. The result? I find that 85 votes for, 10 against and 27 abstentions have been passed by the Energy Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17772	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 169; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. I ask, does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Dear Deputy Economy Minister Tamara Obradovic Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Let me thank you at the beginning of the debate for the debate under the parliamentary committees. We propose a brief amendment to the Law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre. Since it is a really short change, I am supposed to explain it briefly, but I will also take advantage of the opportunity since the debate on energy preceded in a way that raises the question and the activities that the centre is doing. Let me take this opportunity to make one retrospective of the centre's work in these last few months. The primary point of the change and complementarity guide we are proposing is the initiative of the local self-government which has recently addressed the centre to empower the centre to take part of the responsibility and to propose, in their name and for the account, projects, the selection procedure for the PPP for the private partner, the conclusion of the contract and the supervision of the implementation of the PPP projects itself. Through the current implementation of the centre's work activities, the need has simply been seen, or the speed of the centre's reaction has been observed, there has been an initiative at the level of local self-government that what the centre is doing for the central government's authorities to allow the centre to work for those units of local self-government, of course, who want to show interest and who are empowered to do so. We therefore propose a provision that allows units of local and regional self-government to give authority to the centre in their name and account to carry out activities related to JPP projects. Speaking of projects of the JPP public private partnership, but also other segments of work, let me recapitulate what indicators are in the last few months, which is what the centre has been dealing with so far where practical problems are and what is progressing with planned dynamics. As regards energy renovation of buildings in the public sector, 26 public procurement procedures covering 38 buildings from the aspect of energy renovation of buildings in the public sector have been put in place so far. The centre has also analyzed 110 project tasks. Of these 110 project tasks, 33 are economically invaluable, 15 project tasks have to be completed and 21 project tasks are expected to be agreed by local and regional self-government units. The very fact that on the 33 projects of someone ahead of you before you even started any cycle, any investment, any investment, even if spending money on paper to make a project itself, the fact that someone in advance to 33 different points tells you that it's not worth it to you at all is no longer having its own monetary value, but it certainly has the value of that expense you haven't made, so the advice that is absolutely worth it. If we stay in the segment of the energy reconstruction of buildings in the public sector, let me add that the centre has also done 72 energy checks. 33 projects are currently under way to calculate economic viability, for 27 projects an economic failure is calculated if it continues with the project, 9 reviews have been subject to incomplete documentation, and for other projects which have proved to be profitable and which are in a state of certainty public procurement procedures have been carried out. Let me also add that the centre has announced an open public procurement procedure for 300 energy reviews of buildings and their certification. In the public private partnership segment, data on potential projects were collected from the government's April 2012 framework programme, worth 14 billion kuna. For 6 projects in August, the creation of comparatives and project proposals was agreed and 5 projects worth 740 million kuna were prepared for this basis, which are ready to be sent to the Public Private Partnership Agency. And what is also going on is the investment register that has started its work since June and since June there have been monthly reports on the realization of investments for 9 public enterprises for which the centre is being analysed. Of course, about the other activities of the centre itself as well as planned activities we can provide additional details during the discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17774	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We start with clubs. A respected representative, Damir Cain, applied for the IDS club. He's gone, the club's losing the right to discuss this agenda point. The HDZ representative club, a respected representative, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected deputy minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. About 6 months have passed since we voted in this House on the Proposal for a Law on the Centre for the Monitoring of the Business of the Energy Sector and Investment. I'm the name given the length of that center a little bit in a way worrying. Even then, the HDZ club did not support the adoption of the law, so neither will we support these amendments nor the addition of the law. There are several indirect and direct reasons why we will not support these amendments to the law. First, in July it was not so long ago this year we supported the adoption of a new Law on Public Private Partnership. At that time, we clearly asked to bring forward the public private partnership strategy as soon as possible, to say what, which are the objectives of the Public Private Partnership Agency. However, neither in this case nor in the mass of other cases we have actually received an answer when and if it will come before the Croatian Parliament at all a strategy. We believe that the existing Law on Public Private Partnership, I am going back to this present draft of the law or amendments to the law, and we believe that the Law on Public Private Partnership is an absolutely satisfying framework for what the centre should be doing, above all when we talk about investment in energy. However, I think such a new solution will further create a confusion in the forest of laws that needs to be simplified, that is, legal solutions. It also appears from this amendment and the addition that we become slowly aware of one fact, which is that the Republic of Croatia really lacks the Ministry of Energy. If not the Ministry of Energy, then at least a serious energy administration within the Ministry of Economy, which is good, we will also not solve it with these amendments and amendments to the law or replace what is missing at the strategic level. However, today, as you know, we have along with this centre of the Public Private Partnership Agency, so then we have an Investment and Competitiveness Agency, etc., etc. And we all have to ask ourselves together, no matter who's in power, who's in opposition, how long do we have to ask ourselves, with new legal solutions, new forms and new organizations, to try to adequately respond to what I all think we know are our real obstacles and real problems and the essence of our problems. I will try to list them briefly, and these are primarily insufficient investments in energy infrastructure, primarily in the system mentioned so many times today by HEP, so a system of transfer and distribution, which often represents the biggest obstacle to many investments, not energy investments but all kinds of investments in the Republic of Croatia, primarily in industry. I also stress a lack of serious international interest in independent private investment in energy production, so one that would not or would not be subsidized by the state and taxpayers by doing so or without any involvement of the state or public undertakings. No doubt we are all in this house for investment in the energy sector and regardless of all the criticisms some of which are standing, which is that these investments will really not make a significant contribution to employment, these investments on the other hand will, unfortunately, not contribute to a significant growth in industrial production because mainly when we talk about building and equipping highly sophisticated energy plants there are not many local producers, and it is not important, and that is, besides the production of electricity from renewable sources, it will not have a neutral impact on our environment. However, I think it is also clear to all of us here that we are late with some investments and that in recent decades whoever is in power we have not built as we are transport infrastructure, and energy infrastructure like that and transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for development, economy and industry and society as a whole. We believe that it is just a complete opening, and today there has been a lot of debate on this market and market regulation, so full opening for private investment in production, in this case energy and fierce competition tomorrow on the Croatian market in this production is the only way to reduce dependence on imports and whether we have energy locally or not. Furthermore, it also systematically does not remove administrative i.e. bureaucratic barriers, to call it a real dictionary, and I will repeat it all year round if it should be next year, and that is the necessity to formalize and continue the action plan to remove barriers to investment because no single law can do so. We also emphasized this on several occasions when we supported the last Investment Encouragement Act. And last but not least, today already mentioned, and this year's drop in foreign investment from last year's weak 600m euros to this year's 6 months, 150m euros, I think it speaks enough of which way we're on. Like many other laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, and this present proposal confirms that unfortunately despite the crisis that is deepening every day, despite the fact that the gross national product is falling, that industrial production is falling, that consumption is falling, and the only thing that is growing is accelerated unemployment, we continue in Croatia exclusively form, and we are not in content. We continue to deal with the consequences, not the causes of our problems, and by adopting these new amendments and additions, new, new, constantly new laws, instead of consistent and effective implementation of existing laws, we will not go far away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17776	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zlatko Komadin, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17777	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Deputy Minister. I wouldn't have had anything special to add to the opening statement that I had on behalf of the club at the Energy Act as the Deputy Minister actually had a united explanation. I think it's best that I don't take our time together. The only thing I'm going to say again is that I think it's clear to everyone that this law strengthens the position let's say independence, even if the independents are not in my deep belief, but good, but they are in every bit further away from the government and from direct political influence and I am introducing myself as the market institute in that part as the European Union in its third package and asked of us. Therefore, there is no longer a debt but actually this package is observed in a unique way, and of course we can now discuss what with investments in any sector as well as energy, why so far there was no example of LNG, it should have been, as the colleague is now talking about the decline in investment due to this government. We can talk about the fall and the causes that led to the previous governments. But it won't take us too far. I think instead of who didn't do well to finally start something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17778	Thank you. I also thank you for your rational consumption of time. The HNS club's position will be brought closer to us by distinguished representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17779	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here therefore, I will also very briefly namely here it is about amendments and additions to the Law that was passed in late March and of course there are some new moments in life and in practice that need to be further regulated, and that is what these amendments and additions are doing right now. The deputy minister explained the changes and I think it's quite logical to accept these amendments and supplements. They will fully enable and further simplify the negotiation and implementation of all projects related to the energy sector and investment, i.e. to remove administrative barriers detected through the work of the centre so far. This Government, through this law and through the activities of the Centre, shows a clear intention to ensure both the conditions and the consulting and the logistics and all those that are needed to facilitate all users and, in particular, local self-government units, that if they decide to invest in one of the proposed models, they can receive all possible assistance from the State or from the centre. This is about important facilities mostly for social purposes. So when I talk about public-private partnership and energy recovery, it restores schools, kindergartens, hospitals, social institutions, cultural institutions. So, all those institutions that are truly of exceptional importance to Croatian citizens. And just in models according to the public private partnership project and in particular energy efficiency, we talked a lot about it in the morning part of the session can be very rationally and efficiently managed by energy, make significant savings in the budgets of these institutions, as well as in the budgets of the units of local self-government but also in the budget of the state itself. I somehow predicted that this debate on these technical changes would actually turn into a debate about something else, so I also prepared a report on the work of the center. But the deputy beat me to it and told us everything about what the center was doing, so I'm not going to do it again. But I would just like to point out that I was really pleasantly surprised by the fact that projects amounting to as much as 740 million kuna have been prepared and we hope that they will soon and quickly be realized. It is in favor of the fact that this centre has quickly agreed and set out to implement the projects. I sincerely hope that more subjects will recognise the possibility and benefits of energy restoration of buildings and construction by model of public private partnership as methods of quality and efficient construction. And of course there will be some problems and of course there will be some obstacles. But we're all here together to solve them and the changes in this law go right in favor of it. The important role of the centre is certainly also that for the first time in Croatia, the system is introduced and that someone closely and precisely follows the money, how it is treated, and that everyone responsible and responsible is kept informed of it. If this were to be controlled and monitored, it would likely be possible to respond in a timely manner and stop these some of the criminal processes that have affected almost all state-owned companies during the former government. Because if there were any knowledge there would have been a reaction, it's not exactly safe, but it would probably have prevented all these huge affairs that we've been hearing about for the past few years and that just don't stop. Some may have had such a disorder, but this government will surely insist on the order and coordinated payment of related systems as the centre’s task is of paramount importance. And therefore, not only to be monitored and controlled, but also to act in a coordinated manner. In a lot of projects, exactly the systems that we have talked a lot about today, both HEP and JANAF need to be coordinated and it is necessary to connect all these sectors to ensure that their functioning and implementation of the projects are effective. It's just some of the tasks the centre performs. The role of the centre at this point is absolutely necessary for the start of investments primarily in the energy sector by state-owned companies because it is extremely important for reasons, for this reason we support the work of the centre as an amendment and addition of this Act which will enable it to work even better and more efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17780	Thank you. We will hear another club, the HDSSB club, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, therefore the new child who was born in the wings of this government, was born and to be cherished. So it's voted out, it exists, it's starting to stand on its feet so it's not the right thing to do then, and through this bill of amendments and amendments to the law, let's leave it at bay. What the assessment of the state of this pre-legislative proposal states is that the centre has started procedures and, among other things, competitions with the aim of implementing prepared projects, especially in part of improving the energy efficiency of buildings. That's number one. And just before, we had a replica and a debate about how far away we were in that segment, and obviously we weren't far away. And maybe it's the beginning of the work center. Maybe it shouldn't be too critical to evaluate in that segment, so the duties or the work of this center, not to say a brief centre in improving the energy efficiency of buildings. Second. The activities listed, which is the activity of the centre, are, therefore, the implementation of all investments for which the interest is particularly related to public-private partnerships projects. And just earlier here from fellow Milosevic when he elaborated his debate, we heard his speech that there is actually no particular interest, that he is not expressing himself, that there are no those who appear mainly to say direct investors or independent investors and those who would go through a public-private partnership to build energy facilities in the Republic. And in the end, how much does a public-private partnership cost? Is that a more expensive form of business to say to the client, the user of any favourable credit? When you take everything in a public-private partnership the one who wants to build and give and invests then you can see that it's actually what counterpart Lesar said just now outside like Mexican highways. So it costs a lot more to any state, whether a unit of local or regional self-government than one favourable loan. And yet we can't get a positive loan. So favourable that it would be useful to build such relatively large objects, capital objects that serve the purpose of energy production. Of course, this law in assessing the necessary means as well as all of these before clearly that there is no requirement to provide any additional funds it is already a common assessment so that it should not even speak of it. But the consequences that will arise by passing a new law. And then it is nice to list the removal of administrative barriers seen through the work of the centre so far, although the centre cannot change some of the laws that are on the way or whose legal provisions are obstacles or obstacles in a more efficient, more efficient work of the centre, and in terms of speeding up these investments and private-public partnerships. It is said that it will enable the use of centre services by a large number of users, and by the basis of the expressed interest especially from the level of units of local and regional (regional) self-government so that it may be possible to communicate with local and regional self-government precisely this centre has decided to buy expensive cars that we all already know and that we could hear in detail from the media. And about their quality, but also about the price. There are other options, here I will whisper to the Centre for the Monitoring of the Energy Sector Investments, so there are suggestions so that I should say promiscuous citizens so that people who listen to this debate and today are well-intentioned even here through text messages, recommendations, their thinking, and I think it's not bad to listen to what I think is not bad, that it's as well intentional as I think we all are today for the purpose of extracting Croatia not only from the general crisis but also the energy crisis, so it's possible to dissipate, so one of them writes if the Stimist is reading the messages, can't it, that it's possible to relieve energy. Therefore, an international tender for the mass procurement of solar systems for the heating of sanitary water for individual facilities should be opened. Citizens take over equipment via vouchers with credit responsibilities from the Croatian Post Bank, our bank or through HBOR with one or two percent interest. Croatia renounces VAT in favour of installation. That's how you do it, for example. in Slavonski Brod because the message is from Slavonski Brod can provide 67% of the total consumption of hot water for gentle heating or for the heating of individual residential facilities. Isn't that a good idea? It's my opinion, so I read it in public here in front of the MPs. So I hope that this centre will also think and think about it during its action, while offerings for a private-public partnership on building objects of energy importance for the Republic of Croatia and for units of local and regional self-government and that finally the results will be much better than those shown for the first purpose I was talking about, which are projects to improve energy efficiency of buildings where the result is so far I would say miserane. If you prove to me that it isn't, I'll be overjoyed, but unfortunately it is. And about objects that would be like energy projects, to produce energy about not talking. And even this Plomin we're talking about, the start of construction would be half a year from now, a year from now, it's just the beginning that I'm going to say yes, let alone the end and the start of the production of electricity. Anyway, since we have the center, that he's here, that he's born, so it's not right for us to interfere with his business and his growth, his path, so we wish him luck with the raised hand when this bill is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17782	Thank you very much. We have one replica on your exhibit, the esteemed representative Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17783	The Honorable representative has provided some unfounded information, it often slips away when it comes to public private partnership. It appears that a more expensive public-private partnership is than direct investment through credit when financed by local self-government, regional or state. And in fact, there's no such thing as public-private partnership. It's just an investment in a facility, a school, a health institution, etc. amounts to a circus of about 20% of the total amount of investment. Through a public-private partnership, management, construction, management and maintenance are carried out. Maintaining within 25 to 30 years costs more than 50% of the investment itself. No object that we are talking about and the public-private partnership is being implemented in Croatia will be implemented. There is no information if it cost maintenance over 25 or 30 years, respectively. And through a public-private partnership exactly, clearly, how we often like to show, knows how much it costs to maintain and thus get quality, thus getting that after 25 to 30 years the facility has all the conditions through maintenance as it should have and after obtaining a useful permit. And given that experience is based on positive experiences from European countries where a public-private partnership has been successfully implemented, it is quite clear that public-private partnerships through calculations and mathematics that will be carried out by the Energy and Investment Centre will be much more favourable and cheaper than direct construction in which it is not known, or certainly, more expensive maintenance can be said. Because after 25 to 30 years, a private partner must return the object to a state that is functional, the same or approximately the same when you download it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17784	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17785	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, well, according to the style of the HNS, by the way, I'm a little bit, not offended because they can't insult me, which is, therefore, the essence is a colleague of a private-public partnership or a public-private partnership when you don't have money, then you offer to someone who has everything and more of what would be a credit if he were eligible. That's the essence and your essence. And we may have to go, given the ignorance in Varazdin to exercise from a public-private partnership or a workshop, right, so you'll teach us how to do it. And as for the success of public-private partnership projects in Europe, then you best take an example of a university hospital in London that was built by a public-private partnership, and now stares as empty as our university in Blato near, towards Karlovac when it starts. Now, that's your success, and there are a number of other examples or railroads in London, here's what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17786	Thank you very much. That's what we ended up discussing in clubs and now we're going to an individual debate. She's the first respected representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17787	Thank you, Vice President. Well, after reading this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre, there is no impression that this law did not need to be discussed in an emergency procedure. I doubt, namely, that the adoption of this law by emergency procedure will have a beneficial effect on removing major economic disturbances, which is an argument justifying the urgent procedure for the adoption of this law. Although, I welcome the idea of forming a team to be involved in pushing energy investments. I'm afraid the centre has not shown its results in this regard with its work so far, and the question is whether it will be different in the future. The centre is designed, I remind you as a kind of consulting body whose role is to assist the state and energy companies in implementing strategic energy projects and implementing meaningful, planning, energy policy. But so far, the centre has been dead, in terms of the launch of new energy projects and we are looking again at the extraction from forgotten drawers, dusty, dozens of years old energy projects. Unfortunately, no fresh ideas, no creativity, no positive shifts that we need very much in this area. I repeat, the centre is a consultant body that opened two tenderes this summer for consulting services totalling 110 million kunas of funds that the centre extracts from energy companies such as HEP, JANAFA, PLINACRO, INA. These companies really need consultants to call for consultations services. Therefore, the question arises as to what the centre is actually serving and whether this extension of the centre's powers in the area of public-private partnership will lead to positive shifts, I hope it will. But it seems to me that the centre has been more passionately occupied by the purchase of fine vehicles, but by attracting new investments in energy. And it is not true that there are no interests in investment, because there are, not only domestic companies such as Agrokor, which are increasingly interested in the energy sector or the Adris Group which has also shown ambitions for the energy sector, but also by foreign investors. For example, why is the centre not engaged in attracting Qatarski, Qatarska company Katar Gas and in general Qatar as an investor in LNG terminal in Krk, since this would be in the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia in terms of diversification of the supply routes of gas that we currently largely obtain from the eastern market. My acquaintance works in Qatar Gas and tells me that these companies would have an interest in investing in LNG terminal in Croatia and I think the central role of the Centre should be in that particular part of finding investors and pushing for concrete implementation of projects that are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. It's my impression, so far, that the center has been wandering and that in the last few months, it hasn't been fully established, and our time is unfortunately leaking. I'm afraid the completion of the Centre Law will not help attract and push energy investments if there is no real knowledge of what is to be achieved. Without that, 10 centres will not help us, and I think that we should finally decide on what these are strategic projects, whether we should encourage a specific framework that will enable energy investment, and because of this, I am glad that we have brought it here today, we have actually discussed these two laws regarding the third European energy package, and I hope that other energy sector laws will also go to the creation of a framework that will be much more passing and more favourable for investing in this extremely important sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17788	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused three replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I said that Mirela Holly and I totally agree on a lot of things, and that turned out to be true. Namely, colleagues Holly you noticed as well as I noticed that this Business and Investment Monitoring Centre did indeed work most on these cars which are an energy miracle RH starting with heated seats so as not to freeze the driver or passenger. Furthermore, the effects of this centre are also a tender for 110 million kuna for consulting companies. So the money goes hand in hand and uses none. It's strange that Plinacro, INA, JANAF and others or someone else thinks that they don't have their own bureaus to tell their development projects and projectors who instead of this consulting company to which 110 million or more will be given that they don't have their own potentials of development, idea, strategical that they can draw themselves. They've got people, they've got experts, they've got projects. And I see that the investors and those who love a public private partnership have come to this center to save God. There's no signature anywhere, and there's no plan. About how you've noticed that you're actually using old projects like Plomin, TE Rijeka, but let's just say for sure, I don't know what's going to happen with these hands that are going to develop or not to be mentioned, for example. the same old HE project on Drava near Osijek. Even though it's a clean thing it's not an ecologically completely ok. is not compared to Plomin or any TE on fossil fuels. But he's not going to take our side here to the continental part of any kuna or rabbit. I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17790	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of that respected representative, Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Holly, I almost fully agree with your presentation. I don't agree with two things. The first is that the center is originally designed as a consultant body. That's not true. I also said when I passed the law on the establishment of a centre that this centre would grow into a supine that would carry out tasks that were not entrusted in many laws but would slowly take over the powers of a number of institutions in energy that were specifically established by law and I will discuss this later in my debate. And the other thing is I don't agree with you that he needs to be a consultant body. He doesn't need it at all. namely, in the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to thinking about the development of energy, monitoring the energy sector, when it comes to planning buildings of the energy sector, there is a series of institutions besides the Ministry of Energy at the Ministry of Economy, besides the Public Private Partnership Agency, whose jobs this centre is also slowly taking over, in addition to the Croatian Institute of the Croatian Institute of Energy and Energy, which can, in particular, take over these tasks that are partly left behind and take over from the slow centre, and in addition to the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, the Centre for the Monitoring of Energy Sectors and Investments, which, apart from all these institutions established by special laws, is slowly taking over and becoming a roof organisation and I say it manages without having the original background in laws. For example, today we have passed the Energy Act, passed it, discussed it, and not to mention in any word the center, and from that Energy Act that is now in force takes on very great powers, but I will discuss it later because here is the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17792	Thank you very much. And the last replica is that of the distinguished advocates of Natalija Martinecevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17793	So I am extremely sorry that MP Holly did not better inform herself about the work of the centre or at least listened more carefully to the deputy minister when she filed a report on the work of the centre and failed to hear from 740 million kuna but prepared and completed projects. This centre is indeed in the context of a potential effort to start investments, unlike those who have tried to make all investments and projects in Croatia that are important for the power sector stop. And you can also inform your extremely addressed colleague that the Department of Economy delegation is going to Qatar for these reasons for the following month.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17794	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17795	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that 740 million kuna investments you mention have been launched, but the question is whether these investments would have been launched and without the centre, whether these investments were already in previous plans and whether the role of the centre is in some way to push investment projects that may not have been on the agenda for 10 years. If I'm sufficiently informed about what's going on in the energy sector lately, I think we can still agree that besides these energy efficiency projects in construction, which so far may be because of a public private partnership and have not gone in the best direction, there have been no new ideas in this regard which I think is a pity. I'm not against that there's a team that's gonna push investment, but I think the work of a team like that should be something different from how that team is working now, or at least it's my impression, but it's a relatively short time, so we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17796	Thank you very much. Next up for debate is the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, ma'am, I'm with my associates. My presentation will be on the trail of what I was saying and when the Law on the establishment of the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre is passed, and I am alone and now I hold that there is no need in the Republic of Croatia in addition to a number of institutions established by specific laws to establish such a single body. At that time, when the law was passed, I doubted the role of this centre when it came to the work and business of a public private partnership. I said then that there was a Public Private Partnership Agency based on the Public Private Partnership Act. By the way, in July of this year, so a few months ago we passed the Public Private Partnership Act, we supported it at the HDZ Club precisely for the reason that this law should strengthen investment through its own agency through a public private partnership in the Republic of Croatia and that it can certainly carry out all the jobs proposed by the Public Private Partnership Act. Today, however, we have witnessed that with this Law on the Energy Business and Investment Monitoring Centre, what we did not say in this law, which we did not foresee with this law, this centre is now slowly taking over part of the business and a significant part of the business originally established by the Public Private Partnership Act of the Public Partnership Agency. Furthermore, when it was adopted in the Parliament of the Law on Direct and Effective Use of Energy in Direct Consumption, we also warned of the possibility that this centre would practically take over investments by otherwise strong companies and companies in the energy sector. In addition to the respectable teams of experts in JANAF, PLINACRO, HEP, I doubt that another body that will prepare, consider, coordinate, implement projects of investment in the entire energy sector in the Republic of Croatia is necessary. I dare say that in both HEP and PLINACRO and JANAF, it is enough professional power to be able to... implement projects without the participation of this centre and I do not think that what concerns these most important companies in the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia that are owned by the Republic of Croatia is really necessary. This law also says that we will comply with other regulations. One of these regulations is the Regulation on the use of renewable energy sources adopted by the Government in August of this year and which is based on the still applicable Energy Act. Today we pass the Energy Act, neither mention this rule nor that law mention a single word to the Energy and Investment Monitoring and Business Centre, and we give it significant powers. If that center from the aspect of the Energy Act were important, it would have been mentioned in one word somewhere in the law itself, and not once. However, that rule adopted by the Government in August and based on the existing Energy Act gives this center unsuspecting authority. It gives it the power to grant rights of service or land building rights owned by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of building a facility for the use of renewable energy sources and cogeneration carried out through the tender procedure. Second, the allocation of the right of connection to networks is achieved according to the conditions and conditions of regulatory capacity and technical and technological capabilities of the energy system established by HEP. As regards the granting of the right of service, i.e. the granting of the right of service or the right to build on land owned by the Republic of Croatia, this is only possible according to the positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia, AUDIO, which is under the Law on State Property Management and Founded. I do not understand how the Government of the Republic of Croatia can, by means of a regulation which is a sublegal act, give the powers to pass, exceed the powers which originally belong to the Agency for the Management of State Property and which are based on the Law on State Property Management. Therefore, in the replica of Mrs. Holly, I said that the way this centre drives the slalom, that through the forests of positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia, Ivica Kostelic could envy him. It is not clear to me that, with all the existing laws in the Republic of Croatia which are not mentioned by all these laws, this centre draws the powers that I tell it under any of these individual laws do not belong. The centre is also this law gives him great powers in the part relating to renewable energy sources. At the same time in the Energy Act that we discussed today these jobs are intended for the Energy Efficiency Agency and renewable energy sources. However, in order for this centre to have the powers conferred on it by the Energy Act, it has prescribed that the Agency for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Sources can be established, but it does not say anywhere that it must be possible for this centre to be able to carry out those tasks which are otherwise, it should be in the jurisdiction of the Agency in order to be able to carry them out. At the beginning of the year, the first vice-president of the government said investment tsunamis would happen in Croatia by the end of September, and in this sense he mentioned one of the projects that are commendable, which is raising the energy efficiency of public buildings in the Republic of Croatia. There were words that the project would invest around 2 billion kunas. The project has experienced an absolute fiasco. I think one hand can be counted on, count the number of buildings that have been involved in the energy efficiency raising project. But what did we get in the meantime? The existing law on the treatment of illegally built buildings was designed to make it possible for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to contribute to reducing energy consumption in the Republic of Croatia to be able to manage their own facades by means of a green development project which would allow all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to benefit from favourable conditions. That's the project, the government shut down the project. This project has left, abolished this legal provision that funds for the retention of illegally built buildings in space can be re-designed precisely to raise the energy efficiency of these buildings because these buildings are illegally built in Croatia as a rule and incomplete, are neither built on the basis of the projects but have been designed as they are and which would allow these funds to be made possible when we have already legalized them so that we can make them more energy efficient. So, on the one hand, we had this project that could, and it had the means to get credit that building owners could justify these investments over a few years, and we shut down that project. We have launched a new project to raise the energy efficiency of buildings in the public sector that has experienced an absolute fiasco. I think that in this project, raising energy efficiency of buildings, this very centre should have contributed to allow for the realisation of this project and that in Croatia, indeed, 2 billion kunas are realised in raising energy efficiency. Neither did it, and on the other hand one other project was shut down. Here's what I'm gonna end up with. I believe that in addition to many institutions in Croatia, besides companies that can carry out investment operations in the energy sector, it really was not necessary to form and organise such a centre, and I fear that despite the government's desire to carry out energy sector monitoring and investment activities, I am afraid and doubt that it can get good results by getting more than enough of its businesses to draw from the laws that should allow the implementation of individual projects, but that the Government holds that according to its findings, some of the jobs could be done and which, by law, do not belong to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17798	Thank you very much. Replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17799	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bačić, I was in my debate when I spoke on behalf of the club called this new, newborn center, the clearly newborn child center of our child, which we carried out by subjugation and someone else's instructions exactly as already said that tender for consulting companies, the transfer of 110 million from INA, JANAF, PLINACRO, etc. But as the debate moves away after the debate and a few MPs here, I would change my statement. I wouldn't call him a child, but a miracle, is it a wunder kind among all possible agencies, funds, centres, etc. in the Republic of Croatia. Because what you've brought out yourself and what it all leads to is exactly what you've put out, I don't really have any other choice but to say that it's a real, directional miracle or how you say Ivica Kostelic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17800	Your replica will be answered by a respected representative, Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17801	That fellow Grubisic, it is not just these dilemmas that follow the work of this center. Namely, this centre was passed, or the Law on the Centre was passed at the same time as the State Budget was adopted. And then we expected that in the positions of the state budget, given that this centre as we hear it is quite wasteful in its business to be set up and positions so that all parliamentary representatives and the public know how much the Republic of Croatia costs this center. We are told that the costs of this centre will be about 1 million kuna in positions of the Ministry of Economy, but we have not been able to find out until today what the expenditures are, so it would be good for the announced budget rebalancing of the Republic of Croatia to make an effort for the Ministry of Economy to open a special position where the expenditures of this centre will be shown, and then we can see what this centre has been up to and how much funds it has received. Because in the Law establishing the Centre, it says that by doing business, the centre will receive funds from other bodies that leave him certain jobs. So I'd be interested in how much the centre spent in cost terms on the state budget and how much money it made under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17802	Thank you very much. The next is the debate of the distinguished representative Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17803	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister. So in this part, I would first and foremost mention the work of the centre and part of the bill, where I would particularly point out that the centre has started competition procedures with the aim of implementing prepared projects, especially in the part of improving the energy efficiency of buildings. Furthermore, through the implementation of these activities so far, the need to improve certain legal provisions that would enable all investments of interest to be carried out at operational level, in particular the public-private partnership project, has been identified. I would also point out in particular that a provision is introduced that allows all public authorities in terms of regulations governing the area of public-private partnership to authorise the centre to carry out one or more prescribed activities on their behalf and account. Also related to the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption. In previous discussions we have also defined that indeed the Energy Act is also extremely important for the development of the Republic of Croatia, and in order for them to know and take advantage of this possibility must be present at all levels. So far, we need to be realistic about solving and defining and implementing one of these projects at the lowest level, what is at the level of municipalities and cities, is about lack of resources. First of all, it's a lack of professional resources for people who know and will and are capable of doing it. And that really such quality programs and projects that are being opened to us and that provide the possibility that such things could not be operationally done this is a commendable decision and the possibility that, indeed, with the goal that we can set ourselves up, I can also say that as mayor of the city where we have very much experience in the implementation of all the projects and especially about these public-private partnerships projects, and we certainly need professional help to do these projects and integrate the development of the municipality or city in which we are. And so I say that part would be particularly emphasized and here I call upon all fellow mayors, mayors, mayors and all other levels to make quite a use of it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17804	Thank you very much. The next is the debate of the distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17805	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy. Well, I have to admit that I'm having a hard time starting this debate after seeing my colleague Holly spit this law out in one way because in opposition we should now be telling this one about this law in three articles. So I'm going to try to get back a little bit in recent history, at 6 months or 5 I think we had the Law on Public-private Partnership so socially encouraged housing, etc. And then I warned that even though we're on the side of the HNS, it's supposed to be the best, it's going to trigger the investment tsunamis as we've heard, the investment cycle, etc. Let's go see what happened in the last few months. Although we have already warned at that time that the law has certain shortcomings, especially in the establishment of a centre we discussed in the 3rd month and that it will need to be upgraded very quickly. Here's six months we've already upgraded the role and importance of the Monitoring and Investment Centre. There is much talk about public-private partnership, but when we return to history, these two concepts have always been in conflict. Publicly with private and private with the public. Those two organised states that we remember, those first 45 years, they didn't publicly accept privately at all. Privately, it was undesirable, and in every way possible, these people, brave people who wanted to do certain activities in private, were trying to return to the public sector. After the '90s, it's turning around and we want more in private, and less should be in public. And now in one word we, I say which are also separate words publicly-private we talk about as some kind of rescue solution that will trigger everything and reverse all the trends that we currently have in the economy, and especially in the construction sector. And that's when I said that we in the register being managed neatly by the Public-private Partnership Agency have only 18 contracts and I explained that in 2006, that guidelines were adopted and that, on the basis of these guidelines, the most projects were agreed with perhaps unclear rules. Then the law tried to introduce certain improvements, so this latest law that was perfected even more improvements. But of all these projects, I then listed only some who were supposed to be in realisation in the meantime. I will mention, because these projects that this agency has kind of approved we have a home for older people in Chabra, Zagreb Airport as the only project that is in the only way in terms of public-private partnership and signed as the biggest project of this government somewhere in the beginning of 3 months. We have a project in place to build a complex of West Frogs in the City of Rijeka and build a falcon home in Osijek. All public-private partnerships contracts were introduced transparently in the register and it was not difficult to see that the best public-private partnership business was done by the City of Osijek with the construction of a bus station. By granting land and the right to build with small liabilities that do not include any financial compensation, the problem of bus and station transport has been effectively resolved. All other buildings that were being built, and here are the examples of the Varazdin County as the most successful. What we claimed then was not successful, they boasted of great, I say mouth and it was something unseen in history etc. Now, what we have today, here after a few months, recently with a newspaper list and I come across a big title: "The schools from the public-private partnership in Varazdin County will be held by banks and a bankruptcy manager." That county was hit by a meteor, I mean a meteor group that went bankrupt. What do you say now after a few months of that debate? Are we still in the same position, is the bankruptcy of the company that built almost all the public-private partnerships in that county, is it some kind of message and instruction that we want to move forward in the future? Because the facts tell me otherwise. The fact is, is the fact, it says in the paper that the Varazdin County owes more than 10 million kuna to a private partner from a public-private partnership. That the deficit in Varazdin County is large and that simply every year there is not enough money to pay for these huge obligations arising from the construction of all these facilities in a very short time. We have a similar situation in some other environments. And that's why we have to ask ourselves whether it's a public-private partnership that's the most saving solution for this country, when we see that all of them are just running away and there's no legal form that's going to force the builder into one such, one such relationship. And there are examples of these famous energy facades. If we conclude after 9 months that from the great potential and all the powerful objects, we have specifically agreed only 2 and in the public tender we have received the work of Slovenian companies, the international competition, if I have said well and I think I am, because Croatian builders are obviously not ready for this form of operation or construction, do not believe in all this system. The question is why are we really talking about all these laws in one way that might be called greatness. And the examples point to something else entirely. And if we have problems, I say in investments it's visible from the state of all segments and all indexes that fall, from consumption, from GDP growth, from the decline in the construction sector, etc. And even in 2 months, I say, my colleague Bacic said, there was an announced huge investment potential that stood somewhere between 1,830m euros by Croatian waters, HEP groups, Croatian highways, roads, HZ and 2 ministries, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Economy. Today, after carrying out the budget for 6 months when we saw the performance of all these companies that are somewhere at 30% shown in the first 6 months, it is clear that we need to conclude that there was nothing of this investment cycle and that this investment cycle could not trigger even this new competence of the Energy, Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre. Personally, I'm saying I'd like it all to happen, because obviously we'd all be better off. However, here I am trying to call on the current government, where we also hear, here are some big remarks about this same law, to see where, in what way really come out of this system, and what to suggest and that all the time we here in the Parliament are not dealing with the structure in some way with this state administration. At each session of the Parliament, i.e. Almost every day we appoint some new assistants, directors, extend powers to certain agencies, centres, we simply executed ourselves and became the only meaning of how to upgrade already what exists. And it all looks like one to me, and that's what ministers say all the time, try, we keep trying something, we try and it doesn't work. Maybe we should go on concrete things, finally have someone tell us the truth and what's really good for all these people in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17806	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused four replicas. She is the real representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17807	Dear counterpart Boris, you spoke part of the time of your public-private partnership and expressed some valid doubts that I fully agree with, but there I am far more in the clear than you are. I don't have that many questionnaires, I have more claims. A public-private partnership is one of the biggest pranks of neoliberal capitalism. Public is money, and profit is private and it's a public-private partnership. For example, the one you said, which is the Varazdin County, is saying enough that you are right and is saying enough that what I claim is arguments in Croatian practice. The public private partnership began to give up the countries that invented it. You know this well that in the West, a public private partnership is beginning to end, and look at the devil we in Croatia have thought that this is a rescue solution for private partners, and the country needs to be thrown even more on its knees. You are wondering, and does not tell you my smallness is not a public private partnership good for the Croatian state. It's bad, it's extremely bad, and especially in these conditions as prescribed. And yet another observation, you said you were a little surprised that from the right hand of our right hand came criticism, that's the voice of reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17808	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of distinguished representatives of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17809	My colleague, I will tell you about the public private partnership you often talk about, but you understand him very little. How far away from a public private partnership is data that, in recent years, it has been investing in the EU right through the model of a public private partnership. Here last year was 18 billion euros, and in the record year 2007, as much as 30 billion euros. European countries have long realised that this is a very good model in which institutions of exceptional importance can be restored and built for citizens. We have also recognized this in Varazdin County, we have raised the standard of our students and our citizens in this way, and do not constantly deceive the public that there are problems in the Varazdin County if they do not exist. Neither Varazdinska County is obliged to anyone nor with the failure of certain companies that participated in the project changed anything because they invented mechanisms. They were not invented by Cacic or HNS but were invented long ago to protect all investments and all investments according to the model of a public private partnership. So don't deceive the public it's an extremely good project that's very successful and it's the best it's shown right in Varazdin County. And we made it through when we financed it with 100% of our own resources and we're sure to now that the state will cover it with 55%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17810	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17811	So here I'm saying I'm reading from this article, I'm not in Varazdin County. He says "The schools from the public private partnership will be held by banks and a bankruptcy manager. If disputed legal actions relating to the transfer of ownership of the business share are killed in court, it will become part of the bankruptcy mass of the Meteor Group managed by the bankruptcy manager or by the committee of creditors in which the HYPO bank is represented", it is very clear. And then it is said that the Varazdin County ended with a loss last year, that the liabilities were 33.7 million kuna, almost a fifth of the 2011 income, and that the remaining 10 million kuna was due to the private partner. And now I'm supposed to say it and the prime minister told us to tell the truth. And we're telling the truth, if this isn't true, and no one's been denied, and apparently they can't deny it. All investments where commitments in 20 years are over 860 million kunas of the Varazdin County and all local self-government involved in the project are clearly counted, all primary schools, etc. It is indisputable that you have these objects, that these objects are used, that they are better than they were, that this is progress and that students, teachers, teachers are satisfied. It's just a question of why didn't all the other county run the same way in that part? Why all other local self-governments did not run for such investments but relyed on the state, on the possibilities of some ministries, grants by the European Investment Bank, CEB etc. and a little bit of all these facilities are also building and they're much better than they were but they don't have long-term obligations to 20 and more years that just get harder and harder to serve today. So we're telling the truth again, and I don't know why you're angry and these billions you throw away like this every day, not 600 million here, today Mr. Cain came out, so he listed 7, 8 projects one 200, one 300, some 500 million euros, so I think we're throwing ourselves at 100 kuna bills. 500m euros is big money, if Croatia had it it would be much easier for us, but it is not, it is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17812	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was worried that maybe I was too sharp and unobstructed because I didn't make arguments about this school of public private partnership in Varazdin, it's a familiar school, but you drove me away from all my doubts and fears that I was too sharp because this information that you have made is what the arguments are that have nothing to say and give me the right to believe that I was even mild. I do not know what time period 30m euros are invested in Europe's public private partnership, which is Mrs. Martincevic's drop in the sea. So do you know what the EU budget is and how many EU residents have it? So Greece owes 200 billion euros, and you're talking about a 30 billion-euro public private partnership, and you point out that as an example of a fantastic EU. Well, it's a drop in the sea. And how much Spain, Italy, etc. owes. That we're not talking. I'm glad you've made these arguments so that this replica of mine is just enough to express my gratitude for being clear and loud. In fact, there's something else you can almost see to say that these facilities are slightly mortgaged, you said the bank was owned. The same thing happened that the cemetery in Pozega is also mortgaged by the bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17814	The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond. No, I don't. You're giving up. Thank you very much. And the last one is the replica of the esteemed representative Marijan Skvaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17815	Thank you, Mr. Representative. In order to correct all these inaccuracies and lunches around this project... the county and specifically the public private partnership here would need a lecture from the center for at least a month, some maybe six months to maybe figure out some things out. The difference between success and success is that someone can philosophize their whole lives, and the thing is that they just need to be worth something and actually do something. ... a public private partnership just from that very failed model in Croatia, these are the famous arenas that are grateful to the HDZ model and who really absolutely have no results, have no coverage and see what happens to these arenas. I would also invite you to come to Varazdin County, to show him this article and to find a few more articles that are also written and do not show them, which speak the facts. The public private partnership of the Varazdin County something about schools. The fact is... you have to form your own special company that deals only with this public private partnership and that has nothing to do with the dubiosis that some other company in that part has and that's mostly protected. And the most important thing I'd like to mention, a project was carried out in Varazdin County that you also said about building schools, halls. We didn't build fountains, arenas, Babylonian towers in the air, we built schools, we built halls. And why, because we knew that in 2005 and beyond in Varazdin County we wouldn't get a single kuna of funds that later turned out to be. If we had waited for someone to come to us or if at least someone had responded to our projects and programs that we did today would not have built 28 schools, not all of those schools would have had one shift, they wouldn't have had school gyms and they wouldn't really be in that part of what we did with our own resources local administrations and self-government and the Varazdin County for 7 years we have a free transport program so we can really say that if something should be invested that Croatia survives they are in young and educated people. That's what we've been investing in, and we've made a good foundation. We can do so... but I really invite these strangers to the center of Varazdin County and the European Union to get acquainted with the public private partnership, they have it. Why don't you have so much doubt, so all things are done by people. If people have good intentions and good intentions, then we'll keep a good eye on it, if they're not from the beginning, then what are we talking about, but let's just do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17816	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with the presentations. Does the representative want... I'm sorry, I didn't see. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17817	Well, here's the answer to my esteemed colleague, Skvarić, that with what's written here, there's also money for budget supervision. I mean, we're not making it up, which I would be negative here today, and you're experiencing every debate I've ever had negatively when proposals come from the Ministry of Economy. Indeed, we debate well - meaning and point to some illogical issues and problems that arise in our actions. If this isn't true, then I don't know what this man is or isn't, what I know is that I don't care too much, but I feel some bitterness on your part all the time because when we say something isn't good, then you have a chance to praise it all, and all the indicators say it's different. Here is an example of the Varazdin County and the Varazdin Hall, which costs 150 million kuna in construction, in payment for 20 years almost 700 million kuna, and each year you have to allocate nearly 30 million kuna. So what wasn't easier to wait four years and make that hall so 16 years to use it for a little bit of money, not than to make the hall a public private partnership and cost four times as much as it is now. And what can I say to you now, that this is a model that needs to be built still in this country in which only the kunas are chronically missing, we have everything else. It's our biggest problem and our biggest friend, the kunas are our biggest friend, it's a fact and it's going to be even bigger. And this is not a model that obviously promises and wants to stimulate our construction operation. Because if we only have two competitions for those energy facades, the other day I see a craftsman working at my place on the island, says I've arranged three, but these ordinary ones, they're cheaper and people will and no one can force him into an energy façade because it costs. And now we say it's good for the public administration, great, so let them build, no one's against it. But the story of some 700 million kuna projects, and I said here's a project at home for older people in Chabra, recently on the city day, asking the captain what... The Agency for a Public Private Partnership has given me all the consent, since the center came, it's all stopped, no one knows who's in charge of a further step. The Austrian partner can't start building a home because no one knows after the center who needs to do what. And I'm not even going to talk about all this bus station in Rijeka that's about to become a theme for the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17818	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the final exhibition will be held by the Deputy Minister of Economy, Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the debate. We have received one technical amendment from the Legislative Committee, which we will accept, given that it is nomotechnically improving the text. Dear Mr. Boric, when I was a little girl, I was 8 years old, I climbed up on my neighbor's plum, I stole a little something and I stole from the branch, fell into the dung to the waist, came home, and my mom slapped me, and my mom loves me very much. It's out of love, and sometimes love hurts. It's just like that and we figured it out. So thanks to this regret debate, I have to find out that part of me hasn't listened to me while I've been telling you about what the center has done in the last five, six months. So the centre has been there for 6 months, in the operational sense of that word doing much shorter time and not recapitulating everything that I've mentioned in the introduction I'm just going to say, maybe one of the most valuable contributions from the center on the analytical side, on the expert side is the fact that they've stopped 33 projects as economically invaluable. Imagine someone giving you advice not to go into it, it doesn't pay off, whatever it is you turn it around, whether it was JPP, whether it was any other business model you don't get paid 33 times. If only they'd done it in five months, it's worth something. What's good and what's waiting between us and this part of the amendments to the law are projects in collaboration with local self-government units and I might return the story to the beginning. Local self-government units come to the centre to carry out competition, negotiation, project design, for example, public private partnership and in this segment, the reverse process. Local self-government units come downtown and say these powers you have for executive power extend to us as well. Why? You have some stalking practice, you have some experience, you have the capacity, you do it for us. Those mentioned 740 million kuna, so projects directed to the Public Private Partnership Agency, are the same result of some concrete work in the last five, six months so that the child mentioned by MP Grubisic should be allowed to produce concrete results. You should see, so five, six months isn't enough. But already these figures, these 110 project tasks projects, 300 energy reviews of buildings, 33 negative recommendations, 740 million kunas worth 5 projects directed to the Public Private Partnership Agency may not be much, it may not sound much but it's something. In five months, it's definitely something. That something will be seen in the budget rebalancing. So the budget is, please? You mentioned it. Excuse me, it will be seen in the budget, because when the 2012 budget was done then, so you know that it was made before the centre was made. So in the budget that will come to you on benches there will be a visible ratio of income, expenditure, or expenditure of the centre itself. And last, since it was already said to organize and visit Katara. I must stress here that CEIK is operationally and co-ordinated in the project, i.e. to coordinate the project of LNG terminals along with all other involved entities and that it is precisely on the trail of this preparation and on the trail of documentation that is ready for presentation, including in Qatar, that we will soon present it directly as an investment potential. Here's another thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17820	Thank you very much. And we still have a replica of the distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17821	Well, I've heard it all very carefully. I'm going to say that I'm happy with all these answers even though the facts that they write here in this article didn't kill, they're so obvious, even though I wish they weren't like that, but the fact that they are. However, we have now heard that we have a budget rebalance. The whole year we've been talking already at the beginning when we had a budget debate somewhere in the second month I think it's been said it's the frames, it's not going beyond that, it's Amen, it's over, we're going to end a year inside that. In this execution, we talked and warned about many items. Then the Deputy Minister told us nothing of the rebalancing, etc. Here's today the first state official who's had the courage to say there's going to be a rebalancing. There's going to be a rebalance. The fact is that it failed, that the budget failed to maintain itself as it was imagined, that it might have been ambitious for the first year of power. Possibly, but I think it's some kind of big mistake or a big problem to fix the finances that are projected in this uncertain time at the beginning of the year, which should end at the end of the year. I mean, it felt like something heavy here, like something that wasn't directed, etc. and daily we witness numerous rebalances from local self-government, regional self-government units, and there's a normal thing. In the country, however, it is becoming a big problem, although I am glad to say that you are the first official to say that there will be a rebalancing in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17822	Deputy Economy Minister Tamara Obradovic Mazal will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17823	I apologize, perhaps in the heat of the debate and referring to the presentation of the esteemed representative Bačić who asked to see the revenues and expenditures in the budget rebalancing. Here, referring to his exposure, we can attribute it to the lapus lingue, tiredness, something. So what the esteemed representative Bačić suggested to see in the budget here, let's just write it down simply to repeat what his colleague said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17824	Thank you very much. Here's with those comforting words that there won't be a budget rebalance we'll finish discussing the text of this law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17825	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 169. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Legislative Committee was accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? The result? Thank you. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 8 against and 28 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Centre for the Monitoring of Energy Sectors and Investments in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17826	Next in line are three united points. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 168. - Final bill on support for agriculture and rural development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 180. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Agriculture Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 177. So the bill of law you got into the boxes. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, of course, combines both first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received reports from the board at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dear Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17827	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I thank you for the opportunity to further present these three legislative solutions that are united, so I will try to be as efficient and expedient as possible in this part. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products – this law on the regulation of the market is most directly implemented by the Council of the EU 1234/2007. on the common organisation of the agricultural products market, which is a cover act for the regulation of the EU agricultural products market. Following this, the subject matter of this law is legal assumptions for the establishment of a system of market interventions consisting of public intervention measures, support for private storage, special intervention measures, a system of production restrictions and a system of specific aid. Furthermore, the establishment of a system of recognition of producer groups and producer organisations as a form of market integration of agricultural producers, a system of rules for the production and placing on the market of specific marketing standards for certain agricultural products, and finally a system of trade with other countries which includes measures for import and export licences, tariff quotas and export refunds. In accordance with EU legislation amendments to this proposal for legislation and amendments to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products, certain changes are made to national regulations which provide for the introduction of measures in certain sectors and as follows: provisions are implemented in the milk and milk products sector, so-called ‘the dairy sector’. The EU milk package aimed at helping the sector under crisis conditions through the introduction of specific intervention measures, the introduction of measures for the intervention between the producer and the purchaser of milk through the application of the production contract system and the provision of special rights to producer organisations to negotiate with purchasers under the conditions of purchase of milk, and sectoral organisations encourage the promotion of milk and milk products. Then, in the fruit and vegetable sector, beekeeping and wine, the so-called system is introduced. Specific assistance to be provided through the adoption of national programmes for wine, fruit and vegetables and beekeeping, which is confirmed by the EU Commission to implement specific measures and their financial framework. In addition, changes in the system of production restrictions in the milk sector introduce the obligation to pay a fee to exceed the quantity above the national milk quota during one quota year. The reporting and price monitoring system also details the competences of the market price information system in agriculture, etc. TISUP has also established a basis for carrying out administrative and field controls in the price collection of agricultural products. Finally, changes in the system of rules for production and placing on the market are being upgraded to the existing system of marketing standards for lubricating fats, comedy oil, olives and meat, poultry and hop certification. As a specific area outside the framework of that EU Regulation, but is of paramount importance for the process of joining the Republic of Croatia in the EU with this draft law, legal assumptions have been created to establish a system to combat the formation of speculant supplies of agricultural and food products. The European Commission's letter warned the Republic of Croatia of possible speculative actions by traders in order to create an excessive supply of certain agricultural and food products. In the EU accession treaty, there is a safeguard clause based on which the EU may provide for a financial compensation by the Republic of Croatia if it is established that an excessive supply of certain agricultural and food products is formed in the pre-accession period in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in order to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia, this law provides for a system of monitoring and control and a way of compensation for damages in the event that the Republic of Croatia is subject to financial compensation for the excessive supply of agricultural and food products, i.e. speculant quantities of the same products. Finally, the adoption of this law ensured full compliance with the obligations under which the Republic of Croatia must implement legislative and administrative harmonisation and also the practical implementation of measures to regulate the EU agricultural products market. I thank and propose the adoption of this bill. The second law in the package is the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act. Maybe just for a little introduction history of support in agriculture by models a couple of years back. By 2008, in the Republic of Croatia, the system of support for agriculture was modelled by production-related support. The process of adapting the direct payments system to the Republic of Croatia, started in 2009. Namely, in 2009 the end of the negotiations in Chapter 11. – Agriculture and rural development was among other things conditioned by an informal standard. It relates to the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to reform its direct payments system in agriculture and to bring it into line before the end of the negotiations as much as possible with the system applicable to the EU. The reform of the direct payment system began with the entry into force of the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development in July 2009. This law simplified the direct payment system for 2010 by reducing the number of production-related aid items from more than 200, which until then encouraged a total of 37 products. Also introduced is the form of a production unrelated payment per agricultural area. The law also prescribed a framework for the construction of a system for the identification of land particles, so-called land particles. ARCOD as well as the establishment of IACSA, i.e. an integrated administrative and control system. The next step in harmonisation was the adoption of the new Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, which was set up for 2011 and 2012. It has created assumptions for the easier transition to the EU of a single payment system by the economy which the Republic of Croatia has decided to apply from the moment of entry into the EU. It further reduces the number of items of production-related support from 37 to 9 in 2011 only for the most sensitive sectors. In doing so, I mean cow’s milk, sheep’s and goats’ milk, suckler’s cows, cattle and sheep’s cattle, dairy cows, sheep and goats and breeding herds in livestock and tobacco, sugar tail and olive oil in vegetable production. In 2012, it began with the application of the SPS model, the regional single direct payment model, which provides for the retention of only 2 additional production-related types of support for suckler cows and sheep and goats and the differentiation of the level of direct payments between pastures and other types of land use in proportion 1 to 4. For 5 sensitive sectors, the form of productive payments which are not part of the support system in the European Union has been retained, but which the Republic of Croatia will be able to apply in accordance with the results of the negotiations within 3 years of its entry into the European Union. I'm thinking about these five sensitive sectors that... cows, fertilized sows, sugar tails, tobacco and olive oil. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The process of full coordination of direct payments systems with those in the European Union ends with the proposal of this Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act, which regulates the support system for 2013 and from the time of accession of 01.07.2013. It is fully in line with the EU acquis and has incorporated the results of Croatia's accession negotiations on the area of direct payments in agriculture. This law also provides support for rural development measures that will be fully paid from the state budget in 2013, and since 2014, the Republic of Croatia has been involved in the European system of support for rural development measures. By passing this law, we are actually in a position to recognise its exceptional economic and political importance since this will allow the use of significant European Agricultural, Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in significant amounts. The European Agricultural Guarantee Fund or the first pillar as we speak or collectively marks 373m euros per year, an allocation of funds for direct payments with an additional 9.6m euros for direct payments for demining agricultural land with the application of a transitional 10-year period to reach a percentage of financing, direct payments from the EU source. Also, for rural development measures of the Republic of Croatia from 2014 we will have 333m euros available, i.e. the 2nd pillar for rural development. This proposal regulates the area of support for agriculture and rural development since 2013 in the system of direct payments for agricultural holdings and the level of direct payments for 2013. the year, at the level of direct payments for the production year 2012, which is in line with the amounts of support set out in the accession contract from the first year of entry into the EU. Then rural development measures from 2013 covering national rural development measures and EU pre-accession assistance from the IPA programme for the 2007-2011 programming period that we use by 2013. These rural development measures from 2014 according to EU rules for the new programming period that has been developed, means the 2014-2020 programming period. Then there is State support for agriculture and rural development outside the framework of the common agricultural policy, which is allocated from the state budget or the budget of units of local and regional self-government. And finally, this law takes inspection and administrative control of the implementation of this law. In the assessment of the necessary financial resources for the implementation of this law, we distinguish the two periods to which the law applies. The production year 2012 will be paid in 2013 with the sole source of funding for the national budget. In relation to the applicable State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development Acts, the funds necessary for the implementation of direct payments in the production year 2012 have been increased to the maximum amount established for the Republic of Croatia in the accession contract, which is 373 million euros or 2,727 million kuna for direct payments. The reason for the increase is to make it possible to make the maximum use of the funds foreseen for payment from the national reserve for sensitive sectors for the Republic of Croatia up to 20% of the total national envelope for direct payments, for the new Member States, the national reserves amounted to up to 3.5% of the total national envelope for direct payments. We're talking about the countries that entered the last circle. Payment from the national reserve in the first year of application, the EU's single direct payment system refers to payments for historical rights established in 2012 on the basis of the reference year 2011. If in 2012, the use of a national envelope at the level of the established accession negotiations by Croatian producers in sensitive sectors would not be allowed to be permanently suspended by entering the EU for the historical right at the level provided for them in the negotiation process. In view of the budgetary situation and the established limit for subsidies in the economic and fiscal policy guidelines for the period 2013-2015 and given the increase in the maximum annual value for direct payments in the draft law, it is envisaged that the appropriations for the rights, for direct payments made in the production year 2012 are paid during the period 2012 to 2014. In 2014, the inflow of funds from the first pillar will begin to reduce the amount for direct payments to be allocated in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. To clarify, in 2014 at the beginning of 2014 we will have 717 million kuna in the first pillar for direct payments, while in 2015 we can already count for production in 2014 on 839 million kunas for direct payments plus an additional 500 million kuna from the second pillar, which we can estimate as a percentage of 20% on first pillar funds. So almost €1 340 million will be available to us from EU funds to support agriculture. For the production year 2013, that is the second part to which the law applies, the ceilings for the commitment amounting to EUR 373 million or EUR 2,727 million for direct payments are foreseen. Furthermore, 167.6 million kuna for direct payments in extremely sensitive sectors, 9.6 million euros or 72 million kuna for direct payments for demining land, and 287.6 million kuna for national rural development measures. In the case of less-secured funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, provisions on proportional reduction of payments have been incorporated in the draft law, which protects the interests of the state budget. By the end of October 2012, the Republic of Croatia will show seriously its readiness to implement the EU direct payment system for access payments to 2013 through the adoption of this draft law in the Croatian Parliament. A year. Why do I mention the 22nd Lipstopada will begin a new phase... of the EU Commission's accreditation mission to determine the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to apply a fully harmonised system in exceptional payments to those worth the EU since 2013. In order for the report... of the accreditation mission to be positive, it is important that this draft law and implementing rules resulting from it be adopted and adopted in order to complete, in due time, all the tasks relating to the administrative establishment of a system for the implementation of direct payments by the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development. Otherwise, I'm sure we'll do it, but otherwise there was the possibility that the Republic of Croatia would not only be able to make use of all the funds... payments in the first year of EU accession but that this would negatively affect the EU Commission's assessment in the progress report due to the failure of all monitoring obligations. And the third draft law is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act. The proposed Agriculture Act is a roof law laying down the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, the scope and importance of agricultural activity, forms of action of the agricultural holding, institutional support for agriculture, administrative monitoring and reporting of agriculture and administrative and inspection supervision. The most important issues covered by these amendments and amendments to the law are the following, harmonising the definition of agricultural activity in accordance with the national classification activity of the NKD 2007 then harmonising the definition of the agricultural holding with the draft proposal of the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act, further establishing a legal entity for the establishment of the Croatian agrinomic chamber as an independent professional organisation of agronom, coordinating the implementation of expert supervision of integrated production in such a way that the agricultural advisory service is responsible for that implementation, further changing the R & D system in agriculture for the sake of more equal representation of various institutions in the work of the Council itself, the possibility of enrollment of only one holding within the same household in the register of agricultural producers and the establishment of a register of available activities on the OPG. The adoption of this bill will have a positive impact on the possibilities of additional OPG revenues through the launch of complementary activities on the economy itself. The Agricultural and Rural Development Support Act, which is in line with the changes that occurred during the pre-accession period or legal gain, and now important EU-related provisions are the reason for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act, which is a roof law in the area of agriculture. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law will also have a positive impact on the possibility of adopting an increase in the additional revenue of the CAP and on curbing the grey economy. In line with the above mentioned respected colleagues and colleagues, I propose that after the debate we support the adoption of this package of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17828	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not then we move on to the debate and the first one will be on behalf of the club of representatives, we have three speakers and will share the time first is Mr. Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17829	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. And since there's three of us I'll try to be as short as possible. So right away I want to point out that the SDP club will support the bill, I am talking about the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act. It will support it for reasons not only because this law falls within the scope of that legal framework that we must comply with EU legislation, we will support it for the reason that, by adopting this law, end-users come to the possibility of using eu funds, but we will support it for the reason that this bill improves the system of direct payments and, above all, in the section of control and transparency of the allocation of funds. The transparency and control of incentives as provided for in this proposal for a law shall be ensured by an integrated administrative control system which makes up a computerised database containing data on each user who submits a request for direct payment to his holding and the procedures necessary for the proper implementation of the direct payments referred to in Article 6 of this Act. What seemed to me to be the best imagined concept of surveillance is the field surveillance provided for in Article 12. The first and most obvious advantage of surveillance on the ground is the possibility that the paying agency will gain direct insight into the situation of a particular agricultural holding. In the event of a direct payment application, it is always possible to identify certain data manipulations which reflect the real situation which cannot be identified only by the basis of the written report and the administrative control provided for in Article 11. Furthermore, paragraph 2 of Article 12 provides for the possibility that the field control tasks are carried out by other legal entities and thus outsourcing, thus ensuring more effective and quality of the operation, because when the Agency itself had to carry out all the controls with a possible increase in the number of time-supervised economies, there could be, for example, some quicker reviews, but in this way, when a certain legal person is engaged to carry out that supervision, which is stimulated by the compensation, I am convinced that it will be made more complete and quality. It is known to all of us that this bill is not the beginning of the active inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the EU's common agricultural policy processes from 2007 to 2013. However, this inclusion has so far gone from almost nothing towards the dispute. Therefore, it would specifically refer to certain parts of the bill which seem to have room for improvement, such as Article 14 which puts the paying agency in the position of the first instance appeal authority or for the adoption and processing of the objection to the decision on the exercise of the right to direct payments as well as rural development measures, after which a decision shall be made to the user through the agronet system, which actually prejudges computer literacy and related equipment by the users. So since these measures concern rural areas, it is assumed that the end-users in rural areas do not have any... or even knowledge of information that they can be agrenet users. In accordance with the need for a transparent allocation of incentives, it would be good to state in Article 16(2) that payments will be made on the user's gyro budget since this paragraph does not make it very visible. Equally taught by examples of countries with developed agriculture, it is necessary to specify the time of payment as much as possible for users to use them for the purpose of bank guarantees, i.e. the repayment of loans. It would therefore be good to determine in which percentage and until when the funds will be paid to the users, since the existing formulation is somewhat undefined. I would especially point out the issue of incentives for processed agricultural land because we know that they are being processed in many units of local self-government that have not solved the ownership books, that is, this catastre such land cannot be entered into the archod, and we know that they are being processed and this is a matter that needs to be resolved as soon as possible because it is one of the main limiting factors and so far it has been in the application of the current IPARD programme, and it is not in the power of end-users but of the judiciary. The next segment, and it's contained in the bill of this law, I would especially like to highlight it is a total of... rural areas. Namely, on the basis of criteria that bind to the population density, the territory of Croatia, means from the total space of Croatia 91.6% is rural space. In these 91.6% of rural areas, there are barely 47.6% of the population living with the 1991 census data, and I am unfortunately convinced that, based on this new census, this percentage is even smaller. However, the very space of the European Union is a majority rural space. In fact, more than 90% of the territory of the 27 Member States and 56% of the population makes up the rural space of the European Union, and that is precisely the reason for strengthening rural development policy within the European Union itself. In the 50 years of the implementation of the common agricultural policy, the development of rural areas has traditionally relied on agricultural production as the main holder of economic development. However, following the essential changes made in 2003, the common agricultural policy has shifted since the support policy of agriculture and agricultural production towards increasing product quality, market challenges, the use of new development opportunities and the preservation of the environment. This shift is also followed by significant changes in rural development policy aimed at three main objectives between 2007 and 2013: increasing the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry, improving the state of the environment and landscapes and improving the quality of life in rural areas and supporting the diversification of the rural economy. All three objectives are also included in the Rural Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia from 2008 to 2013. However, unless the strategy follows a quality action plan, unless the strategy has concrete measures and, above all, concrete programmes and projects, the strategy is a dead letter on paper as unfortunately most rural areas in Croatia are dead. Therefore, it is necessary for the Republic of Croatia to prepare for the implementation of programme leaders, namely measures 202 which are not yet accredited by the European Commission as well as measures 201 or agri-environmental measures. It is necessary for the Republic of Croatia to adopt and implement the guidelines of the European Commission for the implementation of cohesion policy at sub-regional levels which the local action groups consider to be the holders of the overall development of local areas based on the realisation of their local development strategies, through multi-original funding, i.e. financing the realisation of development projects and all the structural funds of the European Union. It is necessary for the Ministry to take concrete steps on these exceptional development options that allow for a new level of policy from 2014 to 2020 and it is extremely important to carry out activities on the coordination of the visibility of LAGs, hence local action groups towards other competent authorities and agencies in the Republic of Croatia as multi-sector organisations for the development of the rural area of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to point out nextly that we must prepare and raise capacities both national and local, for EU procedures in order to make as much use of the allocations as possible, rather than overlapping the measures financed by the EU with the measures financed by the loans owed by the Croatian State. The money at our disposal will not be used in this way, we will be in charge of the complexity of the procedure, for the unpreparedness and inability of end-users and for their implementation, and in particular regarding the financing of public infrastructure. Finally, I would like to point out once again that this bill is good, gives a high-quality basis for applying the guidelines of the common agricultural policy, but in order for this really good bill to be of concrete assistance to end-users, there is still a need to prepare a whole set of regulations for its implementation, to speed up all these procedures, and only to implement programming as transparently as possible in order to be a country contributing to the common values of the European Union and to be an example of the countries of the region preparing for membership. And this law will make Croatia more competitive on the European market and on the world markets, when it is adopted, and it will certainly launch the overall development of rural areas and improve agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17830	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Marija Vukbratovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17831	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Agriculture Act, I will say something about it as a key document that regulates relations in agricultural production is the most important law in the area, but it has a much wider meaning for many reasons. I'll just list some. The production of sufficient quantities of quality food for the needs of the population must be a priority for all those responsible in the country. In Croatia, a large number of people still live on agriculture or are otherwise related to the village, so the fate of these people is our responsibility. Rural environments die and disappear, and with them are the customs and habits that make up an essential part of the ethnic identity of the end. As a result, we need to do everything in our power to maintain the value of rural environments. And a fourth, not less important conservation of nature and the environment, and all natural resources is the most important task of this generation because that creates the future of the next generations. The agricultural law regulates these very most important issues. Therefore, it regulates the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, defines agricultural activity as well as the forms of activity of the economy, as well as administrative monitoring, and administrative and inspection supervision. On the other hand, agricultural production is very dynamic and alive, and in order to be a competitive and secure source of income laws that define and monitor it must be consistent with these changes. This is particularly important in economic and agro climate-threatening and insecure times. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture is regulated and clearly defined by some professional and administrative issues. One of the professional issues is the implementation of expert supervision of integrated production and labelling of products from integrated production. In the opinion of a large number of scientists and experts in the agronomic profession, integrated production is our future. It is sustainable and implies reduced energy consumption with balanced application of agro technical measures and minimal use of agro chemicals, all in order to protect human and animal health, as well as to preserve nature and the environment. The conventional production should be gradually replaced, and will always be more significant than ecological. I can tell from my own experience by conducting numerous experiments from the area... that the economic best results, means that the highest profit is obtained by growing plants through this system of production, and the products are not lagging much behind in quality for those from organic production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in order to obtain a product from integrated production which, under the proposal of this law, can be marked with the necessary character and words, and ultimately to be sold more expensively, you must know a lot about agricultural production of this integrated product or have permanent expertise at your disposal. In this system of production, knowledge is invested instead of material resources. In addition, continuous expert supervision should be conducted over such production. The proposal for this law clearly defines who is authorised and who is responsible for conducting expert supervision of it. The second question is the authorisation of agronomics to carry out private advisory services. The role of advisory services in Europe is great. It is primarily due to the need for continued monitoring of current trends and technological changes, new knowledge and their application both in conventional integrated and even more organic production. The role of advisory services in Croatia has an even greater importance, above all, because of the low educational structure of farmers. The current situation is that only one-and-a-half percent of highly educated people are in the agriculture population, and most of them do not even have a high school or at least not a suitable profile. It will be many years before we reach the standards of agricultural powers that we aim for the Netherlands or Israel in which agricultural production cannot be dealt with by people without finishing high school, and very often they are highly educated. About 260 workers are currently employed in the agricultural advisory service. That number's certainly too small. Some estimate that this is twice the necessary number given the needs for their expertise and experience and given the tasks they have and will have. For the same reason, we should encourage the establishment of private advisory services. The old law also foresees their existence, but the paper in this one sets out the need to valorise the expertise necessary to carry out this work and determines the institutions that will carry out the valorisation. The agricultural research council system. In agriculture, as well as all other branches of the economy, only new knowledge and new technologies can draw us out of market incompetence. Therefore, our goal must be to pay greater attention to research that will have a rapid and effective application in practice. The Ministry of Agriculture should be an active participant in these aspirations and it has indeed been working for a number of years through the Agriculture Research Council. These tenders have produced a number of good projects and, by including representatives and other relevant institutions in the area of agriculture in the work of the council, I believe that the projects will be even more quality and more applicable in direct production. The law regulates certain administrative issues, for example, a variety of alignments with both national classification activities and the General Administrative Procedure Act, but it also regulates the need to keep a record of complementary activities that is a prerequisite for the launch of such activities on the OPGs, which is easier and faster or legal reorientation or the launch of some new complementar activity can be of great importance in agro-climatic or economic crisis years. In all the positive effects the new law will have or may have on the agricultural production of the SDP club will support its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17832	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club as the third speaker, right? You're giving up, so you'll be single. Thank you very much. We have two replicas on these exhibits. She is the first one to be respected representative of Peter Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, his esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'm not in a bad mood or in a bad desire, but I'm still forced to replicate Mr. Matjan to his conclusion that the accession process went slowly to almost nothing. It kind of offends all those involved in this process. This was one of the most demanding processes in the overall negotiations. Agriculture is something that was most exposed in these negotiations from the common agricultural policy and other chapters for which it was responsible and ultimately concluded negotiations are if I am not mistaken in Chapter 11, 19.04.2011, which means that the process is over. Of course the negotiations are over and there are certain obligations left. And these two laws that we are discussing today are also part of the obligations and they are part of the monitoring tables for the Republic of Croatia for this chapter. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17834	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17835	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have no bad intentions either, but as someone involved in the network leader, the programme leader can only state the facts, and that is to say that the ministry has failed to agree on a quality rule that the European Commission would accept on three occasions. So that's a particular problem for us who work in the lies that we're engaged in there is a big problem. Therefore, measure 201, measure 202, which is not credited and cannot be called. So it's the same fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17836	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17837	Thank you very much. Replica refers to the speech of a colleague in the Croatian Parliament. In fact, she spoke about the agricultural and advisory service and you know well that in the previous meeting of the Assembly, the majority of the parliament, then the position, voted to include the agricultural and advisory services, so it becomes a whole part of the agricultural chamber, right, with everything else, the Office of the Ground and everything else. But in your debate, I didn’t actually notice all the problems or anything concrete to solve these problems or this new legislative proposal. Quite in general, therefore, not to say in a triumphal tone without actually real and real background, without looking at the situation today in agriculture, without seeing the situation of relations between Croatia's entry into the EU and the situation in our agriculture, which is year by year, we have a constant increase in imports and a steady decline in production. Here's the production of milk, then the production of pig-carriers, then the production of pigs in all fields. We have a series of farms closing down. I would also like to hear from you as those who are currently ruling, how in this speech and in these laws it will be, therefore, concrete measures to which it will be settled. And that the peasant is educated to improve his knowledge, etc. This will not help us much to overcome problems in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17838	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mrs. Marija Vukbratovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17839	My dear colleague Grubisic, I had no idea that I was speaking triumphantly, I actually intended to dissipate or present this law that I was talking about. So you're telling me that I haven't talked and given solutions how and how to get out of this crisis. So I'm not talking about the agricultural production strategy, I'm talking about a few articles of the bill that's changing compared to the old one. On the other hand, ours, I agree with you that our agricultural production is in catastrophic condition. If we were really importing everything that's imported, I guess we could. I was actually talking about the budget on that particular subject. But you can't blame me now, can you, and I feel this as an attack on me as a person, which is why we haven't gotten Croatia out of such a crisis in the past few months, right? It's been growing for years, and unfortunately it's going to take years to change that. You know for a fact that agricultural production can't give a vegetarian year improvements and solutions, but it'll be years and years before we bring that agriculture back to the stage so we can be proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17840	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives will speak Vladimir Bilek, a respected representative and respected representative of Ivica Mandic. First, the honourable representative of Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17841	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with expert associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since time has moved on, and since the parent board has unanimously adopted the proposed laws, I will try to be somewhat shorter here. I am pleased that today we can discuss two very important things in today's Croatian Parliament. Electricity stability, independence and agriculture. For me and both of them are vital to the Republic of Croatia and it is important in the right way to regulate that both in energy and in agricultural products we do not have to depend on imports. I can only conclude that the Republic of Croatia currently imports over 45% of agricultural products, which we as a agricultural country that has the possibility of different agricultural productions from Pannonian Croatia, Brdska hrvatska to Mediterranean Croatia and that it can have a range of products that should not be so attached to imports. I am also pleased that as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, the representatives of the agricultural chamber were present on our home committee in the adoption of a proposal for a certain regulation on these three proposed laws as well as the Croatian Agricultural Association. I can say that we have worked very well on the board and that we have contributed that these proposed laws have real functional and value, as well as application. I don't think these 3 laws will solve the situation in agricultural production and the situation in agriculture will be much better today, but I am sure that there will be much more work and much more security in agricultural production. I would take this opportunity to emphasise the importance of the agricultural product market and the importance of agricultural products. We had this, we witnessed a few days ago on the work carried out by the inspection of the Republic of Croatia at the border crossing towards one of the neighbouring countries with which we bordered, where agricultural products were intended for the Croatian market. And you saw what a lush and sensible way the Croatian public reacted. I'm here to say with full, complete law and I'm just not satisfied with why importers or persons are hiding in traffic with such non-quality products that are supposed to be on our market. It is also important here that these 3 laws are related to Chapter 23, which is the judiciary, fundamental rights, meaning in one of the most difficult negotiations after agriculture, the chapters that we negotiated with the EU. And these laws will certainly help to ensure that those EU monitoring reports are certainly accepted. The bill creates a link to the regulation that is part of the EU's legal gain, and these legislative proposals are harmonised by the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. These laws prescribe ways and measures to regulate the market in certain sectors of agricultural products, conditions for the activation of certain market regulation measures, users in the implementation of measures, their control, and administrative and inspection controls. This law contains provisions in line with EU acts, the Council Regulation of the European Community Regulation of 12/34 of 2007 and the law relating to the regulation of the market in agricultural products NN 149/09. A year. The law governing the agricultural products market provides for measures to regulate the internal market in the agricultural products sectors, now that I do not list a range of agricultural products from rice to tobacco, and potatoes. I can only say that this envisaged law on the market in agricultural products in Article 2 defines: "The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for regulating the markets in agricultural products, and now there are also certain institutions of the system that are important for monitoring paying agencies, market users records, price information centres, users of measures to improve the market, marketing years, etc. etc.". What is important in this proposed law, that in market interventions under the current Laws on the Market in Agricultural Products, it was not possible for the Ministry to intervene in certain sectors in relation to dairy production, these laws regulate that it can also be intervened in this way. In addition, there is also talk about the rules for the production and placing on the market of products, trade with other countries, import and export licences, special measures relating to milk, dairy products, sugar, wine and hops. Also, in Article 13b, we have certain measures to say repressive measures by the EU if the manufacturer in the Republic of Croatia produces more milk than agreed quotas. That is how it is, if it is broken down by 100kg of milk, the fines are 27.83 euros, which are paid into the state budget. They are also here, here it is important that the standards of the production of agricultural products by Council Regulation 12/34 are detailedly regulated and discussed by the regulation of the market. With these laws, Croatia fully meets EU measures on common policy. Also, this envisaged law also regulates inspection, production and placing on the market of products in one appropriate and visible way. Also, in this law, it is also envisaged that agricultural products cannot be used for speculative purposes. Thus, on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU from 01/07, it will know exactly which supplies are sufficient for market needs, and those if they are found to be speculative that time, the Republic of Croatia would also face certain financial sanctions. The Agriculture Act here clearly speaks of the definition of agricultural production, about the authorisation of such as the newspaper that, instead of the National Council here, it is first mentioned in the Ministry of Agriculture in the Croatian Agricultural Chamber which is an independent professional body and which will have opportunities and education and training of agronomics in terms of an independent advisory service that would be past the advisory service that is at the level of Croatian implementation, professional supervision, integrated production is also very important for the Council for Research in Agriculture, which is tasked with improving and with real projects and agricultural production. This agricultural law also defines exactly the OPG and the paper is that there cannot be two OPGs in the same household. This is considered to be good news, but it is therefore possible to register a trade for the exercise of agricultural activity, a company and other legal persons. I would say that this is a good first step in fixing the situation in agricultural production, I would agree almost entirely with the presentation of my colleague Maria on skills and professional verification, because only with the expert OPG can we create a competitor of quality agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17842	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, the Honorable Representative Vladimir Bilek will speak below.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17843	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, dear fellow parliamentary representatives. I will say something here about the Law on Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, and what is important is the guidance that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation which confirms its compliance with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe which are in support of the materials themselves. This law regulates the conditions and procedure for the allocation of direct payments in agricultural holdings and their height from 2013 to 2013 of the amount of direct payments for the production year 2012 in order to comply with the amounts of support set out in the rural development measures negotiations from 2013 covering national rural development measures and pre-accession EU aid to agriculture and rural development, which will apply until the end of 2013 and rural development measures until 2014 in accordance with EU rules for the new programming period from 2014 to 2020. State aid to agriculture and rural development or rules for granting support outside the framework of the common agricultural policy, which is allocated from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia or from the local budget of the units of local self-government and regional self-government units, as well as inspection and administrative oversight of law enforcement. The adoption of this law in the Republic of Croatia will allow the use of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Rural Development Fund and the application of the direct payments system in agriculture in accordance with European legislation. The proposed provisions prescribe definitions within the meaning of this law, harmonize the definitions of users of direct payments and the agricultural holding with EU definitions, prescribe which conditions of multiple compliance should be met by users of direct payments, and the conditions, deadlines and method of reduction of the right to non-compliance will be prescribed by the Minister himself. It is regulated that all beneficiaries who exercise the right to direct payments may be included in the system of consulting farmers with regard to the fulfilment of the conditions of multiple compliance, components of the integrated system for the administration of direct payments are prescribed, cases of multiple force or exceptional circumstances are prescribed to be taken into account in the processing of requests for direct payments, administrative control and control on the ground is prescribed, reductions and exclusions from the payment of direct payments. In addition, the method of calculating the right to pay direct payments per user in one production year is regulated and the order itself is indicated by the adjustment of that amount. It lays down the conditions, the way, the deadlines for payment of direct payments to the user for each and every production year respectively, lays down minimum requirements for the receipt of direct payments which are shown in the size of the eligible area and the amount of direct payments requested. The application of direct payments and envelopes for the common agricultural policy of direct payments and envelopes for payments in extremely sensitive sectors has been arranged. The envelopes are above all the upper limit for creating commitments to the national budget of the Republic of Croatia during one production year for that type of direct payment. The envelope for the common agricultural policy of direct payments shall be provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia and the EU budget from 2013 as long as the funds for the financing of direct payments in extremely sensitive sectors are provided exclusively in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. It is also prescribed that payments of direct payments to users are proportionally reduced in view of the resources available in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The allocation of payment entitlements from the national reserve, which is part of the envelope for the common agricultural policy and direct payments, is arranged up to 20% for the benefit of the special situation in order to switch to a single payment. First of all, there are users in the dairy sector, cattle, sheep and goats, tobacco and new users who have started to carry out agricultural activities, users in a special situation, this means for users who ended investments in the dairy, cattle, sheep and goats sector in 2012 or those in areas where restructuring programmes or development programmes are implemented. The allocation of rights from the national reserve for demining land as a specific type of payment entitlements made possible by the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the outcome of the negotiations in Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development. The arrangements and conditions for the award of production-related payments covering annual premiums for suckler cows and goat and sheep premiums are laid down. Rural development measures in 2013, how they are implemented and financed. These include measures under the IPARD Rural Development Programme, support for insurance against possible damage to agricultural production, support for the conservation of original and protected breeds of domestic animals. Here I would just like to remind you that in Croatia the only original and protected breed that has not received any support for cultivation... but in some ways we have partially corrected this in the national beekeeping programme and we will see further under which segments we will put it. The administrative infrastructure necessary for the implementation of rural development measures to be financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in the period from 2014. Payments under State aid paid exclusively from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia are defined and are categorised within the group of existing state support and new state support. The Republic of Croatia shall, in accordance with the Accession Treaty, have the possibility to maintain the payment of existing State support within a transitional period of three years following accession if they are notified to the European Commission within 4 months of the date of accession. And what is arranged is the administrative inspection of the law enforcement of the law, the duties and powers of the agricultural inspector in the exercise of inspection oversight. The Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union has established an annual location for direct payments of EUR 373 million, which is roughly €2.5 billion from the national budget for 2013 because the difference of up to €373 million generated here will be fully paid from the 2012 budget through milk support produced in the first 5 months of 2012. We must also commend the ministry here that although it is defined by the law that the support is paid from 1 December to 31 June of the following year, the ministry has used the possibility of Article 16(3), which says that exceptional payments can be made before the deadline set out in paragraph 2 of this article, and that, according to the approval of the European Commission, it is possible to pay the milk directly from 2012 in 2012 and not wait for 2013, because we know what our current problem is in the dairy sector, not only dairy but, above all, dairy, livestock, and if certain measures are not taken that I believe the ministry will do everything in their capabilities, we will have major problems with our livestock fund. The deadline for the adoption of a legislative framework for direct payments confirmed by the European Commission is acceptable in October 2012. That is why it is justified that this law is followed by an urgent procedure, and I hope that the legislators will adopt the amendments we discussed on the Committee on Agriculture and I must say that for all these reasons, the HNS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17844	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first is the replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17845	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Mandić, it is true that in these to say a little late hours and at the time of fatigue of our material, and since there is mostly no TV transmission on such an important topic as this agricultural topic is a bit sad that they are not involved or at least listen to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia about what this is about. Why do I say that? You know, as you yourself have mentioned, that a certain amount of meat, milk and other products that have been imported into the Republic of Croatia have been stopped at the border with BiH, neither the name of the importer nor the name of the manufacturer has been published. But when it comes to the Nova Gradiška Klarum, it immediately took off to publish all those trading houses that deal with the Nova Gradiška Klarum so that Klarum would fail in Nova Gradišca because it is now clear that I do not say embarrassed and foretold as a producer who is insolent and poisoning the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It was automatically forgotten about all the meat, chicken, milk from BiH. Furthermore, it is strange not to rush this government as well as the former one with the Regulation on the quality of meat according to European Union standards. You know there's a period of time there, the validity of meat for six months, fresh meat. We still have it for a year, and here we are almost, and we will enter the European Union they say. Therefore, those importers who import $2 billion of food and do not drop it, it remains a permanent 2 billion and increase that food imports, so they can still import cheaply, and also goods from the European Union, which have expired, e.g. from Bulgaria, Romania and some other countries and that we consume it here in Croatia. It is not good for the European Union, for the citizens of the European Union, for Croatia. Very interesting. About who these agricultural laws are, so to speak, is now in the crowd being protected, who they're comfortable with, which is with agricultural land that's going to be leased for 50 years, maybe with another replica because I'm running out of time, but I know who's being favored.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17846	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17847	Mr. President, dear colleague, I thank you for your replica. As far as the agenda is concerned, and when certain points come to the agenda, we as representatives cannot influence it. Whether this topic is of interest to the public in me thinks it should be of interest and that it is a very important production in the Republic of Croatia and that it would certainly foster interest. As for the work carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture's inspection, I believe that she did her job well and was good at the service of the citizens and that she noticed and stopped shipments that were not correct for placing on the Croatian market. What I'm not satisfied with is that we don't have the same criteria. In my view it deserves to be published both Klarum and all these importers producers and certainly in the assembly of this Croatian Parliament we will bring certain laws such as to know exactly the certificate of every product from where it is from and I think it will certainly be in favour of agricultural producers and that it will not be possible to happen that the Croatian market is the place where certain products that have expired and the time of duration and everything can be placed. These products are fortunately still usable, but according to all the European Union criteria, they are no longer for use. They're valid, but they're no longer for use.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17848	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17849	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, dear colleague Mandic here, allow me to direct a replica to you. There's no more institutes to correct an incorrect quote, so I'm going to say it through replica form. You said in your presentation, in one context you said that the ministry could not intervene on dairy products before. That is not true, because the fact that the ministry has significantly intervened in the dairy sector over the past few years. As an example, I will state that since 2009, somewhere since the sixth month, the ministry has also protected certain reviews of milk. It also protected him until 10 months 2011 when in all 2011, this protection of the price of milk was 42 June and I hold that it would be very good if it continued in 2012 because in some ways the situation would have been significantly better in the dairy sector and we would not have seen what was happening in 2012 when there was a significant decrease in the number of dairy producers and we were falling milk production. We couldn't have a respected colleague, we didn't have the instruments to protect and to work on that protection according to the principles of the European Union. But by the time we enter the European Union, we are not even obliged to implement the measures of the European Union and we can also implement certain national measures. This law is a conformity with the European Union. This is the conclusion of legislative harmonisation and we are now fully in line with the European Union's measures in this segment and we will be able to implement the same measures as the other members of the European Union, and that is what I would say from the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17850	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17851	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear fellow, when I was talking about special support for milk and dairy products in any case, I thought milk production needed in some ways. It is conscious of the Ministry and with special support and with the support in producing and stimulating dairy production because I believe that milk production is very important and is part of the stability of both the offers and the quality of the plasma and the sale of milk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17852	Thank you very much. Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17853	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me say a few sentences about these three points for a while. First of all, I would like to stress that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products and will support the Law on Monetary Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. Let me not want to repeat what Mr. Minister said in the interpretation of the law. I can kind of thank him for what he said, because from what he said, it turns out that this is a well-negotiated part of our negotiations, that it's Chapter XI. Well negotiated, if we were able to secure I would say a good framework for Croatian agriculture, which is that in the first degree we managed to secure 373 million euros, that 333 million were secured in the second pillar, that for demining land 9.6 and I will now not further list what is not the subject of these points, and this is about fishing and the rest. But that is an indicator of the good conclusion of the negotiations. It was not an easy and simple task, legislative harmonisation should be carried out since there is a common agricultural policy meaning that in the EU is a single common agricultural policy and that complete legislation relating to agriculture, food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary protection as well as a single fisheries policy is something that is part of the acquis and we have been practically exposed to almost 50% of the acquis was at the Ministry of Agriculture. The job is well done as shows the conclusion of the negotiations, but also the removal of both formal and informal criteria. One of the significant informal criteria I would say was that it may have been even harder than formal criteria was the issue of reform of support in the Republic of Croatia. A very difficult task from one support system to move on to a system of unrelated support. And of course that was done, I'd say, by stages. The first stage was in 2009 when most of the related payments turned out to be unrelated, and the rest are the only sensitive sectors. And finally, the reform, we can say, is the end of the 2010 Law reform. A very complex situation, I would say, was that within the coalition and then the government there was also a part of the different thinking, but here I was, as a resolution minister, then I stood firm at the point of view that it was something good for the Republic of Croatia and that the result would be good for the conclusion of the negotiations. And here at the cost of leaving I was willing to defend that law and thank God we brought it and it resulted in all of this finally what we got here. I would also like to say here that the Republic of Croatia has set itself apart from most of the new members of the so-called partners. The SPS regional model with part of the associated payments is a regional model with related payments for suckler cows and sheep and goats and the possibility and with a national reserve of payment rights for sensitive sectors and we have identified it as milk, tov cattle, sheep and goats and tobacco. In this way, we have succeeded, just as an example, to provide support for milk through a national reserve of cca 50 limes or 7 eurocents, which is more than twice what other milk producers in the EU have. But it is also part of historical rights because you also know when the same significant impact is being negotiated has the current level of support that a certain state has achieved and the principle is that it does not go below the level of support achieved. And this is why we managed to complete the negotiations. Today, I would say we are discussing two laws that end up part of the legislative harmonisation with the EU. I would like to emphasise that they are important because they are also in the monitoring scale for legislative harmonisation for Chapter 11. And here, I just want to give a couple I'd say well-intentioned suggestions. I said that the Advocacy Club would accept and vote for these laws, but when we talk about the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act, what I would like to warn here is the issue of inclusion in 2012. I believe this should be communicated well with the European Commission. On the Agriculture Committee, we received assurances from the assistant minister that this was negotiated, but from all indications there is that it is not fully negotiated. Because it is also the fact that it is said here that the applicable law regulates direct payments from 2012 is necessary to pass a new law that will regulate direct payments from 2013. That's why it's my suggestion to check it out with the commission again and to rule out everything from the law where, for example, you know. in Article 1, point (b) is replaced by the following: Also in some of the following articles, in Article 68, where paragraph 7 states: "The rules on the implementation of direct payments and certain rural development measures for 2012 remain in force until the procedures are completed according to its provisions." And he must remain fully in force because it is not logical that something that has been submitted for support until half of the 5th month and has already been completed to change the rules now. But that's all I'm saying for a reason not to be certain, because this part of the 2011 production year is the end of a story negotiated with the European Commission. In addition, I would also like to ask, as well as the remark, that it is not good that this Act on Agricultural Support and Rural Development rejects an article that speaks of the inability to implement aid. It was in the past law because the support in agriculture is something that is regulated and given and known for what reasons. And that is why we stand at the point that it is not good that this article has been thrown out and the performance can be worked on other incomes as well as on any agricultural craft or agricultural enterprise but not on the means of incentives. And let me ask you a few questions. I have received information from certain farmers who are telling me that they have not yet received incentives for the 2011 production year, allegedly for the reason that they have had certain debts to the state and have been suspended and no support has been paid. I, if that's true and if that's the case, I think we're going beyond the law, that's mainly why the support is being suspended on the one hand, and on the other hand that's not being sent by the state or a motion for a breakthrough of the claim. It means the state to beat up its claims, and thus the OPG or farmers to reduce incentives and make it worth their while. This is how they are in the airspace, they are not paid support on one side, and for obligations towards a country which, for reasons of failure to pay off, are not able to pay them off, they still have interest which, if I am not mistaken now, is 14%, which is a very high level of interest. And, of course, once you get into that kind of vision and that kind of debt, with such interest, it's very difficult to come out the same, and then it'll further result in further decline in agriculture. This will result in further dissatisfaction, and ultimately this will result in a decrease in Croatian agricultural production, which will ultimately result in a decrease in production, an increase in imports will be irrefutable. Because, you know, food is provided by the sea, if it's not enough on the domestic market, if it's not enough from domestic production, then of course that food will be bought somewhere else. And so it's from prehistory I would say almost or from history, throughout history it's always been so. Let us also remember the Bible, let us remember Joseph, and Egypt and all that, meaning when it was not, or that we simplify it a little bit, and say when Egypt came to the fullness of its wealth, so that after seven rich years, it stored wheat, grain, and when seven hungry years came, when no one had wheat, when they were selling all the environment and all the neighboring countries that were still, that wheat, because you know. And so we're spinning in one I'd say a vicious circle. And that's why I think it would be very important for these decisions to be reviewed as soon as possible, to be taken out, and to be seen in the direction of settlement of obligations. I don't have the information, but by some indications I've heard from some farmers or representatives of farmers, I think that, if that's true, then it's really amazing, that it's almost about 200 million unpaid aids. If that is true, then it is a very large amount and there is then working on a few thousand agricultural holdings which will probably as well as a good part of the economy dealing with milk production will have to suspend its production and go bankrupt or bankrupt. And what, here for the end of what I've left, is a matter of compensation for the damage that has been caused as a result of the elemental disasters. We were here an hour ago, so an hour ago if I'm not mistaken, and from the Deputy Minister of Economy, he heard the findings about budget rebalancing, whether it's lapus lingvee, whether it's something else, but the fact that she mentioned budget rebalancing. Although it will go into budget rebalancing, and probably will then I think it would be logical to provide some of the funds to compensate for these damages resulting from the elemental disasters. I have to say that this is mainly for eastern Croatia, for the most agricultural counties of Vukovar-Srijemska, Osijek-Baranja, so I would say Požega-slavonska and Brod-Posaviska, Virovitski that this year is with the greatest consequences and damages of elementary disasters. I speak in plural, the elemental disasters started with very low winter temperatures that went to -28, leaving bad consequences on vineyards and orchards, then with spring frosts that largely destroyed fruit growing. The temperatures around the ship were up to -11, which means that no measures or anti-rusts or anything else could have protected at such temperatures and what part of our farmers have these measures of disarming and similar to those of spring colds, but when these temperatures come in -11, unfortunately, there are no measures to prevent it. And then we get heat shocks that are already at 6 months before blooming or blooming corn temperatures up to 40 degrees. That's what the drought is for, and then heat strikes again, and then heat strikes again, and the situation in agriculture is catastrophic. Real agricultural producers who produced between 10 and 12 tonnes of dry grain per hectare this year at the premises of these two, mainly these two counties range between 2 to 3 tonnes. Then you can figure out the level of damage yourself. And to say it's not an unusual situation. And so far, there have been both elemental disasters and damage, and the government has been heading towards finding some opportunities. In 2003, the coalition government of President Ivica Racan, when we also had an elementary drought of 400 million. In 2007, the government secured 480 million in compensation for drought damage. In 2010, we had damage if you remember mainly in Brod-Posavia and Osijek-Baranja and Baranja and around Djakov the great flood damage. At that time, 280 million kuna was secured, and finally last year, 30 million more were added to the budget for the elemental disasters. And therefore here I must finally say that it is one of the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture that it will organise a thematic debate with representatives of Mr. Minister or representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture to explore ways and opportunities to help farmers. If there are no opportunities here with all the things they've been talking about and what they're talking about, and the distinguished representatives, the situation in agriculture is really going to be catastrophic. And so here I am in the best faith, and I would say that I would like to appeal mainly to Mr. Minister because he is the one who has to run and in some way that wheel to find and secure compensation funds, so as to make sure that he, like the one standing in front of the farmer, is also the one who is going to ask for some financial means to compensate from these elemental disasters because the fact after all this after this year and then comes to us in 2013 with some other adjustments, and I'm afraid that agriculture could be in a very difficult situation even more difficult than it is today, and that in other segments of agriculture as it happens to us in the milk sector, that after those 6.7 years of intensive work to increase milk production and to raise 150 million gallons or kg of milk production to bring us a drastic reduction, and that then the distinguished colleague colleague is talking about this particular sentence of the market in the above. If this trend continues after this unfortunately we won't be in a situation I'd say it would be very good if we came into a situation if we had to pay some criminal provisions for more milk produced, unfortunately we won't be anywhere near the production quota we've secured through the negotiations. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17854	Thank you, Your Honor. The replica of the respected representative, Marija Vukbratović, has been reported at your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17855	I agree with you that this year has been a particularly poor disaster I can say, and I would be very pleased if the ministry could come up with the possibility that the damage might at least be partially settled. In addition, the position of the Committee on Agriculture is such that we discussed it in this sense. But we have another problem that you must know a lot about. So climate change or climate change is already what the sparrows on the branches are saying. Years as dry as this one was will be an extremely wet rule, not an exception. The exception will be a normal year. So instead of putting aside some means and easing the effects of droughts or floods, we should have invested these funds in irrigation systems or worsened the channel. We already had 30, 40 years ago especially in Slavonia arranged surfaces, canals, first, second, third row, recipients, collectors, I've already forgotten what it's called, and what we've done for 20 years we haven't cleaned up, we've allowed willows, yoga and other trees half a metre in diameter, and then it happens to us that as soon as the rain comes down from Virovitica, that end I know better, until Slatina you have fields constantly underwater. So if you could find the funds, you'd be very pleased, but we have and we should have invested all these years in solving this problem, not in solving the consequences of the problem. If the drought would destroy the crop every time, then for God's sake, Israel would never have anything, it would not produce anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17856	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Petar Cobanković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17857	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, here I am going to answer you. Take a little budget from previous years, and then you'll make sure that the level of investment that you're talking about was significantly higher than this compensation per year. I don't want anything else. Well, we can meet after a few weeks, and we can comment on that. Unfortunately, I am probably not going to be too bad again and say unfortunately this year, even compared to last year, reduced irrigation funds, and in particular decreased activity to clean up a detailed channel network that was significantly higher in that period.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17858	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, 19.22, expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Thank you very much. The next club is club HSU and Zeljko Schamper. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17859	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Agriculture is an important segment of the Croatian economy and should be the basis and leverage of Croatia's economic development alongside tourism. But the results achieved by our agriculture and natural resources of the Republic of Croatia are on the rise because to date we have failed to use God’s resources, we have failed to raise the level of competitiveness and produce the necessary agricultural products. Instead of feeding half of Europe, we don't produce enough for our own purposes. We miss almost anything but maybe eggs, so billions of dollars are spent on imports of suspicious quality products. The Agriculture Act defines the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, forms of action of agricultural activity, the support of agriculture is regulated, and inspection should be carried out. The law was passed in 2009, but certain changes that are now being updated by these amendments have occurred in the laws, and are particularly in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The new Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act also aims to adapt to new changes during the pre-accession period and to adapt to European Union legislation. This law should regulate the definition of agriculture with groups of national classifications of activities, as well as the definition of agricultural holding and family holding. Agronomies will be empowered to perform private advisory services through the Croatian Agronomic Chamber which will be established because of the need to monitor all technological changes as well as through the transfer of expertise. The law regulates that members of the same household can enter only one agricultural holding in the Register of Agricultural Economics so that it may not be shared for speculative reasons. Amendments and additions are intended to provide a legal framework in order to better regulate the area of agriculture. It is very important that the Agriculture Act is in line with the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act. The rural development model so far aimed at maintaining the population in rural areas, equalising the quality of life in rural and urban areas, enabling the return of the population from towns to abandoned villages, increasing the competitiveness of agricultural production and thus creating higher income for agricultural producers. How can we today appreciate these good intentions and goals? It's all one big zero. The success and motivation of this rural development model included financial support and incentives for farmers measured by billions of practically shot in a bottomless hole. It was a difficult way and the level of support, whether support should be tied to the number of hectares of land or produced quantities. However, we are a country that has a lot of skilled people who always find for themselves the best solution, which would turn any law or model to their advantage. So we hear about the big farmers who rented or rented 100, 200 or more acres of agricultural land, and not all worked. The bill was clear, the more hectares, the more incentives. There was money for expensive tractors and combines, but there was money for good cars. So the big players robbed the creams, and the poor still remained poor. The rural development model failed the test, the targets failed. As I was a child, high school days, and the first two years of my working life in the country, I remember my life well in the country. Agricultural cooperatives were farmers of agricultural activities, creditors and buyers of agricultural and livestock products. There was no support or incentive for today's scales, but there were various taxes. There was no heavy machinery, hard to live and work, produced and sold, and what was important payment was regular. However, in the 1960s, there was a bit of an exodus going on, young boys leaving the villages, the chosen direction was mostly Zagreb, which offered young people different things like our old man used to say gentlemen's business. Why bother on a garter like we do? Today we can say they were psychics, predicting the end of life in the country. What's left of the village? In my native stables of 480 houses today, a third of the houses are empty. Few young people remain in agriculture, and those who remained regretted it. It survives on a small land, cow and 900 kuna pension, at best 1200 kuna. Almost every village lacks a home for the elderly and powerless. In 2008, the Rural Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia 2008-2013 was adopted, which defined strategic objectives such as: improving the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sectors; preserving, protecting and sustainable use of the environment, landscapes, natural and cultural heritage; improving the quality of life in rural areas and expanding the economic programme of the rural economy. We see good intentions and goals from this strategy, but the realization is lagging behind. I read somewhere as the number of acres of orac and meadows in the Republic of Croatia was halved, many hectares of unprocessed land, the Croatian village is on the air. Today we wonder if this beautiful and fertile country will fall into other people's hands, if someone else will have to implement another better strategy of our agriculture and save our Croatian villages. Perhaps these changes to existing laws and membership in the European Union will work positively to bring our agriculture up to the higher level necessary for the recovery of Croatian villages using experience. Maybe it's not too late after all. The accession of Croatia to the European Union to the enlarged European Union opens up many opportunities for farmers. More trade within the European Union, strengthening its position on the global market, up to the creation of greater stability for farmers and more original foreign investment. Interesting data from the 50th anniversary of the founding of the common agricultural policy. From 2000 to 2011 the actual income per farmer, for example, in Latvia, increased five times, in Estonia three times, Lithuania, the Czech Republic and Poland twice. These data show that Croatia's entry into the European Union and Croatian farmers can be much better than it is now. Most of the things from this policy of Croatia and during negotiations with the European Union have been implemented in its legislation, while the remaining accreditation of the paying agency and the development of a new rural development strategy for the period 2014-2020 is to be completed by May 2013 and is the basis for obtaining around 330m euros per year for rural development of the Republic of Croatia. The common agricultural policy of the European Union is constantly changing, but the common interests and objectives of sustainability of production, quality, safety and food supply certainly remain. As a result, the European Union provides targeted income support to promote growth and employment, a fair match among the members of the European Union in all situations. Finally, we hope that all these amendments and additions to our laws and by entering the European Union through the common agricultural policy will improve and increase the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, improve the quality of life and save the Croatian village. For all these reasons, the Croatian Party of Retired Party club will support the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17860	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative, Petar Cobanković, has been reported at your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17861	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I need to replicate a little bit. After your presentation, practically Croatian agriculture is almost gone. I'll say a few numbers, and you draw your own conclusions. In 2011, the coverage of exports to agricultural and food products was 67 %, almost 68 %. The total coverage in the total trade was about 51% in size. So, for some 17%, there's more coverage in the agricultural-food sector than in the other parts. When we translate that into some figures, then we come to import somewhere for 2 billion and 200 million agricultural and food products, and at the same time export because you know, because you all mention only imports. It's not fair. We need to talk about exports at the same time. Croatia exports about a billion and 400 million dollars. It's a deficit, a direct deficit of $800 million. When we know that Croatia achieves from tourism, here is God's thanks in this year, I guess it will be 7 billion euros again, and when we know for the most, I would say the most conservative method to spend 15% of the total income on food and drink in tourism, which means that through tourism, food and drink, what belongs to this part for a billion and 50 million euros. When we turn that into dollars, it's about a billion and 300, 400 million dollars. When those minus 800 plus a billion and 400, it means that it's surplus, that more in Croatia is produced than our needs are somewhere for, between $500 and $600 million. It's the truth about Croatian agriculture. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] 'Cause you know, unfortunately I have to say This year, indicators in external trade fall to about 52.3%. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17862	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honorable Representative Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17863	Your Honor, I will be very pleased when Croatia produces enough for our citizens and plus something to export. Strong billions have been beaten into agriculture, and our villages have been torn down like an atomic coup. Take a walk in our villages. It's misery and misery.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17864	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17865	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a distinguished colleague. Well you have well noticed that agriculture as an economic branch is very closely connected with demographic movements in the Republic of Croatia. You were saying that mass people and villages moved to cities in what to say about your time. Today we are witnessing that according to the population census 10 years ago, so from 2001 to 2011, it disappeared from a geographical map of 119 villages in the Republic of Croatia, 119 villages no longer exist. Two of them in Brod-Posavina County. Mr. Surevica and the Black Stream know. But here, we won't talk about names. Furthermore, you spoke of the fact that agricultural production, or these legal proposals, is in line with the European Union, so it becomes modern, etc. You see, and in the European Parliament, two documents are being discussed long ago. One is called KAP, and the other is called Horizon, which speaks of agriculture by 2020. We are still here dealing with the availability of agricultural land, with various things Europe has long solved. A million hectares of land, i.e. through the availability of state agricultural land, have been stopped by a government regulation, or by a minister. What's that stopped for? For what? Do you know that the establishment of a foreign company here in Croatia can come into possession of a country here in Croatia. Who's gonna get a 50-year lease on big surfaces? And now I admire your faith and hope that we will have modern, successful agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17866	Thank you very much. Time's up. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17867	Well, Your Honor, I didn't say it would be better right away. We only do these amendments to the law, and of course we all hope that the subsidies of the European Union will improve our production, our agriculture, because what is now zero. So everything that's done will be better. Why should we be worse than other countries that have joined the EU, such as Lithuania, Latvia, Poland and other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17868	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDSSB club and respected representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17869	Dear President of the Parliament, esteemed ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm extremely glad we're here in 19.50 to discuss the laws on agriculture. Could they not have entered the morning session, in the morning debate while media representatives were present to see what these laws were about, but here we are, in the same darkness, discussing the laws. Just as Croatia's agriculture experienced dusk, so here we are discussing such laws. What is Croatian agriculture? The strategic branch of the RS economy or the state budget parasite by the finance minister, and the people working in this very demanding and uncertain sector of workers, according to the first Deputy Prime Minister's statement. It's very bold and reckless behavior both the minister and the first vice president of the government. What does the Resolute Minister say about that? Is he working to correct this injustice against farmers or is he laying his shoulders in the dark of the resistor he has taken over? Because this year, no law has been passed except for the one about the withdrawal of funds from the Agricultural Chamber. He said his colleague Mandic, he's not here, that this is the first step in the development of agriculture. Gentlemen, it took you 10 months to take the first step. Almost like a newborn child. Do we have to wait 16 years for you to become a working man? Does the Republic of Croatia have a national strategy for the development of agriculture and what would be its objectives? The creation of added value from agriculture, ensuring the stability of income from agricultural producers and ensuring a stable supply of food on the domestic market should be included in the National Strategy for the Development of Agriculture, and we know that such targets are not even achieved. The EU's common agricultural policy is a demanding policy for both the state administration and the agricultural producers themselves. Croatia's integration into the common market of EU agricultural and food products has a number of shortcomings. The unique conditions of the competition are the advantages of operating on the EU market, but also a major challenge for manufacturers. The selective demands of consumers and strict standards in production are an additional burden for our producers in the EU. Are we ready for such a big and demanding market? By entering the European Union, the Republic of Croatia is practically losing a significant part of its autonomy in the management of agricultural policy. The common agricultural policy is becoming our national policy, and the European Agricultural Funds are becoming the main choice of financing the measures of agriculture policy in the Republic of Croatia. The independence of the Republic of Croatia in the decision-making process will be aware of the choice of the available modes within the 1st and 2nd pillars, which are direct payments and rural development measures. In his own time, the minister said that not everyone will be able to deal with agriculture anymore, and that we need to determine what they are really active farmers from those who have had an additional activity. Therefore, in Croatia it is not yet defined what an active farmer is. If an active and trained farmer is considered to be a person who, in the VAT system or who has more livestock and farmland, then more than half of those enrolled in the EU agricultural producer register could simply lose some of the current rights. In fact, of the 190 thousand registered in the register, 90 thousand are those who receive direct payments, and if 100 thousand are small farmers dealing with agriculture in a small volume and receive structural support, i.e. income support. This could best affect Slavonia and Baranja because it has 30% of the population of the Republic of Croatia at the level of the Republic of Croatia, and at the level of the Republic of Croatia, this percentage is 17%. How alarming it is to us and the data on the production of milk that in the last 6 years has disappeared more than 50% of the milk suppliers. In 2004, there were 50,000 777 suppliers, in December 2010, 16 thousand 432 suppliers. In December 2011, the total number of milk suppliers was 14 204 suppliers in the Republic of Croatia. What's going on with the food import? The data tells us that in 2011, we imported vegetables amounting to 429 million kuna and that vegetables that we can produce ourselves, vegetables that we can produce on our processing surfaces, on the surfaces of course that will be, or should be in the irrigation system. We know that the areas under irrigation are slightly more than 1%, and that's what colleague Vukbratovic was talking about. Here's just one comparison, fruit and grapes we imported by 256 million kuna. It does not contribute to the development of Croatian agriculture. I'm going to look back a little bit on the proposal of the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act. Article 12 provides that the control of the request for direct payments on the ground shall be carried out by the paying agency. What, then, is the regulation of inspection supervision referred to in Article 54? So does the agricultural inspector have no confidence in the paying agency, so he has to go out in the field and do surveillance? Furthermore, Article 19 says natural persons who made more than 48 thousand kunas of direct payments and rural development measures in the previous calendar year, and in the current year submit a request for direct payments, the income tax or profit tax on the basis of carrying out the agricultural activity in accordance with specific regulations. We at the HDSSB club think that the figure is too small and that it divides into at least 60, 70,000 kuna. Furthermore, Article 53(3) states that agricultural inspection operations are carried out by agricultural inspectors in the ministry and agricultural inspectors in the district units of the ministry. And in the second degree, the Committee for the Resolution of Appeals at the Ministry, whose members are appointed by the Government, resolves. The commission consists of three members appointed from the ranks of state officials in the ministry. We believe that members of the commission must not be from the Ministry of Agriculture or not from the administration where the first-degree solution has been adopted. Article 60(2), in the event that, after payment of support from users based on ex post controls on the ground, an irregularity has been established by the user, the paying agency shall issue a decision on the repayment of funds requiring the user to recover the funds paid within 30 days of the delivery of the decision to the user. This is where the field controls are mentioned again, and we don't think the law has a well-resolved control relationship by the Ministry's inspection and control by the paying agency's inspector. Their controls are consistent with either one of the controls unnecessary, or it is necessary to separate their tasks. Furthermore, a brief review of the proposal of the Agriculture Act. You plan to establish a Croatian agronomic chamber, i.e. HAK. Could the jobs you are planning to give HAK have already been done by the Croatian Agricultural Chamber with the registration? In Article 9(2), you are referring to the authorisation of agronomies to carry out private advisory services. Who will be the beneficiary of these consulting services, i.e. who will pay them, and how will farmers accept it? What will happen to the agricultural advisory service you've isolated from the agricultural chamber. Do you plan to privatise the same advisory service in the near future? It is also stated in Article 13(3) that in the second instance of the case, the Board of Appeal shall carry out its tasks with the Ministry whose members are appointed by the Government. You should have added the sentence: "The members of the commission should not be employees of the ministry or must not be from the administration that issued the first-degree solution.". I believe that no member of this committee should be employed by the Ministry of Agriculture or that a member of the commission must be from the administration that issued the solution in the first instance. Also, why do two members have to be persons with a State Exam, or inspectors, and here again we return to Article 14(2) in which you are talking about resolving the complaint in the second degree, where you say: "The appeal against the decision of the Ministry Inspector shall be resolved by the Board of Appeal referred to in Article 28(3) of this Law." The question arises as to what decisions will be made by the commission if it holds inspectors of the ministry, therefore colleagues from the first degree inspectors, we can freely say the Talia and the prosecutor, the Talia and the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17870	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have reported two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bora Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17871	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I'd like to recapture this exhibit of yours. To begin with, the EU has two committees in the European Parliament. One is agri, therefore for agriculture, and the other is the so-called regions, for regional development, which, therefore, is a regional and rural development that has, in total, not them, but a commission and through them with about 65% of EU funds. See how much Europe is, so how much Europe cares and invests in agriculture and rural development. This is actually the goal of almost the EU, first and primary objectives. Furthermore, you were talking about the agricultural advisory service, if the separation or separation is justified by the separation of the agricultural advisory service from that agricultural chamber, which is forced by the votes of the majority in the previous term, the only good or real result, then it is not some result, this Government and this minister. Furthermore, you were talking about this being late, etc., but later on, we didn't have a chance, and here's the memo, there was no opportunity for a public debate. These legal materials were passed by the government last Thursday, which is as many as 6.7 days. Today he is at the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. Was there a debate? It's not. Furthermore, irrigation, recklessly invested funds spoken of by Mr. Cobankovic, unfortunately we are constantly spinning and we don't even know if it is 1 or 1.5% or 1.6% of the irrigated areas in the Republic of Croatia, and the multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel has completely evaporated and wiped out almost from the projects and the possibility of launching a construction operation in the area of Slavonia and Baranja if it, where this channel would bring certain benefits and improvements both in irrigation, both in tourism and in many other segments. Furthermore, the strategy of the food-processing industry, no one talks about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17872	Thank you very much. Time's up. The next correction of an incorrect quote and a respected representative, I apologize, a replica and a respected representative, Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17873	Here, dear colleague, you've talked a lot about how the ministry didn't do anything and that the only thing that worked was that there were tax issues, etc. And you mentioned the income tax and the disappearance of income support. Well, I don't think it's true, but support for income doesn't run away and she stays. Here we talk about income tax and entering the VAT system for those producers crossing a certain amount of support. And just to visit, in the previous term, that amount was, firstly, 12 thousand kunas, after which, 24 thousand kunas were now required to enter the income tax system, i.e. the income tax system of 48 thousand kuna while the VAT system had so far been 80,000 kuna, and has now been transferred to 30,000 euros. We are talking about serious agricultural producers, a serious agricultural producer does not mean only one who has a thousand hectares, meaning one who has 2 hectares of plastics or something else, a serious producer means a man who lives on agriculture or whose agriculture increases income in his household. And if he asks for support for this, it is normal that, if he crosses certain segments or frameworks to pay one part of the state through his contributions and the other. What I would like to look back here because we have so far had uncontrollable applications in such a segment here we can pull the parallel between claims for damages from elemental disasters where we have had opportunities to see in certain requests that funds or aid with state resources are sought even in gardens and gardens. I think that's where we have to pull a certain parallel and that the limits must be set.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17874	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17875	Now, I don't understand what an active farmer is now, and when you mention a serious farmer, it's a little bit less clear to me now. As far as income support is concerned, I am aware of how much you do beekeeping, and I am convinced that many of your colleagues who do beekeeping and honey production are just pensioners whose beekeeping is a complementary activity or are receiving some kind of income support to deal with what they do. Just as you can mention your neighbor Stipe who has a small pension of 500, 600 kuna and deals with agriculture and receives some income support for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17876	Thank you very much. We're going to discuss clubs. Club Croatian Labourists and respected representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17877	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I just have to find out that our minister of agriculture is a very lucky man myself against us a little bit 17, that it is not very difficult for him, so we will take this problem easy, but here I would take advantage of this situation and this opportunity to really ask the President of the Parliament if it is possible that important topics for Croatia and all citizens of Croatia are still being put on not for the sake of journalists and not for television, and that in the mornings when there are still a little more parliamentary deputies here in this assembly because we will vote on these laws when conditions are obtained but how we will vote in advance we know what I think is wrong. The production of meat and milk, the number of livestock farms and agricultural employees in the last 10 years has been drastically dropping, and the dependence on imports is growing from day to day. Last decade's policy has caused milk production and delivery to be stopped in an average of 15 family farms per day, which produced severe economic and social wounds in the country. But it's just one part of the problem. The biggest problem is excessive imports. In the past 20 years, Croatia has imported more than $9.5 billion worth of food than it has exported, which means that we literally ate a fifth of the country's accumulated debt, with a constant trend in the growth of the food deficit. More than 2/5 of that deficit was created by imports of meat and milk, reducing GDP growth by at least 1% annually. In the last 10 years, only imports of milk and meat have been spent about as much as on road construction. Here I move on to the proposal for a law supplementing the Agriculture Act. Amendments and additions to this law are mostly minor corrections that do not significantly change the very core of the law except for the two newspapers that we read and which are introduced by these amendments and additions, which are in principle as such and to welcome. In particular, I mean the establishment of a Croatian agronomic chamber and the authorisation of agronomics to carry out professional advisory tasks which I hope will ultimately contribute to the development of agriculture because after more than 20 years we are introducing a profession in a wider agricultural practice. The second newspaper that we are introducing is the complementary activity of the agricultural CAPs, and I believe that this paper can certainly contribute to the development of these OPGs, as well as their competitiveness. A reference to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products. This agricultural product market in Croatia has not been regulated even though there has been a law since 2009. As such, the law relies on the EU 1234/2007 Directive to regulate and jointly organise the agricultural product market with specific provisions for certain agricultural products. This year, it has been improved in the EU in particular on milk and milk products, as well as dairy organisations, and I believe that the obvious changes in the EU have forced our legislator to make certain changes to the benefit of milk and milk products. According to experience in the field of information that is extremely shocking to the public, it is obvious that the law has been used by certain groups in Croatia but not by those dealing with direct production that was on an open impact of imports and which this law could have enabled more stable market conditions, and then certainly safer and more quality products. Non-transparent law enforcement has partly affected the fact that Croatia today is a food-dependent country. According to our knowledge at the Ministry of Agriculture, there is no functioning of the Committee for the Monitoring of Market Arrangements, which was mandatory to establish under Article 5. The law. What is good in the new bill is the safe return of the concepts of milk and milk products in Article 11(3) after being expelled in 2011, and it is good to introduce producer groups and organisations with an emphasis on milk and milk products first in the wording and afterwards in the articles of the law. In Article 9 of public intervention, 10 of support for private storage, Article 11 of special intervention measures, Article 12 of adaptation to market requirements and Article 14 of the Special Assistance System, in all those articles and their contents, we believe that it is necessary to legalise, or enter into articles a legal obligation to publish information on market interventions and to prescribe the way, content, place and time limits of data enforcement. In contrast to current practice, we believe that they must be made available to the public, otherwise the law can be applied to certain privileged groups as well. In Article 27(1), we would like to ask you to look at it a little bit and perhaps update it in a way that, behind the words, producers add words and processors. So let them, which means that processors are paid to promote the consumption of market improvements and to increase the quality of milk and milk products. Why do we always put all the burden on the manufacturer's back? It is an unequal and additional burden of production, which is in great decline anyway. It should be the opposite, that processors pay for the promotion to get raw materials as such. And finally, a review of the proposal for a law on agricultural incentives. The law is a nomotechnical processing of what was adopted several years ago in the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Encouragements are part of instruments aimed at achieving more goals: cheap and safe, health-regular food, a coherent environment, sustainable use of resources and others. However, the system of incentives and a reflection of agricultural policy as implemented or implemented in a particular country of the European Union. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Union and the adoption of the rules on the common agricultural policy promise that at least in the incentive system we will get a long-term strategy that we do not have so far. Unfortunately, this proposal for a law does not follow the rules of conduct of the European Union, even though it is already known to gauges and contours in the European Union's incentive systems for the programming period from 2014 to 2020. The situation in Croatia is very complex. The very fact that the Law of Incentives changed 15 times from 2002 to 2011 is an average of 7 months under the law or amending the law. In reality, it means that a warrior had sown a particular culture, and after harvesting it was worth some very different rules. One milk producer left a future heifer for milk farming and production, however, at the time the heifer was now starting to give milk in the meantime, the law on incentives has changed as many as four times. The proposal for a new law does not address the future of Croatian agriculture as a whole. Its development must be linked to the country's overall development, and should be based on the growth of small families across Europe as an extremely productive sector. Comments to this law would be as follows: Croatia is very late in reforming and adapting the European Union's common agricultural policy, the Ministry is extremely late in the proposal to pass this law because the European Union believes that the beginning of October 2012 is an acceptable deadline but better ever than ever. I do not understand whether I miscalculated, so I would ask the Minister to explain to me, in this bill, it seems to me that the Republic of Croatia did not in the 2013 budget provide the amount of envelope it negotiated in the amount of EUR 373 million. We have not even provided the envelope that the law provides for when setting up incentives if a larger number of surfaces or users, i.e. a larger number of rightholders, are registered. We have too many regulations stemming from this law, which will later have to be passed and signed by the minister. It is good that, in a period of 3 years, the local self-government unit will still be able to decide in part, and will provide support from its budgets after approval by the European Union. And one detail, in Appendix 3 of the listed extremely sensitive sectors, is e.g. all kinds of olive oil. If olive oil is a highly sensitive sector, why not put noise oil in this highly sensitive sector. It is good that associations that have registered a designation of origin or a geographical indication will be able to use incentives through this rural development measure. It is extremely bad that the proposal abolishes the modulation so far, so reducing the incentive rate for large and least recipients by 8 or 12% as it has been so far, and it has not been met, so it is obvious that in this way it is somehow protecting that large capital. The official suspension of modulation is explained by the fact that it concerned only the funds obtained from the European Union, and Croatia will have to introduce modulation in 2014, but until then I think we have a very long time and we are able to accommodate the biggest beneficiaries of incentives in Croatia, which, by the way, receive five times the majority of the incentive cake than in Western Europe and the countries of the European Union. And she would still be attached to her colleague, Cobankovic, and eventually, she would really appeal to the minister once again to sort out the failure of support to farmers, that is to say, to find a way to really figure out a certain breakthrough between the Ministry of Agriculture, which is a force for incentives and those same farmers who are in debt to the Ministry of Finance on any basis, and then try to solve this problem, I mean, still, to the satisfaction of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17878	Thank you, too, for your exposure. A replica of the respected representative Boris Kovacic has been reported. Here you go, Mr. Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17879	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a chance to thank Mrs. Nancy Tyrell for mentioning the noise oil, because even though I'm the last person to report for the debate, one of the topics is the noise oil. And I'm taking the opportunity since we're so few here, here you come to Ivanic City on Saturday and Sunday, there's Bucijada. And thank you again for that question, and I'll still have to discuss it later. President, I know I probably broke a little Rules of Procedure, but forgive me. It wasn't a real replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17880	Thank you very much. First of all, you didn't break the Rules of Procedure, so don't worry. The second is not us little, we are enough, the assembly is completely regular, the interest of parliamentary representatives above average, we have, they applied six clubs, eight MPs, that's excellent interest. Thirdly, the work plan was announced in advance. Fourthly, this session is broadcast by Max TV, Croatian TV, B-net TV and the Internet. So it's nothing irregular. However, it's convenient who has a good suggestion, a constructive debate. It's the easiest thing to do right now. Here you go. We're moving on, and I apologize for the reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17881	Here's to taking advantage of what you just said, Mr. President, so let me say, I said not so much for the transfer, I'm really personally not interested in being honest with anyone looking, I said I'd like to see us here more in the assembly of the vis-a-vis ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17882	You had a couple of colleagues in your line of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17883	It's on yours. And now, my colleagues, I'm still in favour of that even development of all regions, so here's how lucky we in Istria are that we put this olive oil on the market and found good and nice quality niche and people who are interested in that oil. I certainly care that in Croatia it is also recognizable and noisy oil because I think it is precisely the mark of our competitiveness and originality that we talk about so many times.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17884	Thank you very much. By doing so, we have exhausted the list of club representatives in the Croatian Parliament who have been registered for this topic. We're moving on to a debate, an individual debate of ten minutes. The first for discussion was registered by the respected representative Zoran Vasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17885	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am, in this debate, only to be limited to the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Market for Agricultural Products, since I did not arrive in that section on behalf of the Circle, so here's what I want to say. Here are the other amendments and additions to that law. The original law was passed in December 2009. The first changes were in February 2011. So this alignment is due to these changes and additions due to alignment with the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, the regulation of the agricultural products market concerns the regulation of the internal market and trade with other countries, the recognition of producer organisations and sectoral organisations as well as specific provisions for individual sectors. The internal market arrangement covers market interventions and rules relating to the production and conditions of placing on the market of products. Market interventions shall be carried out through several measures in accordance with this law. One of them is public interventions, buy-in measures, storage and sales of products. And here I'm saying that our ministry, so the Ministry of Agriculture this year, co-financed with one kuna per kilogram, so consumption apples, and industry with 55 limes, for which 38 million kuna was provided in the budget. The quotas are set at 30,000 tonnes for consumption apples and 15 thousand tonnes for industrial processing, and that is exactly one of the measures of the ministry that has already been implemented this year, just to help our fruit farmers who, this year, have been hit by a natural disaster, and that is two basic disasters, unfortunately, in the spring of the cold and here is the drought. In addition to this measure, there are other measures in this law, namely support for private storage, special intervention measures, adaptation to market requirements, a system of production restrictions and a system of specific aid implemented in the following sectors, the milk and milk products sector, olive oil, hops, fruit and vegetables, wine, the beekeeping sector. This law also defines the concept of a producer group or producer organisation as a legal person based on a producer's initiative in the sectors of certain agricultural products. And here I would like to quote one title published these days in a daily newspaper that says: “The problem of all organic production stems from producer disorganization. ” I think it can be extended to other unfortunately agricultural sectors. Therefore, the current situation on this issue in the Republic of Croatia is not even the best solution. There are too few producer organisations and organisational forms in which our farmers operate, so unfortunately what is normal in developed EU countries has not been our case so far. In any event, the basic logic states that the production of any product is much cheaper if the entry costs, i.e. the purchase of recompetitions, are cheaper, so if they occur together or sell alike. It's been tried in the past and with the founding of so-called Machine rings, but it didn't come to life either, so it wasn't suggested to our farmers that they perform together, that they don't buy each of them tractors, that they use expensive loans, but obviously it wasn't done in the past, it wasn't worked out, but I'm sure the ministry at the head with Minister Jakovina will work on it. This law also defines trade with other countries, i.e. import and export licences and tariff quotas. And here's some data, although there was talk of how much imports, how much exports of agricultural products so far have been to the Republic of Croatia, and I'm going to bring out the following data. So, regardless of what we are, we are a tourist country, making big income from tourism, and we are a farming country because we use a little more than a million hectares of agricultural land. So we can say absolutely that we have great resources when we talk about agricultural land, and when we consider the state agricultural land that is not being used, then we can just figure this out. But then we go back to importing and exporting agricultural products. Therefore, imports in 2011 of agricultural products were 2 billion and $592 million. At the same time, I repeat in 2011, according to the State Statistics Institute, it was a billion and $560 million. So, coverage 60% of what Cobankovic was saying, but unfortunately, when you look at the more detailed statistics, when you look at what was being imported then we come up with the losing data that actually our farming so far has not been taken care of in the best way. So let's say for meat and clown products, $229 million, for mercury and animals $160 million is all for imports. Milk and dairy products 163 million dollars, vegetables 103 million dollars, fruit 164 million dollars, vegetable fats and oils $120 million, sugar $135 million, etc., etc. So not only do we not export sufficient quantities of agricultural products but we also do not provide sufficient quantities for our own needs, so we produce agricultural products, unfortunately, for only 55% of our needs. I'm sure that'll change. So this is more than regrettable and therefore I support all the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture in order to develop our agriculture, and the first of them is certainly to place the aforementioned state agricultural land in office because unfortunately 890 thousand hectares of such land are not in operation, we should all ask ourselves a question which development would be ensured only by putting it into office. And here are a few examples of the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture this year when we talk about the regulation of the market. So here is the first thing I would like to read, which is that on 2 October this year, the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health of the European Commission unanimously adopted decisions at its session in Brussels allowing the Republic of Croatia to export fresh meat of pigs and pig meat products to the EU market, as well as a decision approving the export of shellfish. This is ultimately the result of this ministry's work. And to return to imports and exports, according to these indicators 4.6 times less export live animals and meat compared to imports, so I am sure that with this measure, i.e. these decisions, this situation will change, or improve. And the second thing I wanted to say about something about this law, which is that here we witnessed the other day, so that the public was informed, that is to say, the journalists found out and informed the public about it, so the discovery of several shipments of dairy and meat products from BiH that were allegedly infected with salmonella. The inspection has done its job spotlessly, and therefore everything that does not satisfy the prescribed quality has not entered the Croatian market and information which has subsequently come from the ministry, so that all suppliers whose goods are subject to increased supervision in the next period and, if such a case is repeated, they will no longer be able to place their products here. So, the end of the quote, the information from the ministry. I think all citizens of the Republic of Croatia can be safe knowing that these measures are being implemented. And in the end, with all that I've mentioned, so in this law, it's the notion of creating speculative supplies. It is the fact that the stocks of agricultural and food products in the Republic of Croatia which cross levels at the date of EU accession which may be considered a common exchange of supplies may be subject to control and regressive law. And since I said earlier that this law is in line with the acquis, the EU can only repeat, together with everything previously said, that is to say, that I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17886	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative, Petar Cobankovic, has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17887	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Dear colleague and I will say two things, one has said about the implementation of intervention measures on the purchase of apples, mandarins, grapes and the like. Yes, it is a measure that continues in continuity, and I agree with a good measure that helps because in a difficult year, virtually with such damages as both winemakers and fruitmakers would practically experience collapse. But it has nothing to do with this law. It is a national measure that has no foothold in the organisation of the market and we can implement it until we are a member of the EU. And the second thing, once again I'm going to repeat certain data, look when we're talking about the external trade balance, then we're talking primarily about the emphasis on imports. And I agree, we may be importing too much, you know, but at the same time Croatia has significant exports. And secondly, let's not move away from tourism, there are certain revenues in tourism. The best form of exports is when there's consumption through tourism and it's exports without crossing the border. Even though 7 billion revenues are from tourism, it's going to be 7 billion euros? Do we agree that the minimum 15% of that is food-based? Do your own math, and let's not say we don't even cover our own needs. Croatia covers, when all this includes its own needs and part of the needs for tourism, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17888	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Zoran Vasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17889	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17890	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17891	... So this year they're going to spend money on an industrial apple just because of a difficult situation. [[Specially enabled.]] However, I'm going to look more at imports and exports, so I'm going to go over them again, so unfortunately, according to the 2011 data, the product worth $2,600 million was imported and exported to $1,600 million. So we're down to a billion dollars. And when we know what resources we have, then it's sad, then it's sad. And when we look at what the structure of imported goods is, I'm afraid, I'd like to believe what you're saying, but according to our manufacturers so far, they haven't been able to place their products with hotel chains, they've been imported goods. But I'll say one more thing, isn't it sad, is it a shame that, among other things, it's imported, let's be honest about a small amount of $1 million worth, but enough is said, plant material for the plentiary, the imported vervains of the locust are certainly imported. Can we agree that given such unprocessed agricultural land that so far has not been put into operation all these years, that it could not have been encouraged, that it could not have gone towards our producers, so that it also produces it if there is nothing else that we can do, so that at least we do not import it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17892	Thank you, Your Honor. The next debate of 10 minutes is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17893	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, my exposure will go in the direction of what my colleague Vasic has already announced, i.e. my debate regarding the Law on the Regulation of the agricultural products market, i.e. one aspect mentioned by his colleague Vasic, but he did not stick to it. I think it is very important to emphasise when we are discussing, therefore, regulation of the agricultural products market, that this segment should be particularly regulated since the market is often a generator for the instability of the entire agricultural sector. Therefore, if we talk about product prices and the like, do producers consider that it is profitable, etc. I must say that this need has been recognised before, so it has been done in this direction to establish a stock exchange of agricultural products that would make large quantities of agricultural products available in one place, thus making it easier for the processing industry, the catering industry and similar fast access to the agricultural product. And so the stock exchanges in Rijeka, Benkovec and Osijek were established, so I only have the information in those three places, but they function more as wholesalers. However, according to how I understood the concept of the stock market, the wholesalers are not. What the stock exchanges were supposed to do is, above all, the availability of large quantities of certain products. So, if you have a manufacturer, let's say a brewer, who needs a certain amount of hops, it needs to be addressed to the stock market that has, so in the manufacturer's register, or the supplier of that product, and can easily and in a relatively painless manner, so when they agree on a price, come to a large amount. The shifts are constant and the shifts also come as an initiative for a few associated producers so that I am informed that there is an Internet stock for agricultural products for the OPG. The initiative that comes from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, that may be the future, which is more so if we consider that the OPG handles a trend of 70% of farmland in the Republic of Croatia. So, as far as land is concerned, if we're looking at it from the ground, we can say that small producers, so the O.P.G. has a primate there anyway. The second thing, which is the same colleague Vasic mentioned was the association of producers and clustering that is extremely important in this segment. Therefore, for several reasons, it primarily allows manufacturers of a particular product to deliver large quantities of a specific product. So if we talk about, for example, a caterer who asks for a large amount of honey for his consumption, then a small producer might not be able to offer it to him, but those 4, 5, 6 joints might be able to do it. Also, clustering and association reduces entry costs, so if we have more producers using the same machines or the same infrastructure or exchanging different products, because the waste of one production is actually raw material for others. So, first of all, I'm thinking about the link between warfare and livestock, etc. This creates competitiveness, so then small producers become competitive on the market as well. I will refer again to tourism because tourism has been mentioned, so large hotel chains and others are subject to the Public Procurement Act, so they must conduct a public tender if they want large quantities. In order for small producers to compete in such tenders at all, they must first of all have a quantity, and then have to offer a satisfactory price, which will make the public tender acceptable. And in the end, what is not negligible is branding, branding that is extremely important, and I'm going to give you an example from beekeeping. This is an example of good cooperation between beekeepers and local self-government units in this case of Krapina-Zagorje County, which has been promoted by the joint forces by a new brand, which is Zagorje Bagrem's honey. So Bagrem's honey that works to be recognized as the product of the Zagorski banks. What's bad about beekeepers, and I'm particularly glad to come from Osijek, which is also the cradle of beekeeping in Croatia, is that our honey is often often because of this inrecognition as a brand often imports into the EU, therefore in the raw materials capacity and is then packed in their packaging and sold under other brands, I don't think it's an honor for our beekeeping industry to consider, therefore, that the exceptional potential of beekeeping we have. So first of all, this is an appeal to local self-government units but also to other state institutions including the ministry to recognise this problem and to actively engage so proactively in solving it. Some of the ministries and state institutions, i.e. local self-government units, are working. So I cited this Zagorje example but I believe there are more. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts can now also include and engage with the entrepreneurial impulse, since farmers are therefore not only existing as OPGs but also as d.o.o. etc. So once again, Ministers keep that in mind, I believe that they are also familiar with this problem but also any law that will improve agricultural production, and in this case the market for agricultural products has my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17894	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica has been reported, respected representative Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17895	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'd like to be completely in agreement with your presentation as complete as possible, but I'd like to add something else to that. So the first in the Bjelovar-Belova County were the first in Croatia beekeepers to protect their brand, it's called Sweet thread, it's a honey of acacia. It is prescribed in cooperation and with the Ministry and with the Faculty of Agriculture and here and there we went a step further in cooperation with regional self-government where through the project Glass of Milk, a tablespoon of honey that was launched by the HNS was introduced into our meals, into our kindergartens, in our elementary schools three times a day healthy food through honey, and now we slowly move on with this project directly with milk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17896	And the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17897	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm not... I'm holding this as a very good example, but I can give you a different example just so you know what the situation is on the ground. So you have the situation Honey Days in Croatia which are held in Osijek that every autumn which, in my view and in the power of Osijek beekeeping or Osijek-Baranja County and in tradition are not sufficiently recognized and supported by units of local self-government. So something we have a good story that can definitely build a beekeeper's alliance is very enthusiastic about that story, wants to spread, but a lack of hearing from local self-government units can put that at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17898	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Honorable representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17899	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, I'd be the first to report Mr. Cobankovic and my colleague, Tyrelli, who I accept entirely. Something about the elemental accident I remember in this House we discussed that budget reserve is actually given for the prices of high school ticket, and this is obviously a disadvantage today because these funds could have been used for this elemental disaster. However, from the Barometer of the Institute of Social Research "Ivo Pilar" per perception of Croatian society desirable economic sectors at local level 62.4% take up tourism and support tourism development and 50.7% agricultural development. This is also the reason why, regardless of what this session is going on tonight, it may have been that these points may have been passed on in the morning. But we don't need to be too smart to make a correlation between tourism and agriculture and I would add the wood industry here because of the hotel and other facilities down and Dalmatia. Normally, it is necessary and necessary and should certainly be used. All of this has been preceded by infrastructure conditions, if it hadn't been difficult to talk about a successful tourist season today, we would have had a hard time talking about not having a highway about the great visitation of our tourists especially from Western Europe. What's important is why I mention that part of tourism and highways in agriculture, agriculture can't, I think my colleague said it well, can't depend on meteorological conditions. This problem of irrigation or deforestation is necessary and important precisely because of farmers. What I want to say but I will not read everything from the government's programme, the government in its programme says and talks about higher investment in land, defining the optimal relationship between farm and industrial agriculture, the implementation of cohesion, the application of economic criteria, supporting the development of livestock farming, warfare, capital investment, the establishment of development centres, the construction of appropriate municipal and other infrastructures, the promotion of sustainable development of rural space, etc., etc. Certainly commendable. But food problems in the world need to be seen as a strategic factor. It's necessary and it's important and the smart government has to take advantage of it. It's a signal to all of us. Food's expensive and it'll be even more expensive. Mr. Vasic said that we only have 1 million acres which is, I don't know how much it's in percent, but it can certainly be used more. What we need to do urgently, which is while we're talking about a cattle farm tonight or an O.P.G. is closed. So let us help them to set priorities, adapt policy and the need for a particular space, region, select support models and continuous education. In any event, the government must coordinate the development programme with the overall economic policy through forests, water, agricultural land, association or association of smaller OPGs or the like, so that we do not get this problem with the purchase of milk in the Dalmatian Zagora, which brings us down to great problems. What happened to us in the last nine months? The price of milk has been reduced, agreedly regulated prices have been broken down, market intervention has been abolished by 42 limes per litre, the price of livestock has been increased. If we add drought and lack of livestock food then we see how difficult it is for Croatian cattlemen, so if you want warlords and fruit farmers. What concerns me especially is that the amount of milk that was 600 million liters has increased to 750 million liters and I'm afraid we're not going back in 2003 to these 600 million liters. What is still very important, especially from where I come from, these small family economies, these small farms are very important because of the population or population depopulation because it is a shame to lose that population in those parts. This must also be Croatia's strategic interest. And in the end, I don't think it's too late, because I don't know if you know Mr. Minister that the dairy association has announced a big protest tomorrow, and I don't know if the talk with you and the government and the peasants that require the lowest ransom price of 4.05 kuna per litre of milk, because at the price of 1.99 to 2.40 losses in production is at least 1.5 kuna per litre. Production costs increase from month to month, most pay off high credit rates, more expensive fuel, electricity, gas, veterinary services, livestock food, and the state has not yet paid them all their debts for the past year. The additional problems this year were as I said related to the drought. That's why milk is much less. The information was provided that only this year did Croatia fail from 1500 to 1700 dairy farms, which is certainly not good. In 2001, there were 58000 of them, and today there are only 12800. In August of this year, 4.5 million liters of milk was produced less than in the same period last year, a 10% drop in production per month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17900	Thank you, Your Honor. The next one is a respected representative of Ruza Tomasic. She's not in the assembly, she's losing her right to discuss this matter. Dear Representative Marijan Skuric is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17901	Dear Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here's a lot of things we've already defined in the framework, these laws that are before us today, I might say a little bit more now about rural development itself. Just on the basis of that, I'm the mayor where we work directly with people, we work with farmers where they express their difficulties and the problems they have. First of all, here is a comparison, rural development is defined within the European Union every area that has a smaller population of 135 inhabitants per km2 so that a large part of Croatia falls under rural development and this whole area of which I belong to northern Croatia is also in that part. So, in general, we could conclude that after many of these statements that agriculture is one of Croatia's strategic development to invest a lot in agriculture, that we have a great tradition in agriculture, but when we recapitulate it by this time for about a month, we stop importing it and I think we would very quickly starve to death. This is unfortunately the result of all of this, and that is precisely what it says about that if we have not been able to define ourselves so far, that here by accepting before all these laws that are based on the harmonisation and which are defined a few years ago in the mutual negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, we hope that we will indeed do so at that level which will primarily define the sustainability of the development of agriculture, as well as the states as a whole. In particular, I would like to mention the things that I would like to mention in a way that we must have the specificity of our territory throughout the Republic of Croatia, should not be generalised. However, this agricultural diversity and biodiversity in part of Slavonia across the coasts, islands, Croatian Zagorje, Međimurje, Podravina is very much to be respected and to see how in some ways to make it specific. Here is just one thing and a diet, one bad agricultural policy, not respecting a small part of the production just here is my town, the area of the town of Lepoglava from about 15 years ago over 2,500 cows now we are down to less than 200, with only a few more cows having 10 and more cows, because Croatian Zagorje and this area are characterized by extremely small areas, a large fragmentation of parcels, too small contributions to that part to the minimal promotion of the surface, the number of animals, not arranged property legal relations, an old agricultural household, a small herd by the economy and above all, if we have OPGs, they are left to themselves. It's a tradition where for many years people lived next to a cow, a calf that that family fed, now there's no one left to feed. It is a problem for us in local self-government, how these, this specificity of help with our incentives, the support that will be by local level, county level and state level. That's very hard. Let me just mention that from 2002 to 2011, the Encouragement Act, which is nevertheless an incentive, the incentives are the most important, has changed fifteen times, which is, on average, seven months by law, a change of that law. And what is important to note, in reality, this means that if a warrior sows a particular culture after harvest, they were already a completely different rule or the milk producer left behind, which left the future heifer for the production of milk at the moment when that heifer, after cows, had already changed that incentive four times. I've been here a few times, and during this evening, I've said it. So by defining that all of this together has led to a reduction in agricultural production, technological lagging, employment cuts, increased debt, indifference, high production prices and abandonment of rural areas. Here's what we can really say is that more and more instead of the treated surface, we have surfaces under the bat, and I think that in Croatia the best success is ambrosia. Of course, in that part and this diversity both in the rural area and other things that may be available, and they are still in large bandages because they also do not have adequate support from that level, primarily rural tourism, biogas plants and other agricultural activities that we can do on that part. In any case, Croatian agriculture has paid too much for now in order to economic integration into the European Union, which should not have been the case. Of course, these laws do not address the issue of agriculture for the purpose of the Republic of Croatia but they give hope and way of doing so in the Member States. Surely, through other legal resolution instruments, the ministry will contribute to making the Republic of Croatia self-sufficient in food production someday. I also support this law as on behalf of the HNS club because it finally opens up the possibility of participating cities and municipalities in the state support system more transparently, since we know our end and our needs locally. We also want to continue to implement the incentives we have had so far in the three years since we enter the European Union. The previous laws we said always limited us to a period within a year. And so we would like to continue, as is the proposal of these laws, to be transparent and to that, I am sorry that it has not been implemented before. Of course, we ultimately want our agriculture to be as orderly as possible, especially that all the speculation and irregularities that have been happening in incentives and all the other things, always be subject to penalties. I'd just like to mention a few more suggestions about things I'd like to make. One of these is that what we have already said is that, indeed, in addition to the three sectors in question, I have also noticed, especially at the suggestion of our producers in the North Croatian area, that there is indeed no noise oil. It may have been said that before the framework agreement with the European Union was defined that there were no large producers at that time, it was not so present on the market. But here is back a few years and through the Association of Noise Oil Producers of Croatia, it is indeed a product and how valuable it is. And I have to even use one finding that our continent is much harder to define than the sea. Olive oil in itself, I guess, because of the large number of tourists and some who paint it, film it, it's more beautiful to come to the sea and I think the noise oil absolutely in each part is worth the same treatment. I'd like to mention this specifically, and here's an example of Međimurje, the Goran County, where we've invested a lot here. Here the minister was particularly present where, especially through IPARD, we received funds where we invested in the development of capacity production and through the bargaining process, it is indeed expanding. Now that I mention the IPARD here, I would ask the Minister and the Ministry to really do everything possible to educate people, educate farmers, make it legal, adapt them, and that we can make use of the funds that we simply offer. I would also mention the suggestion that as much as possible of associations that have registered the designation of origin, I would first of all mention a good example of external desire, or the geographical origin of the meat of Zagorje turkey that we work more on such protection throughout Croatia. By entering the European Union, someone from Scandinavia may be protecting our product in Croatia. It is possible because it is not who remembers it before, but who does all those conditions for it, so it would not be good, and we see that we are arguing whether the Crane sausage belongs in Austria, Slovenia or perhaps something in Croatia. It should also warn all our producers and by the ministry that this is more initiated and that we protect it, specificity and speciality. It's ours after all. And of course that part is that all well-intentioned suggestions, the professions in solving this problem, are possible to see it through the ministry. Indeed, the minister has indeed visited practically all of Croatia this year in a conversation with directly agricultural producers has also come to these conclusions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17902	Thank you, too. Your presentation was reported by a respected representative, Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17903	Here's an esteemed colleague, I'm glad you brought it up especially in one sentence of pumpkin oil and IPARD. In fact, Mr. Cobankovic said when he presented here that the former government had done well in the negotiations. I'm glad it's a passing grade, I'm glad it's for all of us, but I think maybe in some things it could have been better, because now here's the noise oil we can't even put in any more because it's been negotiated the way it is. We're in this situation right now. And regarding the IPARD, we know that this Republic of Croatia, or our farmers, have very little use of the funds from this fund, especially because we have not been prepared. Maybe it didn't work out enough on that part. Here I can say that I am glad that this is the last time we were in Brussels and when we have the information directly means from Brussels and here from the Ministry that we finally have this IPARD circle coming in and the machines, means tractors up to 100 kilowatt hours. So now our farmers are able to get a 50% refund invested. Unfortunately, it may have come a little late because we have a very short deadline for using it, that we could have used that segment earlier safely to use the IPARD fund funds to a far greater extent. What could be pulling a parallel here between the IPARD fund and the former capital investments that are really good at this turned out to be very bad. Why? Farmers went into huge investments, in loans to produce a $2.3 million fee, received million, million-and-a-half kuna returns, but had no obligation to spend those funds further on an investment or in the payment of the war annuity of the loan, unfortunately. Because there's a part of the real guilt lying on the farmers themselves. We won't go in because we can't say farmers buy expensive machines. Maybe a car of 30, 40,000 euros is an expensive machine, but one tractor or one combination of 40, 50 thousand euros really isn't an expensive machine, and I said a little number here as you said. Here, just a little dyspression on this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17904	Thank you very much. Next for the debate is the respected representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17905	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'd say my Dragutin Tadjanović long into the night, on a winter white night, and then I'll say it's autumn night, so I'll cut the maximum. I think we should discuss it individually, but I respect the decisions and that's the case. I want to say something about support in agriculture. All governments so far, in the past 8 years, and this government has also allocated significant resources to support agriculture not only for crops that have been sown but also for capital investments. Return funds to purchased machinery, farm construction, multi-annual plantation, etc. that I do not take up valuable time, and all for reasons why this Croatian peasant would be ready for the country's equipment and resources, farms and everything else ready to welcome the EU's entry to this I would say the European and world-wide raw market in agriculture. Is that what we did? I think it is because significant funds have been invested. There was a leak. For example, many, not many, have roughed up some who have not engaged in traditional agricultural production, received large areas, took loans, and did not have a reference offering on those surfaces, took expensive machines, and got into trouble. Today they're closing farms, O.P.G.s, businesses and the like. But the people who made the trade on agriculture, who ate bread with 7 crusts of bogs, they managed in these and these conditions because they had never had support in history but had to pay taxes on agricultural land, etc. I think and believe that this resource of agricultural land is not fully used in Croatia. If we take into account those areas that are not processed, if we take into account those areas that are below mines, which we need to demine as quickly as possible to put them into operation and all of our municipalities and cities, I think 99, 98% have made available programmes for agricultural land where they had to return, and these dear friends return even today people who are damaged have solutions, not all have examples, introduced into possession. What their former system took from them. The following are concessions, rental and sale of agricultural land and something very important that I have noticed on the ground, I believe that you have noticed it too, and that is the Law on the Rounding of Agricultural Land there are no such forms, in my view available, means the return of concession, the lease and the possible sale of the Law on the Circulation of Agricultural Land if they have not made one advance, and that is the measure of agricultural land and this is still not done in some of our counties. Without a measure of agricultural land, no agricultural land is available. And if it's about the return and the concessions and the lease and the sale. I don't know what the state of the state is now that the State Geodetic Administration paid 33% of the measurements, 33% of the county and the municipalities or the city on which the measure is carried out 34%. There was a need to allocate significant resources so that these forms of availability could be fully used by our farmers. The maintenance of the 3rd and 4th-row channel network was mentioned here. What we've done in the past four and five years today has been re-healed into matches, weeds, and why? Because it wasn't maintained. It wasn't tarp and muddy, these 3rd and 4th-row channels. Agricultural inspection should and must do its job, but there are some absurdities on the ground that small farmers have their own possessions at 15, 16, 17 places so in the Office of State Administration there is a mistake here with barley, there is wheat or tooth and the support for that amount is the same to those cultures, and we did not find you a complete mistake you have no support for anything else that you have sown in that vegetation year. Agricultural land which has not been used by the municipality is obliged, to give this agricultural land on, has an obligation to give this agricultural land for one vegetation year that the land does not stand waste. And we have cases in my Ship-Posavina County where the mayors of the municipality did so and issued a confirmation of who he had given that he could use the support and were eventually punished because in the procedure, a mistake was made, no contest was published on the advertising board, etc., you should not have given support to whom the commission had unanimously assigned the country, but you had to, could have given support to the previous user who used this same land I mean contract for 10 years. And I appeal as well as my colleagues who have mentioned this year's damages have been agriculturally enormous and I ask that any way be possible for people, farmers who have suffered damage in any way, to be compensated. And the last thing I'm gonna say, cooperative. Our farmer in any part of the Republic of Croatia has some aversion, an aversion to cooperatives. At my place, our Slavonic peasant learned that everyone has everything, from tractors, 50, 60, 150 horses, all connections and combines at the end, instead of teaming up, invested it all in cooperative and 5, 6, 8 how many people and of course these people, these farmers who have entered now cannot repay their loans. That's why no mergers got into these difficulties, and now they're having big problems, and now they're all at the end of the line. And so is my club representative, because he said he would support these three laws, so will I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17906	Thank you, too. A respected representative, Vladimir Bilek, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17907	Dear colleague, here's the thing, I don't think you're right when you said that in inspection, when there's an irregularity, complete support is taken away. As far as I know from the practical experiences of fellow farmers that if it happened, because they sometimes changed the country, and it was not drawn and yet there was a problem they had a certain percentage reduction in the cost of the support. So you're not subtracting the total amount, but when an irregularity is found then you're urinated by that irregularity. I would agree with you, with the conclusion that we have invested a terrible amount of money in agriculture and that the former government has allocated this enormous amount in the budget, God forbid it could have been more, God forbid we are now praying in this budget to separate more. Normally, those people who saw the possibility and way of business thinking at that time, here I can say one good example of a family economy called Kek, from the Brestovec, which with 20 thousand euros invested at the start and a small barn came up with a respectable agricultural economy so far and because of capital investments and for the use of all the resources that the state was working on. But what you didn't do well didn't work out surveillance. There was a sharing of support in areas where they were not even sown, that these support had returned, and these were huge areas where the support was shared and no control over these aids was available, so. I don't think we can agree here that the farmer has prepared very well. I think the surveillance worked so that we could have almost 30% of farmers more successful because sometimes even when someone tries, you know what they say, "The Chance makes a thief," and when someone who gets their fingers on it, they think twice and doesn't get into that opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17908	Thank you, too. Last registered representative for the debate for 10 minutes Boris Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17909	It's always gotta be the last one. Mr. President, thank you very much for giving me your word and I also thank you after and here is my replica for protecting all of us so nicely and in these late hours, that we have the right to speak. I'll, no matter what, be perceptive, so I'm gonna cut this debate short at best, but it's still too late. So I'm going to skip the debate on the Agricultural Land Act, but I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity here, here, given that there's a Mr. Minister here with his associates and I'm watching as it's a young team and of course they're patiently listening to us, and what else is he going to do? However, I would like to say, in addition to all these problems we have heard about, I have really listened very carefully to the full debate, and I think it was both quality and productive. It seems to me, you have a nice job, you're young people, you're in agriculture, I'm a fest year old, I'm 39 years old, maybe more. Believe me, I've met so many hardworking people, especially in agriculture, even a half-wit. Let's give them a chance, let's get away from these speculators that we've been talking about, about those who take advantage of this. We have so many wonderful people, and it seems to me in all parts of Croatia, I personally know them. You have a wonderful opportunity here, agriculture still has a great chance, I'm holding your thumbs. I'm just going to talk tonight about one aspect of the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act. It has already been said so much that I am truly honored, here is my esteemed colleague and colleagues because here I come from the city, so many times mentioned in the noise oil, I come from the city where there are eight times already the chucaades, I come from the city, you mention the association for the production of noise oil, and here she is thanks to this pumpkin founded in Ivanić town. Of course, that she would have been founded somewhere else, and that there is no Bucijada, but here we are beating ourselves that it was done something just before in Ivanic City thanks to this Bucijada. And I am speaking from that aspect of what was asked here, and I know that yesterday was the debate on the parent board, is that right on the Committee on Agriculture, and we even got answers, and I think at least that's how I was informed that in 2009 when measure 11 was agreed, so did Chapter 11, and this other measure, that it was no longer possible to negotiate in particular in this sector. But that's exactly what I'm saying, and that's what I'm saying right now, that's what I think it's supposed to be for the ministry and for all of us. You also mentioned units of local self-government and regional to find here and some other opportunities and through those sectors that may not be covered now and obviously can't be and you will certainly now refer to it but the chance exists, there is an opportunity to help these and such producers in another way. In this case, when we have already mentioned these noises, it is a beautiful product that is so widespread, it is an opportunity in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia and we can be a significant producer not only in Europe. It would be sad to have only a bone exported, if we didn't have what happened to Croatia with the forests. For centuries, the exploitation and export of the hulls and the eventual cutting of the pruning structure. They used to take it from us, steal it from us, then we've been doing it for the last 100 years for as long as I know. This is how much I've been taught an opportunity to make a finished product of any noise oil, I say it can be done without any problems, they assure me so. So far, we're exporting what you mentioned on the example of honey, so we're also exporting a bone, and then smart guys in Austria do it nicely and sell nicely I don't know what kind of virgin or what they're not already called those kinds of oil. I'm just saying that so he'd be as much of an influence on you as he once again. I'm sure there are measures, there are mechanisms to narrow down these producers a little bit, give them a chance, and that's actually an opportunity for all of us. That's why I think agriculture is really a branch of the economy with a big chance. Of course, I didn't call you in particular with this discussion right now, so I'm sure I didn't burden you, but I think that's it, even if it seems to me that it's one of the nicer jobs, maybe Mr. Cobankovic won't be with me as a former agriculture minister. But I think it's a beautiful resort where we can all do a lot together. I repeat, come all the way to Bucado, I repeat because of this one battery of people in Croatia worth, valuable people. We're always talking about the bad one, and I could tell the same many, very many examples. And if we need a little consensus somewhere, that's why I was glad to hear that the HDZ club would also support these laws or two laws at least two, right, see how carefully I listened to you, it was also affirmative from other clubs, and it seems to me that we all need it together, and I think I promised myself that I wouldn't talk anymore. Here's a little longer than I thought. And once again, come on Saturday you will be my dear guest in Ivanic City. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17910	Thank you, too. Final word, Minister of Agriculture Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17911	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm really not responsible for the term being like this, I'm from the government at a disposition and I can tell you about a series of meetings that I could do today because of this stand by and I haven't been in a position, and I'd like to maybe if there were more colleagues and colleagues here and to hear more praise for these legal solutions but also constructive remarks and suggestions that I've heard in today's debate. I've also listened to you closely with my associates, we've recorded a lot of things as such, and I think a lot has been said after good thinking, a good argument although a lot of things point to ignorance of the matter itself. I'm going to try since it's really a little later time to be also pretty quick and pass and make a little reference to these exposures. I did not take this opportunity that I could take according to the Rules of Procedure after each presentation but try to sublime because I also predicted that there would be certain repetitions following the analysis of each legislative proposal. As to the obviousness of his fellow Matjana, it is seen very briefly that he comes from the local self-government unit and that he is deeply concerned with the problem of rural areas. A few things are listed if we are talking about the importance of rural area 21.5% of the Republic of Croatia are rural areas where almost 50% of the population live, they are exclusively areas where agriculture is one of the main branches of strategic branches or branches of the economy or branches of business and as such are extremely important. This is why we are working on a rural development programme which is a strategic document for the time period 2014-2020 and through it will allow for the quality of the withdrawal of all funds especially these other funds from the second pillar, I am talking about 333m euros that will be available to us. I would not agree with that story that the use of Agronet as a modern tool will be so restrictive for one reason of 95 thousand applicants we now have nearly 30,000 agricultural producers who are regularly using the Internet and using the system neatly. What we're going to have to do is make all our services talk about advisory services, agencies, inspections doing their job and being a good service, to those who are not so informatively skilled and ready. There is always that possibility that you will be able to go physically to the paying agency's office and get data from employees at the agency itself. So that's not going to be a problem, but we're counting on a really permanent, continuous education of our farmers that number of 27, 28 or almost 30,000 over a few years will be raised to at least 50% or over 50% of people are used by agronette as a modern tool of access to information. The entry of land into the ARCOD and there was a lot of debate and land related. My esteemed colleague and friend Mr. Šima Djurdjevic has already skipped a little, and in a couple of weeks he will be in the agricultural land law debate, so now I won't elaborate much on him and look back, but the same thing. The entry into the ARCOD, we know how much is entered, as it is a condition, we know that we have another prolongata deadline, not another 5 months next year, but another year, and for that reason we are entering the land reform because it is important that we no longer say a million hectares or accidentally determine that in a year we will put a million hectares into operation, especially if we take into account that in 10 years under the existing 890 000 hectares of agricultural land that is owned by the Republic of Croatia only 260,000 hectares of some form of availability. So they will do everything in accordance with the new law and those laws that go into the package behind it, and that is the law on the membership, amendment and addition of the law that will allow the separation of the law on inheritance and all that will go, but also the measurements, means land-based correct procedures that must be completed in order to ensure that the situation on the ground, grantines, cadastres are consistent and enforceable. So it's a land package that comes and works, then it's going to solve this additional area in the ARCOD compared to the million and nine acres it's currently in the ARCOD. It's a rule book. We also showed this year for manufacturing 2011 that already at the end of the first quarter we started paying off if the legal obligation to pay the support was at 6 months, almost 50% of the commitments were paid as early as 26.3. Furthermore, most of the obligations were paid and these suggestions I heard from Mr. Cobankovic and Mrs. Nancy was in fact, I will once again explain. Of the 95,000 applicants, only about 6000 are those who have not been paid support. These are agricultural producers, crafts and companies which are much more in debt than the amounts they were supposed to receive for support. We're talking 100% and more amounts that were due. Twice they had the opportunity to reprogramme their obligations in the tax administration or were able to close their obligations and then they would be paid as such and that number had consumed many of them. At first, there were about 10, 11 thousand who did not receive support immediately in the first run but later when they reprogrammed their obligations to the state, according to the tax administration they were properly paid out. This will most likely be... compensation provided as such because it needs to be changed to the OBZ and some other things to really technically be done. The rural development programme, the leader of approach to measures 202, agri-environmental measures, are all things that will in some way speed up and improve the development of the rural landscape in a way that enables us, among other things, these laws. Dear colleague Vukbratović as well as you have well noticed that we have worked very and significantly on this agricultural law to give much more importance to the profession itself and to the good... which the profession and science, but also to the profession, applied the practical profession that fellow agronomists, veterinarians and all those who work and live in the agrarian could pass on to our agricultural producers, we have given them importance because for the first time agronoms will have as a profession their own chamber, but also the possibility of professional counselling and private advisory services and the greater and better importance of our agricultural advisory service as such which now has and controls, i.e. will have control and measures to monitor the integrated agricultural production that has been done only in part. They've been doing inspection services, and this is going to be systematic now, the way it's supposed to be, because we know what the importance of integrated production is. Speculative stock,... the markets are something I also think we've done in a quality way or if such things had happened either in ours whether a producer or a trader or someone, the consequences would have been borne by the state, the foam would have been paid by us as a state. In this way, by regulating in this form in the law, we have transferred this responsibility to whoever is going to do it, i.e. the existing opportunity to protect the interests and budgets of the state itself. I listened carefully to my colleague, Cobankovic, in front of the HDZ club, and I must agree with you, and in the opening presentation I highlighted everything that was good and was done well through negotiations and through an access contract, and there is a certain part of the job. Whether some things could have been even better and better quality, but compared to when we competed with the conditions that some countries had that were entering before us, I think there was a good job done. I am saddened that, throughout the sector, these things have not been prepared a little bit better so that we have also had the significant resources that we have had under the SAPARD and IPARD programme been much more used, much more developed, prepared, applied project that will withdraw 1.77%. In '10, '11. The year is an extremely small use and there is an extremely large space and this is what we work on every day, from the formation and work of all professional services at the Ministry, agencies, advisory services and the rest and in the first 9 months we already have 2.5 times the absorption of funds, almost another billion kuna is available to us in IPARD and there will be additional work. When we talk, I just need to look back at what you said, intervention 042. The livestock industry is currently the most exposed sector, the sector with the most problems and we are closely monitoring and trying to stop it with a number of measures, that is to change and help. How much... additional 042 intervention was, but it was a limited measure which ended at 11 months last year, and even since August was not paid at all. I paid it in the 1st and 2nd months as such, and our milk producers know it, as if under the current law they should receive a fee of 0.50% only next year for this production year, it is possible for us to pay 50 % of the assets and production already as some kind of advance, i.e. in this current 2012 year. We're talking about almost 30 million kunas based on the moon. When we talk about the decline of the number of farms, it's bad data, it's data that don't cheer, that's not good at increasing the number of cattle, or giving up production. But I think as you said, even though the numbers are a little different, not 58 grand in 2003, there were more. There were about 60 and a few thousand family holdings that taught milk at the reference laboratory when it was opened, and now we're talking about 12 grand and 800. But by the end of last year, in December, we only had 14,000 family economies that produced milk. It's a trend meaning, which isn't and isn't all happening in these 8.9 months as much as Jakovina runs the Ministry and his team. It is a trend that is simply as well as a trend that is not exclusively related to us, but we can look at the countries of the region and the countries of the European Union because that is how trends stand. We have prepared this measure, and it is part of this package of laws that is presented to you today. That I'm not going through that part right now except for the regional payment rights, the national payment rights to the national reserves,... to pay for extremely sensitive sectors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where we mentioned and marked that we also have specific payments. The specific payments shall be 10 % of the total envelope of the CAP. If we talk about 317.3m euros, it is a 37m-point 3 euro that will be used by power interventions for the most vulnerable and most sensitive sectors. Next year we speak about 103 or 105 million where we will try through such measures not only for dairy or milk production but also for... A sector which is problematic with such resources as we have been making in this context and in the context of over-excessing of amounts and envelopes and final amounts, we have found a way to intervene and help in this way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said I'd be brief, and this one's running away from me, don't run away, it's enough of your stuff. Maybe I should have really reacted more often. Watering funds - in 2003 8 thousand hectares irrigated, 2011. Nine thousand acres, 2011. 18 thousand acres. Nine thousand acres in eight years spent 586 million kuna. It's not exactly the fact that it's less invested, 100 million kunas this year in this government's irrigation system and this ministry is investing. In the following year, 200 million kunas are scheduled. When we talk about elementary disasters, we can't affect the climate change that's happening because they're something we can't influence. But we can do with a quality irrigation system all those areas where high-intensity cultures are, where high-income cultures, where production cycles are rounded up and where such specific productions are needed, the type of vegetables, fruit growing, vineyarding, olive growing, where we need to ensure that irrigation is possible. But we also have to provide consumables, i.e. we have farmers who will have these expensive systems that we make and attach and use and pay a certain fee for that use because it is a certain part of the investment. So that's where I'd disagree with you because if we're going to share these 576 then it turns out to be about 70 million a year, and I'm saying this year, and you know that there are almost 900 million kunas less available than you had last year in the budget. With such resources, however, we managed to secure and do a lot of things. And another much more important thing, which is to prevent such things is a completely different system of insurance in agriculture. We are talking about multi-risk policies, policies that will enable all users or active farmers, active farmers as they call them in the European Union in a way that will enable safe production. Not just like now, you had a budget and I have about 30 million to co-finance part of the insurance policy. This is generally a very low level of usability, i.e. the consumables that use that insurance policy. One Austria has 78% of agricultural production that is in the insurance system, Hungary over 50%. We'd better not talk about our data how low they are, in what way. So that's, that's two things where we see that they have to be regulated how they're going to prevent the negative effects of an elemental accident. We can intervene with some things as much as we can. And we put together a report and we went on and said that it was an intervention measure that was good, not only as aid but as the elimination of the gray market, we were talking about the intervention buy-in or horizontal measures when buying and storing mandarin and apples, grapes and olive oil, but the regulation of the market. This year we exported mandarin for 60 thousand tonnes, what kind of embryo is in the Republic of Croatia, of which 12 to 15 thousand hectares of thousands of tonnes remain on the Croatian market, the rest goes to export. This way, with this measure where we went with 0.80 lip per kilogram at the guaranteed ransom price of 3 kuna we made that no kilograms of mandarin is on the gray or black market. It's all in the VAT system. Yeah, he's got it, he's probably got it, but it doesn't usually pay off every one of them because he's got a ransom, he's got justice, and it's paid to the buyers. We gave, we can't because we're going under the CAP, and by direct payments we can't have that kind of payment anymore, but now that we've been able to intervene this year, it's also been an aid now given the elemental accidents especially with the apple and grape producers. Maybe just, just for a little while. I am sorry that there are no respected colleagues of the Czech Republic and colleagues of Grubisic we are both resident or fellow citizens, I think that some of the things that have been presented and in the very sight of the club have been rather unargumented or ignorant of the facts because when we talk about overlapping inspection controls a completely different story is the work of inspection services in the ministry, administrative bodies. These are administrative procedures on which solutions are issued, and the Agency for Payment in Agriculture is subject to administrative supervision, supervision of the use of support. We know that this is legally minimally 5%, we said that we want to be serious countries that we won't allow ourselves to have the experience that Bulgaria and Romania had, that control we'll go to a higher level, we won't be satisfied with just 5%, we'll check out more consumer support systems so that we don't have delegations coming in from the commission and then check us out and then we'll get a certain percentage of negative findings in the way we don't keep what our agricultural producers are supposed to stick to when we report support systems. ... very many of these papers with your suggestions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Chesek said we don't have a real strategy. Believe me, strategic documents are something to work on, and we know what the procedure is for drawing up a strategic document. I think it's very well known that for months it's already been working on the National Strategy, which is a rural development programme that includes the 2014-2020 period and will be on the government and here with you afterwards. This is a basic strategic document that will withdraw these significant funds of 333 million kuna per year. It was an observation why we use the name active farmer and over 230 thousand family economies in the Republic of Croatia? On the other hand, we have 90,000 applicants for support and we have 12 thousand of those who are... It is a measure that no longer joins the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's already a terrible gap between the number of what's registered and the one that consumes the support itself. I would like in that part that, or I hope, in fact, that in the form of constructive amendments something will come after this debate, and then we will be so obvious to them because this was actually more of a political or a reference to the recent local elections, which, as a matter of fact, had personally acted on me by a rather populist statement by the esteemed colleague Grubisic about us importing frozen meat from EU rules, it seems to me that he said so about the quality of meat. It's a six-month deadline, and we don't have it for a year. This is not EU practice. There you know what to follow, follow the health correctness of the product, follow the standard and quality and the one who declares and puts it on sale is responsible for what it puts. They don't have deadlines and there isn't that kind of speculation. It was on some other stuff, one rule that didn't mention the chicken meat rule where it was allowed to import chicken meat with... with 25% water, which is a production that is characteristic of Latin American countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we had 10,000 tons I mean chicken from Brazil. Brazilians so process their chicken that it is injected with water. We changed that, we changed that rule to 5%, which is a standard of EU quality. But you know what the problem is? That we don't have a reference laboratory in the Republic of Croatia that could control such meat. There have been a few remarks in this discussion regarding the failure of the data. No, I will be responsible for telling you that inspection services and in the case of illicit antibiotics 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th in the dragged test, but veterinary and other inspections that responded to meat and milk shipments at the border to BiH are doing their job well without creating a panic, without creating a problem they did the job according to the sublaws, they did their best to the rules. Those shipments were controlled the moment a quality non-compliance was observed and with what should be left. They're back. And this sender, that exporter, has been controlled for the next 10 entries very restrictively. If another repetition had been observed, it would have been banned from dating. But there's one thing we need to figure out right now, these 103 objects that have the permission to import into the Republic of Croatia, none of this license got back nine months. These are objects that have been importing for years and probably, not likely, but certainly have been such cases that inspection services have done well before, but fortunately we have never had any occurrence of disease, epidemic, or anything like that that would have been unquality in such a way that it could not have entered. I don't think writing some media about it might be like that with the sound of sensationalism, I don't think it's necessary for our citizens to create a problem that we don't eat and we don't have good and healthy food and safe food on our shelves and in our facilities. What's more important is that we start producing a lot more. That this problem we only have 6 to 8 products where we have self-sufficient production, two of which we have to export to raise it more and thus we don't get to buy something that may not be as good a quality as the food that's produced in us. Dear colleague Tyreli said a lot of nice and very commendable words about both the chamber and the professional counselling and the additional activities which I think is a very good step forward of this law and offers our possibility in essence to all the owners through various projects, have additional activities on their OPGs. The delay in reform – we work as fast as we can. It's very difficult in nine months to do something we may have had to do in the last 4.5 years. All that's good, which are good projects that can continue as such, we're just improving, what we're not trying to change reform. Late in passing this law, be careful this is a law that was quite important to prepare and do well. My associates, I'm talking about the level of assistants and chiefs of the sector, have repeatedly been on the route we've fixed, arranged, and sent as such to the government procedure and here with you. We are not late with the deadlines, the agency has exactly prescribed paying agencies, and until certain conditions are met to obtain accreditation for work. Unfortunately, with some things he's been late for a long time, they started moving back 3 or 4 months into FINA's premises, that contract was, the pre-contract was made a few months ago. 2 institutions that have not been able to do some things all these years and have come to the conclusion that in the next month two days of the 21 regional offices in which the paying agencies will be located will be moved 18. 3 for which the other institution has committed itself to be technically prepared, and we are talking about... Someone isn't just technically ready. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It'll be over by two months. The action plans will tell him when to enter, he won't be late for that part. Some things could have been done much better and much better, but well, the team that's there now, which is kind of motivated, to get everything we need to do, to do our utmost to do our best and trust me yes. Everything that goes for this is already the rules in the works, so on Friday, I hope you raise your hands and support these legal solutions, but on Saturday, people in the agency and people in the administrations will continue and finish some of the work on the rules and the rest that all that adjustment in the information section, which is important to us, and it's important to us because we said that in 3 months, we will start paying back the support in 1 month next year. Which never happened for the manufacturing year ahead, to start already with the amount of over a billion kuna payment support to make it... In the season our farmers could better and at lower prices obtain re-promaterials, better prepare for the upcoming spring sowing and for some way closing the obligations they have towards their suppliers and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Modulations, what we said about modulations, modulations are something we'll be able to reuse the moment we withdraw all the funds from 100% of their amount. Now in the first year, we get only 25% of the funding. I said in the opening explanation, the explanation that for production 2013 we will receive 700 million kuna in 2014, that is 25%. Next year, 30.35.40 and then we'll go 10. Modulations go then. I'd be happier if by now the modulations we had when we had from our own part were much more nuanced, if it wasn't just at the level of 2 100 000, or 100 grand, I don't think we could have put together much better in class, but we won't, we won't regret it. I have not noticed that you have made any remarks on the law itself, so I cannot look back. Perhaps in that story that insufficient investment in municipal infrastructure, in my ministry is currently a water economy in the Republic of Croatia 1,266 million kuna from projects throughout Croatia, water and sewers are being done. I'll repeat 1 266 million in all units of local self-government. Projects for which they have permits, for which they have... performers who are already being done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only in aquaculture and freshwater fishing invests 600 million kuna. In the mariculture, an additional 550 million kunas are already being done. Food, processing, forestry could count, so I'm going to come up with very large amounts, so my grades aren't quite correct enough not to work or do what they're supposed to do. And what we said, then, I have to stay, and I will unfortunately not be able to be on the pumpkin even though I got from my dear colleague Boris a call like that, but maybe I'll say the good news for the end. Buća's oil couldn't be because the EU didn't recognize it as such, but what you can do as... Mayor, i.e. all units of local self-government can do and regional self-government can be decided over the next 3 years to provide support for specific products that are traditionally for your part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The application is until 01.03.2013 if you decide as a city or as a county on such a kind of support. Gentlemen, once again, 4 or 5 things have been identified as strategic goals of this ministry, 2 are not directly related to this one, for 1 I've been beat up by my colleague Shima, we're talking about land reform and we're talking about the use of funds, but the rest of them, and that's the need to join a producer's organization and... cooperatives, market arrangements, support arrangements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, and that's why these three laws are going to help us improve that part and determine that part of the strategy, so here's another thank you, and I think I've tried to give it as much information as possible in a short time as possible. I hope I get the rest in the proposals, or in the amendments, and we'll be clear about that. I thank you, Mr. President, for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17912	Thank you very much. It was an exhaustive presentation by the Minister of Agriculture and the presentation of the reported 2 replicas. He is the first respected representative of Peter Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17913	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I've known for a long time, always beware of those who say I won't be long. But well, the minister really elaborated us and tried to answer the mass of our questions. I'm answering with a replica because I don't think he answered one fundamental question very important. I said no doubt that we would support the law, but I also talked about something that I believe is not in the right way negotiated with the European Commission and which could lead to certain problems, which is the question of including 2012 in this law, you know. From the first article to those transitional provisions where he says that some other things will be regulated by the rules which I don't think is right and that it won't be well looked at by the commission. Another thing that is far more important than this is that if there are some changes for 2012 there will be some changes related to certain procedures, and unfortunately it can be what would be more catastrophic, and that is not to end the process of accreditation of the paying agency. If the process of accreditation of the paying agency does not end, we will not be able to withdraw the financial resources which unfortunately happened to these some countries that have become EU members. Then you know when we look from the point of view of agriculture if we're going to be a member of the EU and we're not going to use the funds better if we're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17914	Thank you very much. Next line, and you'll do it right away. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17915	Thank you, Mr. President. So I think I also explained in the opening statement that this law includes two periods of production 2012 and production 2013. The production in 2013 is defined by law, and the regulation in question will continue to apply for 2013. The very application procedure for incentive and the rest has not changed in this section. But with these provisions, we put you in the amounts that we put 2 billion 727 million total amount of 373 million euros just so that we could withdraw all that or that the commission could see that we had predicted in our budget, or that in 2014 we could allocate 20% of the funding from the second pillar in the first pillar. What we want and this way we've done, we've actually made it the height of direct envelope payments and national... sectors are something that can be corrected. Look, we know how much the money is 373 million if we're going to say right now that we're giving the dairy sector a ratio to livestock, then we have to sort of correct it in some other part to what we can do, but it has nothing to do with accreditation. It's a much bigger problem that we take and that we have an observation and that we will now have on their commission that we are too attached to an information house that makes us a complete software in a way that is not the most perfect. But it's not something for nine months then that you know best how many contracts we have or how many contracts we have with King that fully informatively supports us throughout the system. So in that part, we made a contract and some changes, so we said that now some things become our intellectual property and other things, but simply by limiting or one of those remarks that will be. We can't change that, but what we can change and what we're going to do, and we're definitely going to do everything we can to make this accreditation work, so you can be convinced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17916	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17917	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't mean to rephrase that more correction of the incorrect alleged or false interpretation of the minister but given the recording of this session... that there would not be anything left not written I was talking about meteorological conditions which farmers must not in any way affect their work so as to remove or irrigate which is very important precisely because of the farmers themselves I was talking about. I didn't say that you didn't invest or that you didn't invest in it, but I think it's crucial and that you should insist on it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17918	Thank you very much. I think we have successfully brought the debate to an end, the debate on the text of the law of one, the other and the third. Final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 168 is over. Final proposal of the Agricultural and Rural Support Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 180's over, too. Final draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 177 is over. We'll vote on all three laws when the conditions are met. We'll stop working now. We start tomorrow at 9.30. I expect you to face new challenges in the debate at the Croatian Parliament. We begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 174. Good night, everybody good. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the markets in agricultural products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 168. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honorable Minister of Tihomir Jakovina to plead. One amendment to the Legislative Committee. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17920	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The applicant shall adopt the amendment to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-17-0.u17921	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, with 118 votes and 1 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation of the Market for Agricultural Products, are in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
