ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20782	Thank you very much. So before you there is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. It is a law that we are amending even though it has not yet entered into force, so it should enter into force on 1.01.2013. There are several reasons for the change. The first is to comply with certain other regulations that have come into force not only with us but also at EU level. The second is that during this preparation we have seen the need... We primarily went through the analysis of the burdens of the courts, the way we work, and then we saw that one of the essential elements that are regulated by law is the regulation of drug possession issues for personal use. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] So whether it's a crime or a crime. This bill moves this from the criminal sphere to the offence as it was arranged by '97. A year. There's a lot of reasons for that. One is that we want to enable a more effective fight against drugs by liberating capacity, so by moving these conditionally said easier forms that actually deal with victims, rather than actual, so not to people who are a real problem, which are dealers, manufacturers, etc. So, at this point in time, by moving this section into the criminal sphere, we release significant capacity not only financially but also human to deal with the most difficult forms of drug abuse. The other thing is we also have a violation at this point of principle not bis and I go which was found not only through the verdict in the Maresti case but also by Tomašević on such cases because we have the same act punished through the offence and through the criminal act. In addition, we believe that a person who consumes for personal use is primarily a victim. That through the Criminal Law which now not only enables it to mean this fine but also allows certain other measures to be given and replaced by work for general good and treatment measures etc. that much better effect will be achieved compared to these, by moving it into the breaking sphere. You've all had a State's Attorney's Office report here and you've voted on it and you've actually seen how in practice and dealing with these acts, and that's more reason to go into this kind of solution. The simple misdemeanor procedure is faster, more flexible, it will better address the victim's problem than it is a criminal case, and we will avoid what is unfortunately often happening, and this is the stigmatisation of persons who are actually victims, but by introducing criminal records, they are eliminated later from the possibility of employment in the state service, etc. The other thing is that we've noticed that it wasn't in the law so far it's a criminal order, so moving now from a felony to a criminal illegal organization of these illegal gambling games to happiness. So, it's not about having someone at home who's going to hit a white card with this bill, but unfortunately there are illegal casinos, they're not just a budget problem, but they're primarily a problem because there's a whole series of criminal activities going on, and the resources we have available to fight it through the current arrangement, so through the breach aren't enough. That's why we want to put it in the criminal sphere. We'll fight it more effectively. We consider this a great evil, I say not just for gambling, but for all the other illegal activities involved. Next, we are in line with the recommendations of the December 2011 GRECO, meaning in the definition of bribery. Now it's also a bribe when it goes to a third person, and not only the one who offers and promises bribes so we expand the description and through this we will be sure to influence better the repression of corrupt crimes. The next thing we've seen is that this penal code that needs to be implemented is not regulated by the code, so in general, a new concept of these traffic offences is being introduced. There's a hanging ride, so a whole series, it's a different approach. Now it's a crime and some behavior, and it's not just a crime when it comes to consequences like before. However, we have noticed that there is no such ban on such behaviour at sea, so we are changing here so that ship traffic will be involved. So if someone's wild at sea as well as on the road, it's a crime, so the ride is forbidden on the road but at sea. It doesn't matter just because of the tourist season, because of tourists coming, but because of all of us and unfortunately because of the increase in such incidents at sea. This is what we're trying to contain. Next, not to report a crime committed. So we think that the law that we're changing is wrongly disfellowshipping lawyers and confessors in a way that in certain cases has ruled out a confessional secret as a reason for the release, therefore, as a reason for the absence of a criminal offence. So we're getting it back now. So now the confession secret, the attorney's secret, is respected by this law, which so far has not been with this which was due to enter into force in 2013. So, so far, the confessor's lawyer has been criminally responsible, and we now alter that they do not respond when it means they do not give up the crime committed, whose knowledge they took during the confession or during the conduct of a lawyer's or any other profession that is so determined by law. We're changing one thing that we've seen in practice that causes a common problem with crimes at the expense of children, so sexual crimes means antiquity will move from the age of the victim. Namely, it has often happened and happens in practice that when the victim is able to report it, when she becomes adult and realizes that actually the limitation deadlines have started much earlier and that persecution cannot be conducted precisely because of the expiry of the limitation deadlines. So we're changing that in those cases of age-old age. We also introduce the non-execution of court decisions to the special responsibility of the servant and responsible person, so it is a crime to change the definition of a close person, so it is now expanding because we have seen that it is not only a marriage partner but that it should be extended and that these are persons who are very often committing crimes, and so far the protection provided by this law was not enough. So these are the brief amendments to the laws that are before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20783	Representatives of the Croatian Labour Club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20784	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. Our proposal to amend the Penal Code is much shorter than what the Government has proposed and applies to only one provision of the Penal Code, which is Article 132. I will remind, in this article that should take effect in 1.1 next year, the crime of non-payment of wages is regulated in such a way that it will not be considered as a criminal offence of non-payment of wages or part of wages unless the employer has the possibility to make available financial resources on the account, it means that if the jury is blocked or the lack of financial resources in the account of the employer that have not been incurred with the aim of avoiding payment of salaries. This Article 132 replaces Article 114 of the existing law in which the issue of non-payment of wages has been regulated in a slightly different way. However, this provision of the third article in the section that says the lack of financial resources in the account of employers who did not result from the avoidance of wages, requires proof of intent, so it should be demonstrated that the employer was unable to pay the salary, but that it was not his goal nor for any other reason he does not have the money in the account. The fact that some employer does not have money in the account is not necessarily the result of his current financial and economic situation because he could spend that money on everyone else, not the business of pulling out company money, for example, for the payment of loans he took for 5 or 15th investment, and mortgaged a factory or facility in which workers work. In this regard, therefore, proving the intention of non-payment of wages or between the existing Article 114i of this new 132th does not make any difference. I also remind you that the provision on the obligation of employers when they do not pay the salary or part of the salary must give workers a certificate or a bill of unpaid salary or part of the salary laid down in the Labour Act in its article 85 years long. And the truth is, it's Article 294. The labour law not issuing such a certificate regulated as a violation. However, the amendment of the Law on the implementation of the law on money implementation has given rise to new importance, since it theoretically opened up the possibility for workers to start an executive procedure to collect their claims from the employer, and in those days, some media have, in turn, announced in large headlines a revolutionary change that workers will now be able to collect their claims through the exercise, which is of course not true or not necessary, because it would only be valid if the employers of the certificates were to issue. In the application of Article 114 of the existing Regulation, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are I recall that a few months ago when we discussed the State's Attorney's Office Report, it was stated that the DORH had received and rejected all 177 non-payment applications. So all the applications received by the DORH under Article 114 were rejected because, I quote the state lawyer Bajic: in Croatia, the case law imposed the need to prove that the pay had been disbursed by the employer. In the absence of an obvious entry into the DORH court proceedings, the DORH applied a line of minor resistance and all such applications under Article 114 refused. Let's go back to this definition that it's not a criminal offence if the employer doesn't have financial resources in his account. According to the latest data in Croatia, there are 38676 legal persons who employ 41336 employees, which means that by one legal person comes 0.93 employees, which, of course, immediately indicates that the largest number of these legal persons are actually those legal persons who do not have any employees. No employee. In craftsmen and craftsmen, the data suggests that there are 34717 employees in the blockade. When these two figures on the number of employees are summed up at this time due to blocked pay accounts, they do not receive 66265 workers. Only on one basis referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 132, the inability to make available money on the account. Which means that the other part of the provision or that there is not enough money, how many such legal and natural persons who are not in a blockade and who do not have enough financial means to pay their wages, that information does not have any body, no organisation, institution, agency, office or anyone else, so that they can give an assumption of how many workers do not receive the salary because the employer in the account does not have enough money. I add this to the data that back in the nine months, following official data, the number of workers receiving minimum wage ranged between 5% and 6%, which means about 54000 employees. And if we count the 66,000 that don't get paid because of the blockade with these 54000 that are on the minimal and the unknown number of people who don't get paid because the employer doesn't have any money on the account, we're going over the 100,000 figure and we're approaching the 150 grand. Which means the right of those workers under the Labour Act and the law of the Law on the procedure of conduct over money, unless they have a certificate of unpaid pay or part of pay, in order to be able to initiate the collection procedure by means of an executive procedure, which does not mean that they will immediately collect their claims. So, if you were wondering what number of people are concerned at this point, whose fate is directly affected by this provision in Article 132, that's about 150 000. If the financial crisis in Croatia expands or remains on the current level, the figure will remain the same or will grow. And what are we proposing now? If the Penal Code has already made an exception that it is not a criminal offence to pay for a blocked account or a lack of money to oblige employers to issue a certificate of unpaid salary or part of a salary, and if they do not, therefore, do not pay the salary and do not give confirmation of the unpaid salary that it is then a criminal offence, then it is a criminal offence. Therefore, this law, by decision of the Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, when the law was passed, amnesty comes from the criminal liability of an employer who, for objective reasons, does not pay the salary. But why amnesty of criminal responsibility if they do not issue a certificate which they are obliged to issue under the Labour Act, and particularly important because of the Law on the Executive Procedure of Money. The next problem is this definition of a lack of funds in the account. How long can this situation last, and in order to accept normal behavior one month, two months, six months, one year, and the worker who seeks that salary in a non-blocking company, but the employer answers that he would pay the salary, but there is no money he would have to prove according to this provision that the jury account is empty or minimum with the aim and intent of the employer that it is precisely why the money in the account does not have to avoid paying the salary. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Penalty law. By the way, I also note the problem of paying the billing and payment of contributions to pension and health insurance in these same cases where not only workers in particular in pension insurance are damaged, but also states that lose a large amount of money both in the health and pension system. We believe that the minimum of our responsibility and obligation towards employees in Croatia is to protect them from those employers who refuse to give certificates, if they already have no money for non-payment of salaries, a minimum that simply cannot be passed. In her statement, the government wrote that she felt that criminal responsibility must be the last means of sanctioning and relying on the violation provision of the Labour Act. And I would now like to get the information, perhaps the minister has or may quickly obtain back a year, two, three, or five how many employers have misrepresented for not issuing an unpaid salary certificate, how much the official duty inspection has filed to the Court of Justice, how many convictions the Criminal Court has made and how much punishment has been charged because the sentence has been provided for in the Labour Act between 61 and 100,000 kuna. The minimum number of applications, the minimum number of criminal sanctions imposed, was precisely on the area of non-confirmation. And after the amendments to the Executive Procedure Act on money flashes the survey on the ground, we received a feedback response that somewhere up to 10% of employers issue a certificate of unpaid wages or part of the salary up to 10%. These 90% don't even do that. Is the certificate of unpaid pay a powerful asset in the hands of the collectors? Yes, extremely important because it is an executive procedure, even when a bankruptcy procedure is opened or before a bankruptcy settlement as a new institute puts that certificate and the fact that an executive procedure is launched by workers in a better position. In defence of workers' rights to collect what they have earned in defence of the rights of workers, to discipline employers who are so boastful that they do not respect the provisions on issuing the certificate, we must not flee from that last asset nor quote the Government's opinion as the last means of introducing order in the Republic of Croatia. And that objection or the principle that the same act cannot be tried twice, that something cannot at the same time be a violation and a criminal offence, which is, for example, these changes that the Government is proposing to the addicts, and here is easy to resolve if the non-confirmation of the certificate is introduced in Article 132. The Penal Code is then deleted from the Labour Act, paragraph 53, if I am not mistaken in Article 294 where this is an offence and it will only be a criminal offence. And we couldn't suggest that until the Parliament decided that this would be a criminal offence. Yes, we agree there must be no crime or crime. Let it be a crime, and later on from the Labour Act, we delete it as a violation. And this is not blackmailing employers, this is not an act against employers because the law has already allowed them to in these two cases of non-payment of salaries is not a criminal offence, but that it must be a criminal offence not to issue a certificate. And why are we taking it out on you? Because that's not going to create a bigger problem for employers right now, because their debt to workers exists, it's created and they acknowledge it. Now we're on the move to regulate how first we're going to stimulate employers to issue that confirmation. And I'm convinced when it becomes a crime that the number of employers who will issue those certificates will be 90%, not 10%. And secondly, to stimulate them that the other part of the provision that they do not have enough money in the account is used as little as possible as an excuse for non-payment of wages. And I end up next, every time the question is that workers are entitled to something that isn't disputed and what's earned, so this isn't about fees, goddesses, jubilee prizes, travel expenses, but about pay, part of pay and severance. Only those three categories are subject to this provision. If, therefore, we are unable to protect workers in such a way that there is the strongest sanction against employers who do not comply with this law where we will be able to do so. And experience so far tells us that criminal sanctions weren't enough to make order against employers and workers. And I wonder if it's possible for the state to care, and for all of us, whether workers will settle their labour rights, their wages or not? Especially in a crisis like this. We all witnessed together a few months ago and the arrival of people in Mark's square and other squares in Croatia, which pointed to one and the same, worked 3, 4, 5, 6 months and did not get paid. And we all go over it as if it were an elementary accident caused by a higher force of nature, not an irresponsible behavior of employers. Such a provision does not require any funding in the state budget and there is no cost of the state. This provision only has one effect, two. First, we do the order and we separate employers who treat both workers and the state correctly and in accordance with the laws, and on the other hand we separate those who deliberately do not pay the wages. I assure you that there are a large number of employers who use such a situation and such legal provisions, abuse false excuses and do not pay salaries to mix with that capital on the financial market. Our entire analysis and control is still too weak to figure out how it happened and why there's no money on the jury account. Because we made it possible to open up a series of daughter companies, topping money from one company to another and to the same owner and to the same owner of all the companies in which there were no employees there was money on the account, only those companies, only those companies in which they were registered, and the employees had no money on the gyro-account or they were going into a blockade, and that would result in this condition that this was not a criminal offence. It is therefore a minimum requirement to assist workers who work and do not receive wages and the truth about the maximum requirement for the state to sanction such behaviour by means of the strongest means contrary to the principle of equality of labour and capital. I want to believe that no one has ever made this proposal, and he was being discussed by colleagues and colleagues who were not in the last session and at the moment when the Penal Code was passed. Yes, provision of Article 132. So, it's not a new moment, it's not that it wasn't present when the law was passed, but we took advantage of the opportunity and our right to reopen this as a topic, it's a united debate, we're giving the possibility that, in our proposal, the government might, in a different way, install this provision with one goal only to help people, when they can't get the money directly from their employers to get what we promised them, confirm as a final ID and a final procedure that all the proposings swore was now good, reasonable and that each debtor would be able to pay. If every debtor, because we have said a debt is paid by the sea and everyone who owes their obligations has to pay off, and if we bring it down to the executive procedure and we are then for these people who have their claims from the known who owes them, we must enable them to collect their claims in the executive procedure. These are the same people who are subject to an executive procedure for non-payment of municipal fees, television subscriptions, non-payment of parking tickets, non-payment of electricity bills, water, gas and heating that there, in that section against these people, the executive procedure will function impeccably. However, when they try to collect their claims from their employers come to only one problem, they do not have a document on the salary bill that would be an element for the final payment. Confirmation, as she looks, what data must be in it. It's not about any newspaper either, or it had to exist in accordance with the Labour Act. Keeping records of these certificates is also already prescribed under the regulations. And finally, if Mr. Bajic were here, he could probably tell you that such a change in the Penal Code and their state attorneys would greatly facilitate the implementation and application of this Penal Code. There's a colleague and colleagues, those are our arguments. If this is not enough to be accepted, then we only send one message, we lied to the workers when we told them that by confirming the unpaid salary through the executive procedure they would be able to collect their claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20785	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the first club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20786	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is about continuing to speak to Mr. Lesar, it's about justice and justice. I will talk about this second proposal after a united debate on the amendment law and amendments to the Penal Code in the first reading before Minister Milenic spoke of what is changing in the law that should take effect after the new year. And this change of law that hasn't yet entered into force confirms that only permanent change is. Changes mean the law, someone will object that has not yet entered into force, but what is not good should be changed, and it certainly shouldn't be an objection to the government and the minister of justice. However, the changes the Government proposes certainly deserve a public debate, they certainly deserve a thorough debate in the Croatian Parliament because a deniable or affirmative response to some of the amendments is certainly not easy to bring. Consistent with other legal regulations is absolutely certain that no one will say no to that harmonisation. There are two provisions, two changes which, both as a representative and as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, are attention but also issues that I may not have a complete answer to. It's like we used to say decriminalization of easy drugs. The possession under this proposal of easy drugs for personal use ceases to be a criminal offence and it becomes an offence. So this proposal will no longer banish the Penal Code and the Law on drug abuse. However, the question is what is the amount of drugs for personal use, easy drugs for personal use, ask all police officers who deal thoroughly with their business how they can at some point and by what criteria they will assess what is for personal use, and what is not for personal use, when they raise criminal charges and when they report consummation to the judge for violations. Then the question is quite certain that the consummation is a victim, but often these consummations, frequent consumptions of easy drugs become also not only victims but those who violate and who will violate this new Penal Code because they will become well known that they are recruited into dealers. The fine of community service is certainly adequate for a joint. Remember that a young man from Istria got me a year in prison for owning a joint. At the same time, we see in the Croatian judiciary a very unfair punishment when people who have committed far greater crimes or misdemeanors are either forgiven or given parole. So you can't do it twice on one occasion, it's the legislator's motive that possession of easy drugs doesn't become both a felony and a felony. It's only a matter of criteria, a matter of court practice. And now the case-law will say that most of those who owned the minimum amount of drugs and who should be punished under current law for being released by the court and have been reported in violation or rejected entirely. It's also a question of drug addict treatment. It's a question of the treatment system. Is the Croatian system of treatment addicts easy and then, of course, hard drugs good? Is methadone therapy good therapy? In what way to criminally punish users of easy drugs and how to prevent them from turning into dealers and not turning them into consumers of heavy drugs. Another concern arises in the provision of undeclared criminal offences when it comes to legal and confessional secrecy. Here I'm asking if this means that canonical and world law is evened out, put in the same plane in a country that's secular. If so, it is probably due to a contract with the Holy Table, then the provision is anti-constitutional because the Constitution says that Croatia is a secular state. The question is whether a priest should report whether a priest should answer when he knew that a crime was planned, when he knew that the one he was planning to kill, planned to commit another crime, planned a terrorist act, when the wider community was threatened, when the lives of citizens were threatened. What about that, how to react to that? Does this Penal Code answer that question? So one is committing a crime and the other is planning a crime. I hope that on these matters, Mr. Minister will give us answers and will explain to us what is meant by the decree that the priest did not commit a criminal offence unless he reported the cases I was talking about. All this other thing that the Penal Code suggests, and let's say for the organisation of gambling that was previously regulated as a violation, this amendment has shifted to criminal law matter, this would mean that appropriate provisions of the law on gambling must also be amended in order to avoid that double incrimination. A provision that speaks of the savagery of the sea, and most often rich people, through the night of enriched tycoons, is also a crime, as is the crime of rampaging on the roads, absolutely certain that it will be accepted and that it falls one step forward. And finally, about what Mr. Lesar said on behalf of the club, I will read only about the section relating to the amendment of the Penal Code proposed by the Croatian Labourists, a passage from the leaflets shared by the trade unions here in front of the Croatian Parliament, which supported our proposal. Determining criminal responsibility for an employer who has not issued a written bill on unpaid wages is a necessary tool for the judiciary to deal more effectively with this sad Croatian phenomenon that the state has failed to resolve for a long time. It is useless to account for non-payments of salaries prescribed the effect of an executive document if the employer does not hand it over to the unfortunate person or the unrepentant without pay and does not do so in time. Finally, the one who deprives the worker and his family of their wages also deprives them of their existence. It is therefore necessary to establish a system that will ensure that a further violation of that man’s right does not even occur to him. Dear MPs and MPs, if you do not support this initiative of Croatian Labourists, you will find it difficult to tell anyone that you advocate against the inhumane possibility of non-payment of salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20787	Thank you, too. Next is the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative of Peđa Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20788	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, a few weeks ago in this House, we discussed amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on BUSKOK and other laws which are considered criminal legislation in a broad sense. Today, we have before us the amendment and addition of the central law and that of the Penal Code which regulates the weight, if not almost all criminal acts sanctioned in the Republic of Croatia. A little over a year ago, the parliament passed a new Penal Code, a Penal Code that represents the evolution of the new modern criminal legislation adopted in the Republic of Croatia in 1997. This Penal Code is a fruit of change, a tendency in both legal theory and legal practice. It is the fruit of the result of 15 years of application of the current Penal Code. It leaves what is good and changes what has been shown to be bad or that needs to be improved. However, the law has shown itself in this year's broad debate on it has had several details, several technical issues have more and fewer technical matters to be solved. Although this is about the number of articles of a large bill, it is only in its large part a technical change in almost everything but something, and this is about where this law is not technical, but above all a fundamental change is a new approach to sanctioning the use of intoxicating drugs and, above all, that part of which is considered to be used for personal use, or for personal use. I'll remind you. Until now when someone consumed one joint or another intoxicated drug he was very strictly sanctioned for it. Police would arrest him based on such treatment, the state's attorney's office was informed. The state's attorney's office ordered further investigations. After that, the indictment was written. The defendant's proposal was referred to the court, the debate was scheduled. The debate was attended by the court, the state's attorney, the defender, and the verdict was passed. In addition to sanctioning individuals, we included a whole, practically an entire repressive apparatus of the state to sanction someone for burning one joint. I personally believe, and so do we in the SDP that such a thing was wrong. And that's why we're going with this proposal that doesn't legalize easy drugs or any other drugs. They don't even decriminalize. The use of drugs for personal use shall only be transferred from one sphere to another, from criminal law to law enforcement. Why is that good? It was for this reason that I had previously stated that taking one piece of drugs does not trigger an entire state-run repressive apparatus, but also for other reasons. For example, alcohol is just as deadly by the body and human health as marijuana. Some would say even more devastating. but for drinking one beer, one vodka or so. People don't get sanctioned. In fact, if we watch commercials on TV, they're encouraged to do it. On the other hand, the consummation is being processed, stegmatized as criminal proceedings are being conducted against it he will not be able to be employed anywhere in the Republic of Croatia, and until then, if we say that addiction is a disease, and today everyone agrees that addiction is then punishable by his, her illness. Is that fair? It's not. However, trends in our neighbouring European Union countries have shown that whatever country has reached for this solution as proposed today has shown excellent results. For example, in Portugal, the number of addicts has been reduced from one decade to 50,000 in a period of time. Many addicts were much more willing to seek health care because of the termination of the Stigmatisation, so that there was a significant reduction in HIV-positive persons, or new HIV-positive persons, amongst the addicts. In the Czech Republic, which implemented a similar solution several years ago in its legislation, there was not only a reduction in HIV-positive people and people with hepatitis C, but the Czech Republic, let's be honest not only because of this but also because of other health measures today, a country in the European Union with a minimum number of HIV positive and hepatitis C positive persons among the addicts. Therefore, the application of such measures which are no longer sanctioned in criminal law by persons who use intoxicating drugs exclusively for personal use has very beneficial effects. So, no measure so far has prevented children from using drugs. However, the solution we implemented in 1997 has only shown that the old one is still valid – the forbidden fruit is sweeter. And that is why the SDP supports this amendment to the Penal Code. With regard to the proposal to amend the Penal Code proposed by colleagues from the SDP Labour Club party, such a proposal cannot be supported at this time. In fact, we believe that the protection of workers as regards the issue of a certificate of unpaid part of the salary is sufficiently ensured through breaking legislation in which not only the employer is sanctioned as a legal person but the sanctioning and sanctioning of the natural person, i.e. the person responsible in the employer, and with such penalties which enable not only financially, means punishment in the pocket but also if the responsible person does not pay for such a sentence to a prison. So at this point, and in accordance with what the minister has said, that is, the other representatives of the ministries by committees, we feel that it would not be useful, meaningful to adopt such a bill, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20789	Thank you, Your Honor. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first is the replica of the respected representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20790	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin. I can't agree with your exposure for some simple reasons, it's good to have the right to a replica, so we'll hear what we're really different about. You were saying that, in fact, you were comparing alcohol and marijuana. However, this assembly also stressed that the current major problem among young people is synthetic drugs. So drugs that even our society can't determine whether they're official drugs or not. And according to whether anyone will be deleted from the criminal record, it will therefore be recorded in the criminal record. ... that from the court's point of view, it's been determined whether or not someone's been using drugs, so that the intoxicating means are actually being transferred to the direct observation of a police officer. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Me and as an agent, but as a parent, he's worried about something else. On what grounds will this policeman who finds a man suspected of being under the influence of intoxicating funds determine whether it is a crime to go through one procedure, or whether it is an offence, so he will go through another procedure? So I think that's the fundamental thing that we here in the debate need to determine here today. That's what I'm interested in, and that's why I'm interested in your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20791	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20792	Thank you. I'll start at the back of your line, and that's a matter of police work. I believe, however, I'm sure that our officers after years and years of work and experience are much more directed to whether a certain amount of drugs that someone has with them is intended for personal use or for further distribution and reselling. In fact, such a thing is often controlled through other ways, e.g. as the drugs are packaged, is there, in addition, any aid such as microgram scales, etc. in the apartment. So our officers know exactly which way to go. And besides, your replica here has been declassified because so far, the state's attorney had to decide on the basis of the information he has on whether it was owned and punished under Article 173(1) or whether it was intended for sale when it was punished under Article 173(2). Penalty law. And as for the relationship between marijuana, synthetic drugs and alcohol, of course, no drugs for the organism, and especially the young organism is not good. But you can't say that drugs are more dangerous, more destructive, more harmful than alcohol. See traffic accident statistics, see crime statistics committed under the influence of alcohol and intoxicating drugs. The more dangerous it is, the more destructive it is, the more it destroys our society? All experts who care about addiction will tell you the same thing – alcohol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20793	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20794	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of the coat of arms, first of all, this amendment and the addition of the Penal Code is not our European obligation. The Council of Europe's Framework Decision states that national legislation is given jurisdiction to introduce a distinction in our legal system whether it will be a criminal offence when it comes to the possession of drugs for its own use or for a violation. In my view and in our view, a greater impact would be achieved if it remained in the sphere of crime, but not a crime with a suspended sentence because of those arguments about the overcrowding of Croatian prisons and everything we had in the laws before here in the Croatian Parliament, I believe that we would at least achieve the effect of a warning on the fact that such a person is in a position to consume drugs as it is said here for his own use. What we've achieved with a criminal sentence, i.e. The fine someone can pay? Are we sure that this limit for our own use is so far from being widely used in view of the great dangers and behaviour of young people, primarily young people today in society, conditions of general apathy, unemployment, crisis and everything else that definitely affects the behavior of young people? Here, in the light of the law, it says that in modern criminal law as a new lifestyle, both drug use in personal use and drinking, alcohol, prostitution that this goes beyond the sphere of the severe punishment rather than that of such penalties in the new and modern international criminal law. We here in Croatia still need to consider whether at this time we are really, in view of all the circumstances in which we currently live, ready for such a step that will certainly be at the expense of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20795	Thank you, too. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20796	Thank you. Well, my colleague and I agree completely. This law is not our European obligation, it is our civilization obligation. We don't do this because someone makes us do it, but because we think it's right. The countries I called for in my presentation were not chosen by accident. It is the countries that are similar to us in terms of Portugal in the Mediterranean circle, and in terms of the Czech Republic after a circle of the former communist, socialist countries from which we come. In both countries, this reform has achieved beneficial effects both in the prevention of drug use on the example of Portugal and in the health protection of users, consumers. So, all the countries have shown that the moment that only use, what's called the lifestyle shifts from criminal to criminal sphere, people who use intoxicating drugs are willing to admit it, they're willing to get involved in treatment programmes because they have a feeling, they have the impression that in that case such a programme will not bring them anything bad, but only good. And I'm going to repeat again why this is a civilization obligation. We said addiction was a disease. If addiction is a disease, why, besides that disease that he has, which is not easy for him or his family to punish additionally through criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20797	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20798	A fellow coat of arms issue of non-payment of wages and non-procuring certificates is not the subject of breaking legislation but the Labour Act so far. But what's the difference between the model so far and the one we're proposing. When an employer pays a fine of 100 grand for not giving a certificate, the worker won't get a certificate. He's got 20 workers owe every 10 grand that's 200 grand, pays the fine 100 grand and he still has 100 grand left, he's got another 100 grand. And this proposal substantially changes things because of Article 132, paragraph 4, which provides if the employer subsequently pays the salary, and we propose a supplement or issue a certificate of unpaid wages can be released. So our provision stimulates the employer that even at the time of the initiation of the criminal proceedings, or pays the salary or issues a certificate and then there will be no continuation of the prosecution. The aim, therefore, is to threaten that it is a criminal offence to stimulate the employer to issue a certificate or pay the salary and thus avoid sanctions, punishment. Therefore, you must also see paragraph 4 of Article 132 that we are also supplementing it and allowing at the time of the initiation of the procedure to give the employer a chance to either pay or issue a certificate and avoid punishment. Our ultimate goal is for the worker to get confirmation or pay, not for the employer to be punished. An employer's sentence does not benefit the employer any of the criminal or criminal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20799	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20800	Thank you. My colleague, Lesar, misdemeanors in the Labour Act are breaking legislation. We don't have a criminal code that would unite all crimes like the Penal Code. They are in one law, and as such they represent breaking legislation. However, I could agree with you personally that it might be appropriate to introduce such provisions into the Penal Code, but not in the form in which they are proposed. This is a drastic measure to punish non-confirmation with a sentence of up to three years as an example of counterfeiting an I.D. Furthermore, I also believe that it is not relevant to adopt such a criminal act if at all it is to be adopted by the gona on official duty, but only on the proposal of a damaged person. All in all, infringement provisions in the Labour Act very strictly sanction exactly what you're looking for. And I'm going to do it one more time, not just for the responsible person in the employer, but for the employer himself. So we have two fines. We have a fine for an employer from 60 to 100 thousand kuna and up to 15 thousand kuna for a responsible person. Given our legal rules on the replacement of fines by a prison sentence, that means 50 days in prison. But the second is, but I'll really agree with you there, the other thing is application. That's exactly what we need to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20801	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Now it is the club of representatives of the HNS and respected representative Nada Turina Đuric. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20802	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, I'll say we'll support the motions to amend the Penal Code. I would not be going into moralizing here because it often enters into debates of morality over generally law-making, and especially here the Penal Code on this matter is interesting, but I will say quite rationally that these changes should primarily lead to the discharging of courts from criminal proceedings for some of the changes offered in relation to drug abuse, above all. And most importantly, it is necessary to avoid double punishment or double persecution and the basis of the criminal law, which has so far been the case, and for the same act committed. So far, we have been treating drug abuse or possession of intoxicating drugs for personal use and throughout the long years of the application of such a law that we have achieved. In fact, none of the unfortunately indicators regarding the consumption of the number of drug users are in any significant decline, and it is obvious that as a society, we have not managed to deal with this problem through the Criminal Law. Why? Because simply sanctioning through such rather long-term and often unsuccessful processes of course did not produce any results, and these people who have been prosecuted mean the consummation of intoxicating drugs that they owned for their own use were most often in these processes, and by punishment they have been increasingly entering this vengeful engagement in the right sense of criminality, so they entered the area where the Penal Code should be dealt with according to this proposal, and they should deal primarily with organised crime related to this area, meaning a chain of dealers, a chain of resellers and, of course, their organisers and leaders. What this bill is likely to do will make it possible to make time possible to commit itself precisely to such criminal acts, i.e. by persecuting and sanctioning those persons who organise the dealing activity, the reselling of intoxicating drugs. So it is definitely our view that with the police state, it means the presence of the police, the judiciary, in a criminal sense, we do not benefit from such offences, but also from the possible savings that will come from this law. We have seen in the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office, which is the amount of, or number of these cases being prosecuted through the Criminal Law, and of course, that number of cases requires significant funds to be spent. Is that exactly what we're going to do, I'm not saying that we're going to be able to do, but I'm sure we're going to have a chance to target some of these funds that are provided in the budget to what might give results on this plan, which is to make intoxicating drugs as little as possible, which is precisely through the criminal prosecution of the organizers of this activity and, of course, to most of what I think is the only result, which has shown research in much more developed countries than we are, that we need to prevent, is to put a maximum into prevention. Let me not be too long, the HNS will undoubtedly support these changes in this section. We talked about this subject a long time ago, out there in 2009, but it was always going in some direction that we were being stegmatized as someone who advocated the decriminalization of easy drugs which is absolutely not true because these violations would continue to be punished only by one other procedure, much more rational, more efficient and more socially beneficial. What is still proposed in these amendments, and what has caused certain controversy in the public, which is not to report a criminal offence of certain categories of persons, means, above all, a priest and a doctor, or a lawyer. Our opinion, it's one legal gain of criminal law that should be respected. It is interesting, however, that the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia's Penalty Law still exempt him from criminal responsibility except for his spouse, his family's ropes, and his defenders and religious confessors. Of course, this was about criminal acts for which the death penalty could be imposed. In fact, there really are those calls, those calls that exist in some way because they have this opportunity to keep the secret that their client has told them conditionally, and from that part of the good traditions of the right should not come out, although it should probably be very sharp and clearly defined which cases in which such a thing should still be excluded. As for the cube, it has also caused some controversy, it is a growing problem of socially unacceptable behaviour and I am afraid that we have problems in this part that is legal, meaning that it is organised under the Law on Games and that unfortunately more and more young people have accepted that monster as socially acceptable behavior, and from this phenomenon we will probably only in some future results, analyses of the general social, social status of our young people and, unfortunately, some more seriously, have poor results and growing social and other problems. There may be doubtful, and it might be good for Mr. Secretary to say something, namely, one part of this is now coming back to us according to the Penal Code despite the fact that we have a law on gambling. Is that something that should have an analogy to this with the possession of drugs for personal use, so give us a little bit of an explanation. I'm going to say it one more time, so HNS thinks that these, most changes are necessary, and that the total judiciary will be more efficient and socially beneficial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20803	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Branko Vuksic, so please welcome the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20804	Your esteemed colleagues in your discussion said that not reporting a crime is how legal gain is proposed here. Do you do anything, I repeat what I said in the debate, when a terrorist attack is planned, when the confessor knows that the one he confesses, who confesses, rapes little children. How do you react to planning a terrorist attack on the school? Is that a secret to who we're protecting? We simply need to give answers to, so that the citizens of Croatia do not, and we too are mistaken what is actually wanted to be done with that provision. And once again, I insist that Minister Milenic responds to me whether this canonical law and worldly rights are equalised in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20805	Thank you very much. A reply to the replica by the respected representative Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20806	Thank you, Mr. President. So in my debate, I asked Mr. Minister we would have to, we would have to determine these situations in which such a right means both confessors and lawyers and doctors cannot or should not be used. I think even in law, that's what's supposed to happen. Now, that width of what you're saying is a terrorist attack and I think so. You know, conspiracy theories that possibly someone in confession can tell you are probably not exactly the basis for spreading panic, reporting to the court, to the police. Because unfortunately there are us, there are all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20807	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20808	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. You said that by violating, or criminalising the use of drugs in our own need, we would achieve the objective of the Penal Code. This Penal Code that is before us is not only the law to punish someone, but the law to prevent and take some crimes and criminal acts. In itself, the law must be preventive that one who tries and thinks he can do something that is contrary to the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia does not. In my view, we would do better if we put the procedure in the criminal sphere, shortened the maximum actions that were previously too long, too long, unnecessary, and if we were to refer those persons to a certain rehabilitation either by working for the general good, or by some other preventive methods because we consider that there is a small limit here from the first joint, to the second, to the next. When again, this same person may return as a criminal offence after repeated violations there several times back to the sphere of the Penal Code because it may become something more dangerous than that from the user today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20809	Thank you very much. A reply to the replica by the respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20810	Well, in fact, my colleague Salapic and I agree only that I disagree on the basic matter, which is that we think at the HNS that better effects will still be obtained through the Criminal Law on personal property, possession of intoxicating drugs for personal use, and otherwise I agree with everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20811	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debate. The Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament is now up and is represented by Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20812	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There's a change ahead of us, and I need to tell the Penal Code that hasn't even been put into effect yet. As we remember in October last year, we passed a new Penal Code after 12 amendments to the '98 Penal Code. which we systematically edited and modernised. I would say and here last year a new law has been passed as a result of extensive preparation, consultation of professional, scientific, general public compliance with international documents and good practice that ensures the protection of social goods, accepts new social relations, economic and technological development and ensures the sanctioning of modern forms of crime. This law, the proposer says, within this one-year, period of one year to prepare for its application, has been observed as the applicant says, and says that mainly these changes refer to the head of crimes against human health in relation to drug abuse, crimes against property in relation to gambling, and to the definition of shipping in terms of criminal law, and that there are mostly linguistic or technical changes left. We will see later that they are not only technical and linguistic, some are and I would be there on behalf of those who have to apply the law and frequent amendments to the law even appealed that if it is not essential that it does not reach for linguistic perfection because it actually confuses those who have to apply the law. But let's look now at these main proposed changes and, of course, the most significant change, that is, the change that has been initiated and will lead to the most debates, is the change on decriminalisation, consumption, or drug use. This decriminalisation is one of the SDP's pre-election promises, and here's the SDP now doing it. However, Croatian citizens would prefer to have SDP implement other pre-election promises such as GDP growth, reducing unemployment, reducing the departure of young people abroad with bread, etc. But here, this is a promise of realisation in front of us. As far as HDZ is concerned, the position on this issue is crystal clear. So drugs are evil, it damages and destroys not only individuals, destroys families and communities. In the HDZ, we also believe that both incrimination and drug possessions are a strong social condemnation of drug abuse, which certainly includes consumption for unhealthy purposes. So it's clear that drugs create addicts over time about increasingly powerful opiates, addiction changes human personality, pushes them into other forms of crime because they don't stop at anything to get their hands on new amounts of drugs. But the ruling coalition obviously doesn't think so. They advocate the free lifestyle, who wants to do drugs, let them do so regardless of the consequences for the individual, for the person and for the community. It is said in the light of this proposal that this is a trend in contemporary criminal law. Well, it's interesting then, and we're reading it out of the reasons that out of the 27 EU countries in 21, drug possession is meant to be a crime, so it's not incriminating in 6 countries. Even so, it is elaborated precisely that in some countries that are meant to do so as a criminal act, what are cracks to get caught for the first time with drugs not to be punished, not to punish up to 5 grams, etc., but all this is in fact incriminating by criminal laws. This is why European countries have an incontinent criminal law of all 21. I would say that everyone further states, the arguments that apply in favour of the the thesis that drug consumption should be decriminalized, that is, possession of drugs for their own needs, whatever that means, the straining of arguments in order to justify this one world-wide liberal attitude. The first argument is therefore to elaborate the principle of bis and I am going, so to the European Court of Human Rights. It is also our constitutional principle that no one can be punished twice for the same work, that is quite clear. However, here I have before me a decision by the Croatian government of July on the harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Croatia with the Penal Code, and it is said in that decision that criminal law should be brought into line with the criminal law in a way that avoids overlapping legal descriptions and that the Penal Code is, in the sense of this decision, a Penal Code published in the National Journal of 125/2011. Well, the government's decision actually says that Croatian law should then be brought into line with this Penal Code. And therefore this argument does not stand in this proposal. You can say that's what we think, but it's not necessarily that argument. So European practice, which is also not because we saw that European practice is going in a completely different direction. The EU Council Framework Decision that says, I don't know why it's even there as an argument, which says that states are free to decide whether to incriminate this in the Penal Code or leave it in the area of the offence. The statistics and reports of the State's Attorney's Office are just saying that even under the existing Penal Code, it can be done in the case of a meaningless act or when the principle of opportunity is applied in criminal prosecution, so it is true that those who commit insignificant acts, which are these stories of a joint and I'm telling you that no one has sat in prison because of a joint, that's nonsense. So, look at the statistics and the State's Attorney's report, all those who are either suspended or not or launched are exactly those who are actually occasional consumers or were caught the first time with drugs, so there was no case. What now? What is proposed? To transfer to the breaking sphere. Therefore, it is also said that so far has been arbitration and an unequal approach from the court to the court from the state's attorney's office to the state's attorney's office. However, now that arbitration is coming down from the court, from the State's Attorney's office, actually to the police. Since it's not said what it means to own a drug for its own purposes, every time a cop decides whether he thinks it's for his own use or not, he'll decide whether to refer it to a criminal or criminal procedure. But I'm saying that he'll never actually be able to refer to the criminal proceedings on this proposal but only when he proves that he can prove that he's reselling. So when he catches him directly in sales and resells. He says if he finds a scale in his apartment or something, but it's already a phase in which he has to have a warrant to search his apartment. How will he know on the street if he's got a scale in his apartment? The minister says if we tell some limit in grams that the dealer will always carry just below that limit, and this is how the dealer will carry as much as he wants. I mean, if I'm wearing 20 grams, and anyone who can tell me it's not in five, six days or in a month, I found a little cheaper, I found someone a little cheaper, so I bought it. How's that? I mean, there's no legal provision to find that limit. So that arbitration remains because there is no qualification to be considered dealing. So you have to catch him and prove him reselling which is very difficult. We're talking about a criminal record of Stigmatization. Did the promoter hear and I recently heard one expert on the radio say that more than 50% of the young people in question said that they refrained from using drugs because this action was incriminating, intended to be a crime, and more than 40% of those who already consumed drugs said that they gave up on consumption precisely because this incrimination could harm them in their further life, employment and so on. Is that bad, or is that exactly the purpose of criminal law? So punishing the committed act of meaning and sanctions and criminal law is a punishment for the crime committed, but also a general prevention that discourages all those potential perpetrators from dissuading them from incriminating behaviour. Furthermore, the promoter says that a mandatory treatment measure is possible in the infringement procedure. This is true, but a mandatory treatment measure can also be imposed in the Penal Code and according to the now Penal Code that was to enter into force on 1.1.2013, therefore incriminal possession of drugs in such a way as to prevent a prison sentence of up to 6 months. We know that, as a rule, by the same law, the punishment of the law is changed by working for the greater good for up to six months. So no jail time for up to 6 months, the minimum sentence for prison is three months, so it's mandatory to try and offer replacement work for the common good. What do we have in a situation where it's transferred to a criminal sphere? So today, possession of drugs under criminal law under drug abuse laws is punishable by a fine of 5 thousand to 20 thousand kuna. Now, when you catch a young man with some amount of drugs, his minimum penalty is five thousand kuna. Five thousand kuna will go to mandatory charge through the IRS. To assume that those guys you're talking about, the users and drug users won't have any money, there may be dealers who will pay it peacefully and move on with their jobs, and no matter how many times it takes because they'll earn that money, but those you say the customers who are actually the victims of that money won't have, so what's next in the breaking legislation is the replacement of a fine that can't be charged with jail time. And we're back in jail. So, so much for this. Given the timing, I'd like to say something about other incriminatings. Here's to gambling fortunately, I hope that the parallel then will change the breaking legislation so that we don't get to the violation of the principle "No Bis in I go" but I ask the promoters, so I expect an answer. So far in these games these chains of chance have been so incriminated only by the organization of such games. Now, this style that is proposed is introduced and the term is done, so it's not known whether it's for the one who's playing or just for the organizers. And the question of incriminating the organisation here and promoting games without the approval of the competent authority is somehow imposing that general impression that instead of systematically doing something to encourage the development of the addiction of each other's addiction, each other's dependence on gambling that we're actually saying that we're going to incriminate the stake only where it's not with the approval of the competent authority or where it's not legal for the state to get its share of the tax. Something that's been subdued under technical change, and it's not a technical change at all, so it's a change in the definition of family and loved ones. I note that until now, as a family, a defined mate, an extramarital partner of their common children, same-sex communities, is now being introduced something that I think is impossible, which is that in the definition that you have a family defined as a mate, an extramarital friend, the same-sex partner of their common children and children each of them. And even if it were to happen in advance, if you were to introduce something into this law that you intend to do, which is approval, adoption of children to same-sex communities, then you have it in your mind by the adoptor and adoptor. So I really don't know if it's possible that the same-sex partners They have kids in common. [[Intruder: Time.]] And I don't see why the usual number of relatives was excluded from the idea from the circle of the family and why they put it in a circle of people close to them, but I believe that this definition is not in line with the other applicable legal regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20813	Thank you very much. Four replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first one's a respected representative of the Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20814	Thank you. I'm gonna start my colleagues. This isn't decriminalization. Decriminalization would mean giving up punishment. We don't give up on punishment, we just give up on criminal trial. There's a misdemeanor there stays. We are only introducing to criminal legislation what practice already knows but we ensure that the Penal Code is applied in Pula, Dubrovnik, Djakov and Zagreb. In addition, Article 190(2) of the proposal has so far been set out in Article 173(2). A penal law that ceases to apply on January 1st is punishable by possession with the intention of further selling. It stays, it doesn't change. So we don't have to catch someone selling, reselling, at this point taking money, giving drugs. Well, it was never in the Penal Code, so the police then that kind of thing could never be convicted of dealing. And you know how a cop will know that drugs aren't for personal use, so someone on the party has 20 packets of p 1 gram marijuana, so it's known that he didn't take it for himself, that he took it to sell it further. And the cops who deal with the prevention of drug abuse know more than anyone in this room how to fight it, so let's give them the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20815	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica... Are you done?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20816	I had another sentence, if I may. And finally, yes, this is an example of a liberal, a left-wing position. I'm not only ashamed of this attitude, I'm very proud of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20817	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20818	Thank you very much. I wouldn't comment on the world's horizons, but here's a colleague. It's decriminal because that's what the proposer says, and it's decriminal because it's no longer a crime. Crime is a criminal offence, so it remains in the sphere of punitive action in breaking legislation, as a punishable action is sanctioned certain behaviour. But when it's not in the Penal Code, it's decriminalized. What you're saying is known, you know, you don't know, so the law can't be, the Penal Code is known, and you don't know what a cop looks like, so it has to be prescribed. And that's why you see from the state's attorney's report, so all of them, that small percentage of those convicted of jail time, the unconditional prison sentence, that's actually basically drug dealers that can't be proven to be resell, and they get caught multiple times with the drugs they carry around and then they get punished under paragraph 1. So it must be either a limit or a qualification when there is some resale, and when something is for its own use and in that sense I hold that it should have gone towards the distinction between a crime and a crime, either by quantity, or by the number of times when someone was found in such a shop.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20819	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Sandra Petrovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20820	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, colleague Lovrin, you said that the government allows this bill as a socially acceptable free lifestyle, so that's what you said, quote. ... I'm saying that you said that the government allows this bill as a socially acceptable free lifestyle. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I would disagree that something that remains in the sphere of offense is socially acceptable and something that is prevented by a fine of 5 to 20 thousand kuna is socially acceptable. No one's ever said that. I don't think it's what you said either, but you explained the theory that no one was in jail for one joint or sitting in jail. I'm asking you why would a prison sentence be stopped if no one was lying there for one joint? I think this bill made it clear that we want to stick to reality, that the case law created in the area of drug abuse for personal consumption is something we value and we want to comply with legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20821	Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20822	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Petrovic, that's why exactly the Penal Code, both former and present, recognizes the Institute of Insignificant Works, so what's most talked about and that you've all been saying is lying down and rotting in prison because of one joint, so it's not true. But the possession of drugs means that when it is achieved, when the mark of a crime has been committed, but its social danger and way of committing a crime is such that it should be prosecuted. Of course, the court has been left with the possibility because there are a number of life situations in which the crime will be carried out, but the social danger and way of committing the crime do not indicate the criminal danger to which to react. Here, in that sense, has left both the state's attorneys and the courts to evaluate it. Now we leave it to the police. And says counterpart Grbin that this will guarantee the application of the law equally in all parts of Croatia, which so far has not been possible in view of the different practices of courts and state lawyers. I don't agree with that because it's going to happen now, too, at the discretion of the police who can thus form their police practice, but there's no legal parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20823	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20824	Thank you. Here, through the presentation of the esteemed colleague Lovrin, it was essentially suggested that her view was that the difference between the ruling majority and the opposition was essentially attitude towards drugs, it was made to imply that I had concluded through its exposure that the attitude of the ruling majority was not so evil, not so bad and that it could be tolerated. That's absolutely not true. I think that through exposure to the club of MPs and through all the debates so far, it is clear that both the ruling majority and the SDP as parties that drugs are evil, that drugs should neither be tolerated, but that we differ in how to fight it. This proposal focuses on more effective and better control and better fight, focus on the hotspots, focus on the hotspots, and the state's attorney's office agrees on its own report, which is therefore an independent state body, and I don't think that when we talk about the state's attorney's office we can talk about any secular differences, where it says that for the Bagatel forms of this crime should therefore be used criminal punishment. I would compare the methods of fighting the drugs that so far predicted by the Penal Code as if we could pull the parallel with, say... The struggle that so far has gone a long way to try to hit from all sides and have not obtained results such as such a way of fighting does not achieve giving even in a sports boxing fight but is trying to go aimly, so to the weak points that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also focuses on being as effective as possible in that fight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20825	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20826	Comrade Pandek, I am pleased that we agree in the qualification that drugs are evil and therefore should be fought and assessed by such a social danger that they should incriminate them. As far as the State's Attorney's Office is concerned, as I told you, it was a wide range of experts who participated in the former adoption, the adoption of the former Penal Code and the one that was to come into force. It was very high-level and the State's Attorney's Office. What I have not been able to say in my debate, but one of the arguments that it will be a discharging of the courts is that I agree only that in the application of the former KZ and the CAP, it was problematic that the county courts were loaded and that in the second degree, the Supreme Court had actually tried for very little criminal offences. In this respect, it is already regulated by the amendment of existing legislation. As far as material savings are concerned, I don't know where it's going to happen, because if this law comes into force, then you get the municipal courts out of here, and you're going to have to worry about the misdemeanors. So, it'll all end up again somewhere or we'll completely give up on criminal punishment. Therefore, that number will be burdened by the Infringement Courts and will again be burdened with the barely-delivered High Court of Violation which we know to have been a narrow throat for many years and the reason for falling into antiquity of many misdemeanours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20827	Thank you very much. No more replicas because one of the fellow respected gave up the replica. We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now up to the HDSSB and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20828	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates. We have a very important law before us – amendments and additions to the Penal Code and one comment on the statement of counterpart Grbin. We have nothing to be ashamed of or proud of. Our task should first and foremost be to have a modern Penal Code, a modern Penal Code that will follow the trends of time, lifestyle and space in which we live, and Croatia will become a full member of the European Union on 1 July 2013. There's a lot of hard work and work being done for the current Penal Code. It was attended by a number of experts from this area from the Faculty of Law and I personally had the opportunity to participate through the committees in the Croatian Assembly through legislation and justice and through the former Committee on European Integration to discuss such issues because it was one of the key laws and necessary legislation and a prerequisite for the conclusion of Croatia's negotiations for the entry into the European Union of this sphere of criminal law and criminal offences that were foreseen under the existing Penal Code, which will enter into force on 1 January 2013. As summed up for these most important amendments and additions to the law, we have already principled a discussion on the use of drugs for personal use. We believe that the purpose of the Penal Code should be to punish the perpetrators of criminal acts, but also to prevent the perpetrators from doing a certain crime not to happen because these crimes provide for certain punishments and that everyone who comes to trial and the opportunity to do something has to bear in mind that this is a criminal offence and that this act should be held accountable. We are not in favour of pushing people into prisons too much, of delaying people's unnecessary criminal proceedings, or of anyone responsible for what they did not do, but we advocate that because of the way and conditions of difficult life in the Republic of Croatia right now, we should warn the younger population of the dangers of drugs, of the dangers and of that first joint that can really be a joint for our own use, or may happen at some party, on a date or something like that, but it is dangerous, and it is a question of repeating such acts, repeating the enjoyment of such acts in larger quantities. Have we really achieved the purpose, and if we transfer it to the breaking sphere, if we allow those who have enough financial resources to pay for it, to pay it to be free of responsibility, that in that case they may, and also do not have to give some measure of rehabilitation or some measure of preventive lecture or reference to a particular institution to hear about drug harmfulness. And what about those who can't pay for it? They will return to prison or will have to endure the sentence by working for the common good. We believe that this project should remain in Article 190(1) of the current Criminal Code proposal, primarily because of preventing the danger of drug use in any emerging form, and we believe that dangers for societies, especially for young people and for the time in which we live, should be prevented in the first place, and this is exactly the kind of action to remain in the sphere of criminal law but with different determination of proceedings and penalties. So, not by punishing the prison, but by punishing the general good, for certain rehabilitating measures to refer that person to the dangers of drug use. We can't claim there today 100% and certainly, that all those who have tried marijuana for the first time since the younger population know what it does or worked for. But if it repeats it several times, there is a real danger that it will become something that will cross sooner or later in the area of criminal law. We are not in favour of just being against something, we are in favour of having a Penal Code which will be a Penal Code for the benefit of our citizens, but also for the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. There have been a number of discussions about this, and we've never come to the green branch with it. We can't say that those experts who worked on that bill, and now we're changing it, have no idea what they're doing or saying. We can't even say that your intentions aren't good because we want the modern modern Penal Code but we need to prevent dangers, and then we don't have anything to be ashamed of or ashamed of, but we need to say really what we think, and we think it would be better if a certain fear of the danger of a crime existed in that first step. Whether this is good or bad will show the time ahead because this law will enter into force on 1 January 2013. Furthermore, changes and additions to the laws relating to other items, primarily about gambling, so illicit gambling, where you have provided for the extension of these crimes to all gambling in those cases where there is a significant property benefit for the perpetrators of criminal offences, we consider it to be good and it is in line with those and previous laws that we discussed in the Croatian Parliament and that is one of the solutions that really falls within the sphere of modern and modern criminal law. The intended punishment for and the very possibility to take and... People get hurt in shipping, traffic rage on the coast, we also see it as a good measure and a warning because we saw what happens in summer holidays that our tourists, visitors of Croatia, and also Croatian citizens and foreigners suffer neither blame nor debt from persons who are not allowed nor unauthorized, but also in certain states likely to be alcoholised or threatened by human lives, and I consider it on behalf of the HDSSB club that this is good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another solution that you have explained to some new items in that general explanation is that it is good to change two hours for one daily income, that this is a total of 720 hours. We believe that all these measures that will not fill the prisons, rehabilitating measures, working for the common good, the Prosecution Office, we believe that we should give a greater and stronger role precisely in such solutions because we will not achieve anything, we do not have enough or the capacity of prisons, and we will not achieve anything by putting people in jail or freeing people in a way that tells them that you pay for it you can go. It's a benefit to the state budget, but the benefit to society as a whole in the future won't be good. As for Croatia's contract with the Holy Table and these comments we have had in recent days on priestly confession, the inviolability to confess contrary to our Agreement of Croatia and the Holy chair there we should be very careful and there we may indeed have gone a little too far with these worldly solutions. A truly confessed secret should remain uninjured. What happens in the cases you Mr. Minister explained when the work was done or the work was not done or there is an announcement of an act? It's really a complex and very difficult question. For the position of the HDSSB club, it is clear that the priestly secret and confession is one of the unbreakable sacraments since we are a Catholic country and that the people who go to confession know what a sacrament confession is I believe that this world-wide rule of law should not interfere with the priestly confession zone and the secret which the priest as a priest should observe in accordance with the rules of the Catholic Church. As regards the discharge of Croatian courts with some of the solutions provided for in this Penal Code, we have seen in the 2011 State Attorney's Office reports that the courts in some of these minor acts have not been relieved but have just been overloaded and we believe that we would repeat again these alternative methods of punishing the perpetrators of criminal offences to achieve a much greater effect. As for the Labour Club's proposal on amendments and additions to the Penal Code relating to the issue of solicitation, i.e. confirmation of non-payment of wages if we really thought about what we discussed in the Croatian Parliament, if we really want perfect criminal laws, criminal laws that will protect everyone, and primarily workers because of unpaid salaries, we see today in this Union letter that more than 80,000 workers in Croatia are working and not getting paid, we believe that it is worthless what we have brought to the Croatian Assembly if the key to this solution is not that honesty can be forced to the end and to collect what the employer is obliged to pay the worker. We therefore believe that the issue of a document is no extra in relation to what has been so far, but rather a need and that in this way the rights of workers will be protected and that it really needs to be given a green light if we really want to apply those laws that we have passed in the Croatian Parliament, and under this proposal we have no objection to that being really so and that the rights of workers are protected in the best possible way in the Republic in view of and knowing the conditions in which we live. However, it should be imagined that 80,000 people may have been three, four more people from their families who work without pay and cannot pay bills, get credits, have raised loans for apartments, can end up in Croatian prisons, and will again Croatian prisons become overcrowded, overcrowded. This way and this time, not to those who enjoyed the joint or used drugs for their own needs but to those who had nothing to eat, they had to pay the directories and bills, yet they were found in Croatian prisons. We think it's still a bigger problem than this problem if we're going to end this possibility of not being tried twice for the same thing, whether something is going to be in the sphere of crime or offence. I think it is more important to deal with the issues of how our legislation will be modern and modern, but also how Croatian citizens in Croatia will live a better, more secure and fairer life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20829	Thank you very much. Now we have a whole series of replicas. First respected representative Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20830	Thank you very much. Here is a colleague of Salapic's, you spoke in your debate about the functions of criminal law, i.e. the criminal sphere. So, in addition to the repressive, it also has a preventive function and I believe that when we talk about preventing it from being extremely well mentioned what most of the different competent institutions of educational, health institutions are going to focus on, and now they will have the opportunity to prove what a function really is to prevent society. I don't think the awareness of the dangers of drugs that no one here in this assembly has slowed down, so no one's saying that drugs are not evil. The awareness of drug dangers must come to young people or children from kindergarten through preschool, school, so children in formative age must know already what are the dangers of drugs so as not to put themselves in the position of addicts or consumers at the end of the day. I think when we talk about young people especially young people who are consumers or who are addicts, I think we're actually talking about victims of the crime referred to in paragraph 2 or victims of a drug trafficking crime. I think that's the key difference between the consumer and the dealer. So the first victim is the second victim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20831	Dear Joseph Salapic will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20832	Dear colleagues here agree with you entirely only there is fear that the victim might be a user because the victim may be a young man who first went out with his company and tried a joint accidentally in some kind of alcoholic state and so forth but it can't be a lifestyle. There is a real danger of the victim becoming the perpetrator of that item 1. The 190th article is terminated but we will have a person who will quickly appear on paragraphs 2, 3 or 4 of this I am talking about. There's no doubt that we and this side of the opposition agree that the drugs are general evil, the general danger and that there's no dilemma for anything. It's just our goal to achieve an effect. Is the effect really good this one or that one? Penalty Sphere Violent Sphere? Whoever has the money can pay, who doesn't can end up in jail again. I believe that we should be together in our capacity to prevent the prevention of acts that stand before such perpetrators. In my opinion, prevention is the essence of everything and punishment should be what's behind it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20833	Thank you. Second Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20834	You said that with a confessional secret, you should be very thoughtful. So that's exactly what this bill does and corrects and corrects what happens when I'm introduced, or when a confessional secret is broken, that's what this proposal corrects in the existing law, and it's been voted on and that's not at all talked about. Well, that's kind of our logic when a confessional secret was violated, and that's the existing law that no one ever talked about. Now that we're making things right and we're protecting a confessional secret, it's now said that we're harassing her. In fact, under the current law, you've introduced me not knowing if you were still an integral part of that coalition, a violation of a confessional secret that the confessor is obliged to report a criminal offence if he did it to the harm of children and minors. That's what she's trying to tell you now. And with this bill of law as you've had the opportunity to hear from the minister who says we keep it off and keep a confessional secret. And the confession of the secret by our law and by the law of Canon is true of what was done, for confession is repentance for what was done. And I ask you to come to the confessor or somewhere else, and yet to boast, confession is the repentance of sin, not the announcement of what I will do, and the praise of it. So please. That's not to be protected because it's not a confessional secret, it's not a confessional secret under canonical law, and that's where we've cleared the whole thing up. So you can imagine in the middle of a war someone comes and says you know confessor I'm going to attack the mortars' kindergarten and so is that the confession secret? It's an announcement... and there's a church about it very much to prevent such things. It's forbidden to kill but not to defend your life and other people's lives, so you can see there's no punishment or sin. But this is where things are fixed and that's what you should say and that's how it is. Whoever suspects, read the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20835	The esteemed Josip Salapic will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20836	There is no doubt about it, colleague Ingrid Anticevic, what you said at all. That's where I agree with you completely. We discussed amendments and additions to the Penal Code where, when the minister initially presented the proposal, there was little doubt that the confession secret was completely injureable. You said the minister gave a signed contract with St. With the chair and that the inviolability of the confessional secret remains solidified by these amendments and by the bill, just make it perfectly clear whether this confessible secret is in any case in any case, and even in these cases spoken of by a colleague, Ingrid Anticevic, we cannot know what the confessor is telling the priest, but whether the truly confessed secret is completely non-injurious or what the colleague said earlier that someone was announcing one of the crimes that he was going to commit or not. Could this conversation with the priest be in that the priest can talk that it is not good and that it is absolutely unnecessary and that it is not in line with the faith, and there the question remains whether the priest is then obliged to tell him what the confessor told him at his confession. Because talking to a priest’s confession doesn’t just have to be a confession that someone has committed, but it can be something someone is afraid of, but it doesn’t seem to be someone planning something, so really whether it can be prevented or not. I think the minister should end up answering whether the confession secret is fully in line with the contract with St. A chair uninjured.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20837	The next replica of the respected MPs Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Salapic. You said earlier in your debate that the purpose of the Penal Code is punishment and prevention, and of course we agree and that we should warn the one who takes the joint and of course we agree with it, but our differences are obviously taking place in the spheres of whether it's a crime or it's a violation. However, I will tell you that it is the child, or that minor, that we come from him with a joint that we find certain that the victim and he need help, not punish him, to help in terms of mandatory counseling because if we do not advise him right now, it is a prevention. It's that part of the secondary essentially preventing non-primary prevention, but that's exactly why I'm advocating the violation sphere. Why do I say that, because trade, production, dealing, that's essentially a real crime, and we have to really help this victim, and we're going to help her if we put her right in the breaking sphere and help her in that way, so we can prevent her from actually becoming a criminal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20839	Representative Josip Salapic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20840	Dear colleagues, there's a lot of similarity to what I've been saying and what you're saying now and Mrs. Lovrin's talking about it, the only thing that's more concerned about when this incriminating act is being found in the sphere of criminal responsibility. Are we going to break and pay the fine, what I said and in the debate, pay the fine further and get rid of the liability easier thought that you committed a harder or easier act if you have money that you can pay, if you don't have that victim can end up in prison or at work for general good or on some other measures because she couldn't pay the fine for using the joint. Our mission together should be to protect victim number one, but under number two, to prevent the victim from being able to try the joint. It's the same big question, it's a thin line between this criminal and the criminal, so you decided by a bill in front of the government, and we think it'd be better to be criminal, and that's the only difference that we're different. But we are no different from the fact that we need to help the victim of this severe evil that God can not allow in a young man’s life to become a major problem of life and of his family and himself. It's not just the government and the Justice Department and our advocates that we are to be a prevention of everything but prevention should be started primarily in the family, from family in school, from teachers, teachers to college and more and more. So it's our joint mission that we all need to carry out together. If any of us are scheduled, it means that there is a danger that the work is repeated and there is a danger that there will be more and more such crimes or crimes if we so declare, and we see according to the state's attorney's report that it is indeed more and more in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20841	We're moving on with the replica. Drazen Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20842	Thank you. More or less, we all agree that this crime should primarily act preventively, but I would say that it is important for this... crime to act preventively before, therefore not in terms of prevention as punishments, so we will, in this way, deter the perpetrator of the crime or as a proposed offence from taking place. Users in the world let's say drug use starts somewhere when they're 14, 15 years old, a little who's going to start using drugs at 30, 35 years old. So it is extremely important to act here before committing this crime with educational methods through institutions and through families, and I think the best prevention in criminal law is essentially through resociation. It seems to me that the present proposal for this act as a criminal offence has essentially made it even more difficult to resociate and thus achieve prevention than it will be in the new proposed solution. Everyone mentioned that they basically used what the victims were. Those who use drugs I think we can agree on are somehow people in some kind of trouble. These may be persons of a weaker character, weaker persons who are easily pushed towards that side of the edge, and perhaps by such a solution when they are exposed to criminal persecution and the difficulties of resociation, we push them even more over that edge and make what we all want more difficult, which is prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20843	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, those of a weaker character may be persons who are in different problems and because of the living circumstances in which they live. Is it for a young man who has graduated from high school or college and has no job, is on the desk, has no swear to help in life or to get out, or to eat, or to get dressed, such a person can come as a young person in such temptations. Here, in the light of the law, it says that in modern criminal law as a lifestyle that is milder punishable than it was before and that is understood as a violation of alcohol, alcohol consumption, drug use, prostitution, and the like. This is no longer a sphere of criminal law but a sphere of offense. It is said that these new different lifestyles will achieve this preventive measure, which is that a person will pay the penalty. So I think it's still too much, it's too much because we live in a society and a time that's very dangerous and where every vice, whether it's drugs or alcohol, can lead to a crime, because it's out of despair, from a weak character, from a lack of knowledge in society. Anyway, the thing is big on prevention, and we've done it ten times already. Together we must be in the service of our laws to be really modern laws, laws that will be at the hands of citizens, enforceable, but which will have the purpose of really protecting both individuals and the Constitution and the state values of the Republic of Croatia. If we're only on one occasion, if we've put some milder, somewhere harder, we have to take care of what led to it, and here as a matter of prevention, we can agree on whatever we're talking about, but the problem is that even the weaker characters of life's problems can arise for a variety of reasons, and today we live in a time where there's less work, more and more people on the bureaus, more and more young educated people who leave Croatia and have no place to work. Now these are the real problems, and the real problems then such a nature can lead to these problems, which is the taste of joints, alcohol, wandering at night, and that's what you've already said since you were 14, and there are cases to be so much earlier, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20845	We will now hear the replica of the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20846	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Salapic, you have well noticed the good intentions of amending the Penal Code proposed by the Croatian Labour Labour Party. In a commentary on the amendments to the Penal Code by the legislator, it is argued that in modern law it is giving up on the punishment of lifestyle, and the lifestyle seems to be with the wandering of drug use, prostitution and non-payment of wages. The style of life is, it proves the Croatian reality, and the notifying of the billing of wages. The style of life of the elite seems to be along with the white shit not to protect the weakest. It is not the purpose of this proposal of the Croatian Labourers – the parties of work to punish employers but to make them pay salaries, to make sure that what is guaranteed by the Constitution is fulfilled. The aim is to give workers, if they can't pay their salaries, to confirm their salary. So, the goal is for workers to realize their true truth is always confirmed from day to day in Croatia by workers who are entitled to Tantal's torments. However, all the regulations, all the laws so far allow employers not to pay salaries, not to give confirmations, and the state does not want to intervene. What Croatian Labourists are – the party of work has proposed is precisely this intervention forcing us to treat workers differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20847	And this replica corresponds to Joseph Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20848	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, that's why we supported your proposal in front of the HDSSB club, because unfortunately the lifestyle in Croatia has become survival, and sometimes survival is impossible if a man who either works for the lowest salary that we have is unfortunately 2800 and something kuna that needs to see what kind of wisdom or what kind of man one can be if he has one, two, three or more children that can survive with such pay. We are, unfortunately, but due to various circumstances, a large part of the economic crisis has been in the past and a large part of the burden comes to the new government because of the circumstances of the economy. But what has been announced is a major economic swing, large investments that will enable new jobs in Croatia, unfortunately has not been implemented, has not shown some effects and more and more unemployed people are going to contribute to the announcement of a new 2013 budget where we see that there are more than 11 billion kuna missing, we see that the time, unfortunately, that will be very difficult for us, that there will be more cancellations, more payouts, more problems in the economy and indeed this proposal that you have said that employers are least obliged to pay the workers' salary unless there are those circumstances that are foreseen by law. But this is that someone is unable to issue a salary bill or confirm that the worker has earned something, so it's the least minimum that they can do no matter what happens. I believe it's going to happen best for the worker. But those 80,000 people in this case understand us best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20849	The sixth replica and the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20850	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Salapic, I fully agree with you, with that finding you said that 80,000 workers in Croatia do not receive pay. But I want to add to that number another piece of information that we have a large number of workers who are receiving minimum wage, and they have earned and should have been paid to pay their full salary which is significantly higher than minimum wage. And a large number of these workers do not get confirmation that they are not paid the difference between minimum to full pay and a clear failure to obtain such confirmation, nor can they exercise their right in accordance with the other law which he gave them, which is a question of the Executive Act to collect that difference between the minimum wage and the one paid to them. And, of course, they were also denied that right, as I said when it comes to the exercise of law in accordance with the law given them by the Implementing Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20851	The reply to the replica, esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20852	Thank you very much, Vice President. The adoption of the Executive Act without the possibility of implementing the same law is absolutely pointless, so that without an executive id, without the role of the FINA, without what is said to make it easier for workers to reach their resources in one way or another. Without it, everything is groundless that we discussed in the Croatian Parliament. And all these laws that are laws of such nature,... Unfortunately, so far, they've proven completely ineffective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's effective is forced payment, forced payment, coercion. Well, we've had cases where people who don't pay the TV fee end up in prison. Some pensioners with 800 kn. Retirement. We've had cases where people end up in prison for 600 pounds of unpaid electricity or gas. We have cases that the entire system will collapse into one single and most unfair way that all the burden of the crisis will be thrown back on the back of innocent people and workers, people who are unemployed and their children, and all the effect of that flight of Croatia we announced is nowhere. Because if that were the case then what will come before us in a few days' time, the State budget for 2013 wouldn't look as dreary as it looks, and I can see, unfortunately, there's no light in front of us if that condition stays. And exactly what you're talking about today is the least the employer should do for a worker. That's 80,000 of those people who work, and they don't get paid, and plus let's add 333 thousand or more that don't work at all. Then we see the dimensions of the problem in front of Croatia in the time ahead. Unfortunately, we think that Croatia's entry into the European Union will change a lot. If this continues, it will be very, very difficult for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20853	The last line will be presented by the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Salapic, you referred to the Croatian Labourist proposal on the Penal Code at one point, and you realized that it would inherit a better quality Penal Code. It is true that the objective of this proposal is not repression but prevention. From the punishment, self-punishing an employer, no employee will benefit. As much as it can get, it's just damage. Today, we heard an example, and someone mentioned it with 10 workers and non-payments and wages practically means about 100,000 kunas for the workers. But now we have the workers of the Gredel, 300 of them. There's a much bigger difference. We absolutely support the introduction of order in the state, that the state be truly legal, and the least you can do in this sense is adopt this proposal. And I must admit that in that part, I was pleased by the fact that you, as a minister, have announced that during the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Penal Code, this proposal will be further discussed. I once again appeal to you do it in the interest of all these people who still don't get paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20855	And to this final reply, the esteemed representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20856	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative, we've mostly all agreed, and you from the Labour Club and here at the HDSSB have agreed, we're a complicated opposition, and we believe that the minister will understand the good intentions of this bill and classify this to make the law truly enforceable, in order to make sense in the light of that law of conduct that we've passed. There will be many other proposals, and it is good that the discussions are as constructive as I think they were today because through the the thesis for and against how to be better, we can really come to a better solution. And those who expect productivity from us expect that what the Croatian Parliament is really doing is not just passing empty laws and many amendments and supplementing the law if they do not serve their purpose. And we believe that both these amendments and additions to the Penal Code in a particular section that we could support will contribute, in the part that we couldn't say why we couldn't. I think this would be better, and in that proposal of the Labourist, we think that it is good and that it is in line with what we have been saying so far and that this primarily protects workers' rights, and that should be the purpose of parliamentary representatives and the Croatian Parliament as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20857	Thank you, too. The legislators have now come forward. First I give my word to the Minister of Justice, the Honorable Orsat Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20858	Thank you very much. So, I'd like to take into account the questions and perhaps some misunderstandings that have arisen in the debate so far and just look back at a few things. So, first, I'm going to start by reporting for the preparation of the crime, or by not reporting the crime committed. These are the two crimes that exist in this law that is being amended. So they didn't come into force but they were brought in last year. So last year, the issue was resolved that there is no exception when not reporting the preparation of the crime. As regards the non-reportation of the criminal offence, an exception has been introduced there, however, the confessor, like the lawyer, had to report the criminal offence if it was to the harm of the child. So that's the solution that's been voted and that's in force. We only change it in this part of the crime. So, we're not going into non-registration of preparing a crime, it's a crime that exists, we're just looking back at this. It's logical when you commit a crime that if you start from a lawyer that if this provision is now interpreted, then a lawyer should report someone who comes to him and tell him what he did and hire him to defend him. Because that's what it says. It's similar with a confessional secret. So that's what we're changing now. As far as preparing a crime, there is no such thing as our changes. So that stays the way it is. I think it caused some confusion in the public, so we're just looking at the crime committed and in that segment in confessional secrecy and in certain professions, I said. The defense attorney, or lawyer, we say they don't have to report it. It's a scale between two evils. One thing is whether you've been mostly discovered or mostly protected by a certain I say in this case or the secrets were professional, it was confessional. So we've decided on this solution. As far as the wages are concerned, of course what I said and on the Justice Committee that we will see in one segment as much and what we can include and what kind of remarks there will be. However, I would say that for the first time, you know, since the Law on Labour has been in force and since it was in force that it is an executive document we have now for the first time as the Government applied it in practice to really be an executive document and that it can be acted upon. So far it was just an empty letter on paper. It was within the law, but there was no implementing act or in other laws how it could be implemented. So, we changed that. As for this crime of possession of drugs for personal use, enough, of course, is something we've discussed a lot. We discussed a number of matters concerning this work. I'd start now, talking a lot about quantity. There was an opinion that a quantity should be prescribed and that it should not be. We decided to do this by talking to people in practice. The members of our task force were both police officers and state lawyers and people dealing with prevention, etc. We simply concluded that regulation, solid regulation, would lead to increased abuse of the very ones we want to punish, so dealers. So that they can carry us a certain amount of what is prescribed and get away with it as personal use. But it's the same for you that remains a felony. And now they, if they were prescribed, could get through it. So that's something we didn't want to do. The other thing, what we need to talk about, we need to talk about that those who deal, those who produce, they have to go to jail. This Penal Code brings much more severe punishment for those persons. Dealing around schools for 15 years, organising a group for a minimum of 3 years, so to a long-term prison. That's what Penal Code says. And I'll tell you what the situation is now. In an average criminal case, for example, about marijuana or any consumption for personal use, you have this first, a police employee who has to do at least four actions in this case, then you have a State Attorney's Office that has to take at least three actions, then comes the court. So, it's a commissioning machine, there's an artisan that goes up to ten thousand kunas in that little shit, they'd tell an object about a joint up to ten thousand kunas going artificially, and that's what we're wasting money and resources on today. The same people solved their statistics, they processed it. They may not be dealing with a drug dealer because they don't get here because they don't have the money for it. So this is what we want to release the repressive apparatus because they're for the repressive apparatus to deal with dealers and that they can be persecuted. And this current solution, compare the situation to '97 when this was a violation and now that we have more drug consumption? We have now that it's a felony. And the consequences for these victims are more difficult but we haven't talked them out of consumption. That's why we're putting this back on track. Of course you can always say how, why etc. But this is a fact. The fact is, now it's unsustainable. We spend resources on victims instead of drug dealers, and that's the problem with this. And that's why we change it primarily. We want it off the street, we want the kids out of it, but for that, we have to have strength. The power will give us this. As far as addicts are concerned, the Act of Preventing Drug Abuse, and you have up to 20,000 kuna sanctions here. It is not true that he will draw out the one who pays because there is also a replacement by working for the common good. There's a whole series of commitments to be made. So these are the people who will have to get rid of who will enter a system that will be monitored through it but will not enter the criminal record, they will be able to get a job at the ministry tomorrow. Why don't you get a job at the ministry or anywhere? Someone who might be a great student, ended up now we put him in criminal records can't be hired. That's the result of what we have today and what we want to change. And a few more things, you said experts, so I would say this in the adoption of this law that we're changing, all the experts were in order to regulate that violation, he was also representatives of the MUP, the president of the HDZ was now a minister. His representatives have been served to show that he wants it to be a violation and now we are questioning the minds of experts because the expert working group in the adoption of this last law was all to be treated in violation, which later changed by a political decision. Just like today's working group was. They're experts, I said, from the police, the state's attorneys, they were then and now they are. These documents are people who haven't changed their minds, they've treated them the same way. It's about these, of course we could discuss it a lot and they'll always argue. There was a question that countries had that they didn't have. That's where we put what countries they have. Some of the countries that don't have any violations as such can't even have a criminal solution because what we have as a violation don't know legislation now. We're going to be 28 countries so there won't be 6 of them will be 7 who will have them this way, so there's a trend if you want. So, a whole series of things says in favor of this. But let's not let us waste resources to stuff statistics that's not something that needs to be treated any other way, not in this part of it, but in all of it. So look at the charges, the descriptions, the job that's being done for it, and then you get rid of one less subject. What subject? One joint. That's the situation. There were other things I don't know about gambling, that it's only when it's organised publicly and one that means publicly where everyone is present and it's supposed to go to jail if it's such a punishment and there's a criminal law that has to act non-infringing. So it's not when someone's home card, look at the description, it's exactly what I'm talking about. That question also opened up a close person, a family, see how it was solved. We are now under the current law that we want to change into a family of former spouses, it is absurd. We're also putting him in a close person right now. Why? Because we want to protect women, children from such phenomena that occur from people who were once close to each other. But it's not a family as it says in the law now, and the law is wrong about the current one, and we're changing it. So it may be a technical arrangement but it shows correction, repair of the law. So I'm not going to prolong this I just wanted to look back at the debate so far because it seemed to me that what you've opened up about reporting and starting to have some doubts, so the intended crime we're not touching, it's now in the Penal Code, voted out as it is. The crime we commit is a confessional secret and we introduce it, and as a principle we protect it, we estimate it to be greater good than persecution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20859	Minister, you can contact me after every debate in 10 minutes. Now you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20860	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20861	Thank you very much. We have a replica on this exhibit of yours. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20862	Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, only this doubt may cause yours what's written in your explanation. It is therefore clear that there are two criminal offences not to report the preparation of the crime and not to report the offence committed. You said there was no protection that there were no exceptions to not reporting for the preparation of the crime, it's not true. For family members, this is the case if a criminal offence is prepared for up to 5 years, so family members do not have a criminal offence unless they report the preparation of a criminal offence from this is excluded by lawyers and confessors etc. However, in this second non-disclosure of the crimes committed, you have therefore extended this confessional secret and to the crimes committed to the harm of children. But I'm reading your explanation where you quoted the contract with St. The chair shall be referred to Article 8(2). It prescribes that the confession of a secret in any case incurable which means, etc., etc. if the contract really states that in any case the confession is non-injurious, then it is non-injurious, and in particular I don't know how you would carry out this crime in Article 301 and how you would find out what was said in the confession, but it's not so important right now. As for gambling and Article 237, you didn't quite answer me because I was just asking about this scholarship, so it's said who without the approval of the competent authority is public event, coast or promoting gambling, I asked if it was only about the organizer and promoter or the person who's playing, so who's consummating it, so who's playing luck. And this is about Article 190. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20863	And that's it. Ministers, you have the right to respond to this replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20864	Thank you very much. I'd just look back on this non-logination of what was done and preparation. So as I was saying, not reporting for a criminal offence is something that was solved by the Penal Code a year ago and something, you put it on, so there it was, most of it voted. And what's been solved in relation to the confessional secret is written, and we now have what was in relation to the confessional secret and the lawyers, and as far as the beginning is concerned, so that's all there is on the table, here we don't propose an amendment to 301, just 302, and why is 301, that's not what I'm going to get into. But we solve means 302. And in 302. we introduce the principle of protection of certain secrets against all crimes. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20865	On behalf of the second proposer, the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar has now come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20866	My colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, in explaining some of the provisions of the Government's proposal for the Penal Code, you have called for the positions of the section. If it is well known to me, this same expert working group has also considered this proposal to amend the Penal Code, so I would like to hear such a point of view came the section on this proposal for intervention in the law. And to explain and repeat again, it is not important for us in the Laburists, and it is not the goal for employers to be prosecuted or prosecuted, but for workers to come to their salaries or for confirmation of unpaid wages. The worker has no use for it if the employer pays 100,000 fines and doesn't pay the salary and doesn't give him confirmation. Infringement sanctioning, which is now part of labour legislation, is protection and state because, under this law, contributions are included, not only net wages. This is clear in paragraph 5 of Article 132. That is why we have prepared a proposal to amend the Penal Code which, in its finality, is preventive to stimulate employers under the threat of prosecution that they are more profitable, more just, more responsible to adhere to the law than to come under its attack. Why? If we have already granted the Penal Code a non-payment of salaries due to a blocked account or a lack of money, we shall exempt it from criminal liability and give the possibility, which is paragraph 4 of the article, that if the employer subsequently pays the salary to be released. It shall read in paragraph 4 of Article 132. So it was also the proposal's intention, not to condemn it, but to get the worker to receive the salary. We continue that the crime will be non-payment of wages, non-confirmation and will be released if he subsequently pays his salary but has previously given confirmation. So we re-stimulate him, give him confirmation, if you decide to pay your salary, you'll be released. The only goal we have all the time, under the threat of sanctions, is to stimulate workers' rights to be respected and nothing else. Infringement sanctioning, there's no stimulation. He is not motivated by anything to pay his salary or to confirm because his punishment or his height is sometimes tenfold lower than his obligations to the workers. And if we offer the employers a compromise solution in the Penal Code, when the criminal proceedings have begun, when the existence of a criminal offence has been established and you've given confirmation and then you pay your salary, you won't be punished. As a result, we do not propose this out of reason, only because of the desire for prosecution to be carried out against as many employers as possible than that the three-year sentence threatens him if he does not perform under these circumstances under which the existing Article 132 offers. Yeah, it's actually prevention. Yes, it is stimulating, stimulating, upholding the law, obeying the obligations of workers, and even by following your obligations, you avoid the punishment prescribed in the Penal Code. If the violation provision had been sufficient, and it's been in effect since '95, would we have had the situation so many payouts without any sanctioning? If a violation threat were enough, would employers be so easily wrong about the law? No, I don't. So we have experience that a criminal threat, by punishing as a violation, does not give effect and now we have to take a step further. And I think it is well set up in Article 132 as an incentive to release penalties if it subsequently pays the salary provided that it has also given a certificate, provided that the issue of the certificate is made easy to avoid penalties in Article 132. That's our only goal. Will you, Mr. Minister, use other terms, different provisions with the same consequences quite no matter if you accept the principle that non-confirmation is something that must be sanctioned and the offer referred to in paragraph 4 is how to avoid punishment when they have already entered the criminal offence. The only motive. And I don't see any reason not to accept it. Because if the Government or the Ministry seriously thinks about accepting and regulating this issue, if I have good information about the expert working group's position on this, then in the second reading, the Government's proposal will include a change and addition of Article 132. We will be pleased, our proposal will be rejected but in criminal law it will be settled on the government's proposal. We'll be happy again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20867	Thank you. And the other promoter is replicated by the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20868	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Lesar, I agree entirely with you that criminal punishment, especially when a penalty is prevented, is not enough in this case nor in the case of non-payment of wages, but neither in the case of possession of drugs for its own purposes for the reason that absolutely what we have said will happen, and that is that those who have money will pay that criminal penalty. Those who don't end up going to jail or at best working for the greater good. And it's not true that there are other measures, because when a fine is prevented in a misdemeanor procedure, money is sought first, it goes to forced payment. Only when it cannot be forced to charge for it is it replaced by a prison sentence or by a work for the common good. So whoever has the money will pay. And the basic principle of both criminal and criminal punishment is that no one can be paid to anyone. Therefore, as long as the employer can be paid more to suspend the bill and thus prevent the workload from being carried out in his account, which is more savings to him than he would have paid for the criminal penalty until the purpose of punishing any offence, no penalty has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20869	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20870	Comrade Lovrin, I forgot to say it before and repeat it. At this point according to official data in companies and craftsmen who have blocked their accounts for 66265 workers. 54000 employees are officially receiving minimum wage and, according to our assessment, about 30,000 are working in companies to quote this billing formula that lacks money to pay their wages. That's 150,000 people, 150,000 families. If only 15000 were such interventions in criminal law, they would have a social justification, and when it is 150000, then it is necessary to intervene in criminal law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20871	We are now going to an individual debate of 10 minutes. The first one came from a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, with your associates, colleagues and colleagues. With this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, we are in fact rounding and, in the meantime, the whole 2003 novel has been significantly improved. The resistance until you came, Mr. Minister, that is, this government has been inconceivable, and the consequences of the inaction take place today in our courts. Here's the most attention, I'm going to say, is the decriminalization of ownership, i.e. the removal from criminal law and the exclusive transfer to the criminal zone. I will immediately say that what everyone should know, especially those who feel that they are measuringly performing when they say that criminal law is one of the ways society is fighting crime and how successful it is. These are not school discussions, but they tend to be practical solutions. For finding us Mr. Minister in prison. The chaos that the sick sleep with the healthy, that a minor, a random delinquent, is a very dangerous criminal for them who ate that one pill or shared it with someone, so it's a store, that tuberculosis, that you have no place to put them. This is the consequence of the criminal justice policy that has been going on since the end of 2003, and until you came to the ministry, and until you proposed to amend this law, it would be a much better situation. Namely, what we got. We got that criminal law, and that's the wrong policy, and I'm letting someone have the right to win power because it's a matter of government and politics that will consider their grades to be socially harmful behavior. For them, socially harmful behavior was drug possession, and the consequences of this are almost the collapse of the foam system. So he gradually atrophied the repressive apparatus throughout all this time because he had to deal with insignificant things compared to dangers, about what's wrong with the streets. None of them here talked about drug dealers, about manufacturers. A mouthful of danger from drug possession. Now that that's how it goes, let's find out and see the truth from beginning to end. When does this become a crime? In 2007, or sixth, the law entered into force in 2007 so-called a criminal reform, and it becomes a criminal offence. When one of our weeklys announced that drugs were entering Croatia, it began entering Croatia in the 1990s. Then says the weekly under the high patronage of the government. Then the government says it's not true, we'll fight. You see how we fight drugs, and then they introduce drug possession. And whoever little knows who the judge was, who was the lawyer, who was the lawyer or the state's attorney knows that judges and that there's a case law if there's any way around this. And then we discuss how the judges will know. How will the judges know? Because it's their job, because they know it. But what should politicians know and not know? And that's exactly how it led to the drug abuse of those most difficult forms because we, these kids, we lose this mole as witnesses in that chain. They always get from someone up there, and they realize they don't want to find out who gave it to them because then the organization and chain they shut up and confess. It's mostly criminal acts for confession. Or someone pointed at them and was never released if only someone pointed a finger at them. And it seems for some crimes that you need a public notary's credentials. And at that time when it becomes a crime that ceases to be a crime? It ceases to be a criminal offense of the state and a whole series of economic incriminations that were then called against the economy disappears from our criminal law at the same time. So it's a legal basis for the state to steal and the blade to focus on these. Even if the drug lords and the drug mob are booming. And then, in the 1990s, she took root in Croatia. And then who does a discussion like this make out with, a geese and a goose with a fat neck? So there was no place for war profiting to introduce a criminal offence for economic incrimination, they strongly opposed to the last breath. It was only under the pressure of Europe, and we had it all in 2003, and part of it disappeared by their reign in the '90s. So we have terrible consequences about how we've been set up with criminal law. Well, for 10 years, it was possible to steal ore treasure, stones, ore, because it wasn't a crime. But that boy and the little girl went astray, and we don't show this to be socially acceptable behavior, but we say we have medicine for you, you'll be treated, and you'll pay for it, but you'll be used as witnesses because you're obliged to testify who gave it to you. Now let's talk about how the police are gonna do it, everyone's gonna say it's for drug possession. So you know that even when the crime wasn't the possession of drugs, that the defense of everyone was that it was for him to own drugs, then it was determined in every procedure whether it was possession or not. Well even now at this point while he's possession of drugs every one of them who's accused of trading goes on a milder form so he says it's not for my own personal needs. Thus, in every procedure so far, it is a matter of speech. Those who are for quantities so the trial is not administration, so not judges, the trial is the most complex intellectual activity. And someone who is not an addict, and who has been proven not to be, and even the smallest amounts are known to be for trade and will be sanctioned. But a heavy addict, well there were such cases, and the case-law was rich if he bought it and it was proven to be for his use because such circumstances were so much more determined as for his use and it was from the Supreme Court and accepted until they had less quantities and at least the quantities where it was proven not to be an addict, a fan than that he took for another or that the resales of such persons were convicted. Therefore, there is no more to it, no more to waste words. Criminal legislation should indeed be used for the most severe forms of damage to protected goods and for socially dangerous deeds. And that's exactly what economic crime is, and these are the acts you're talking about, which have become a major problem for us, and these are traffic factors that cause serious trouble. Discussing this and not having the insight and consideration to take the Report of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 means being absolutely unprepared and means not talking about the true essence of the matter. Here you will see, therefore, our criminal legislation has as mild as possible, which makes the basic forms more mild and more difficult than 750 incriminations. Now you'll see on the page. 146 The State's Attorney's report for the past year, every year, speak both judges and state lawyers who easily break the norm on this one, remove it from us. Well, it's not a serious job for a judge who's been on the job for 10 and 20 years. And yet another reminisce about how it was a strong struggle when the possession of drugs was introduced and these more difficult forms that were being set up by a non-oee of the three, what five than a council of seven, which was of that mockery, it lasted a month and a half because they saw that an absolutely blocked complete system, i.e. the court. So here's what the involvement of drug abuse crimes is in the overall reported crime. With the possession of drugs ranging from 75 to 80% of the total crimes committed from that head of drug abuse. So drug abuse in Dubrovnik County is 24%. What's the judge gonna do if 24% of this is all they're dealing with? In Pula 23%, in Sibenik 12.8%, in Split also, in Vukovar over 13%, in Zadar almost 16%, in Zagreb almost 13%, etc., etc. What else will the judges do? Therefore, I absolutely support these changes that will improve our criminal legislation and direct the edge of those dangerous and most dangerous criminals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20873	Thank you, too. We have three replicas reported to this exhibit. First respected representative, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20874	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Anticevic, that would be according to your exposure. The young won't be punished for the joint, and then you'll get used to it, and then when you get hooked you'll have to be drug dealers so you can pay for your addiction. That's right. It was proven or actually in the polls 50% of the young people said they didn't want to take the joint because the crime was 50% of them stopped. What's to stop them now? So most of those young people I talk to and talk to a lot of them said they started with weed, that they started with a joint, when the drugs weren't enough anymore, then they went after something harder, so it's not easy drugs, or it's not easy for them to get smart anymore because they're not going to be punished or they're going to be punished. I repeat, they all started with joints when they weren't enough they started on heroin or whatever we're talking about and now we're telling them you have no problem getting high because it's no longer a criminal act. He also says that we need to punish ourselves with this way of life. Well, life style, we have some of the latest phones, too. Is that kid supposed to go rob a bank now or some kind of store and take that cell phone because that's the lifestyle he has to have? We finally want to turn to these young people and stop them from taking drugs, show what drugs are and what drugs are, and not wait for them to get used to being small dealers because that's the only way they can pay for their addiction. So let's not turn to the children now, let's not run politics and talk about what's better for this government than what's best for our children, and for our children, it's the best prevention when they know exactly what's waiting for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20875	The replica corresponds to the respected Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20876	You know what we say to this bill? Just in the interest of children and young people. You drug dealers, you high-ranking drug lords at donor dinners, you steal for poisoning your children, and those who held your booth in one way or another, pretending to be someone and someone unconscious, it's ringing your bell. That's what you should think about. What's the nature of criminal law? It does not mean that any conduct permitted must be a criminal offence and that is harmful to the offence. It is the criminal right of entry that these laws occur in the ultimaration of the legal order, when nothing helps anymore, when everything has failed then comes criminal law. But that's criminal law theory. That the theory of it is therefore about some basic postulates and principles that every legislator thinks about and which has never been abandoned has never been abandoned and not in the darkest times, nor in the darkest times has this theory that criminal law occurs when everything else is exhausted. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20877	The second replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20878	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Members of Anticevic, you said that judges are not officials and that they assess the difference between ownership or resale in each case, and I agree with you absolutely and have done so so far. But when something is in the area of criminal proceedings, then they have the opportunity to ask for a search warrant to see if anyone has any scales at home or any kind of device and then to conclude they're eating something intended for resale or their own use. However, this arbitration that you are now objecting to the courts and the state's attorneys if you bring it down to the police. Imagine that you are today an opposition to what you would say to us, to the executive authority you are putting it in your hands so that every time a police officer decides whether to initiate a misdemeanor procedure or to file criminal charges. So his free judgment depends on it. Furthermore, you said you'd gone after the dealers of this sentence have been prevented so far for dealers and reselling. Although you have raised from 10 to 12 years maximum punishment, it would be good to see the data on the penalties imposed is mostly never a problem that the low maximum penalty is prevented because in principle you do not express the most prescribed penalties, so this will remain a dead letter on paper to me. And as far as dealing around the school is concerned, this punishment of 3 to 15 years has been prevented as a specific form. But I don't know here now maybe you can tell me if you know the reason why in Article 6 of Article 190 of the incrimination is the exception of the person who gives to the use of substances that can be used to make the substance referred to in paragraph 1 so the drug is now incriminating the one who makes, acquires and owns but is thrown out of incrimination by the one who gives it into use I don't see any reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20879	Time. You, I remind you, have replicated my colleague Antičević Marinović. She's not the legislator to ask her a question, but here she may use the answer to the replica to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20880	This is an incrimination that has been known in our criminal law from before she's dressed up, and judges know how to handle it perfectly. I'll tell you that again. It does not say anywhere, therefore, that everyone knows that criminal offences are reported, therefore, those are the provisions of the general act and those provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. So, if the police are going to do this from where a serious suspicion is now being made of the police and I can tell you, let's look at this and what has been the legal certainty so far, too, you will have in the report that the rejection of criminal offences in this type of crime has been the greatest. That was the biggest. And that just led to some discrepancy, and even a discrepancy between the police and the state's attorney's office, and while there's no agreement that's been violated until recently, you can't be successful, especially as the new CAP has been set up that the police have to work under the orders of the state's attorney and that there are no two lines of command. But she's been silent until now, but she won't. So where do you find such suspicions about the police that they will abuse or, of course, everyone has to abuse? They should not believe in anyone in advance, but that they will judge it themselves. Well, that's what they've been doing so far. And the state's attorney's office rejected it, but it depends, well here, my colleagues said it caused legal certainty. Someone ended up in prison, and someone was rejected. Is that legal security? So you think Croatia is America so you don't know what's going on in Vukovar, which is in Dubrovnik. So what kind of picture does it give us, according to the legislators? So things suggest there's something wrong with the law. So you have nothing else but, if that's your ideologies question, well, that's your approach, this is our commitment, and we think it'll be effective and fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20881	Replication to the basic exhibition also brings up the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20882	Dear fellow Members, I am particularly concerned by the reasoning of this law, which among other things says that in modern criminal law, they give up punishment for style under which, among other things, they understand the vagrants, the use of alcohol, the use of drugs, the use of prostitution, and so on. On the other hand, such a lifestyle is inappropriate for Croatia, and this law is first and foremost legal for the long-standing intent of decriminalisation of easy ones, and it is difficult to separate today which are easy, and which are heavy drugs and, in practice, this law reduces them to a violation. No one casts that suspicion on the police but rather the efficiency of the entire system. Many cured drug addicts or drug addicts are often shown at certain gatherings as heroes, but the efficiency of the system has never led to recognition of where he obtained the first joint or marijuana. It is difficult in this law even to separate what amounts are needed for personal use. If I were a junkie, I might need 3 kg of heroin a day given how this government is leading Croatia and how it lives in Croatia, so I'd probably be looking for an escape from this difficult reality with nearly 350,000 unemployed, and on the other hand it's practically decriminalized and that personal use that I think is extremely bad and that it won't start to disappear drug dealers, drug lords rather than the other way around. There will be more and more drugs and more and more addicts in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20883	And this replica corresponds to the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20884	I like it when you said it should be efficient, but the system so far as it has shown speaks precisely in favor of not even talking about efficiency, even that curve that shows some kind of slight fall in ownership if you add rejection to these crimes then you will see that we have not become effective. But what happened, not only did we not become effective in the repression of this evil but we drowned, I repeat, the blade of criminal law and captured simply and the state's attorney's office, the police, the entire repressive system and the judicial authority to deal with this alone, and it dealt ineffectively. So we have to do something. No one's saying it's acceptable behavior. Society wants to react, the state wants to react differently. If you have the last pyramid in that pyramid and no one says it's socially acceptable behavior, and everyone's right to say that they'll most likely bring them in to enjoy a long time that they may become merchants themselves, but let's turn that pyramid upside down and start punishing because we're going to get these people. You said yourself, they never reveal and they won't find out. This is how they will find out, and they will be punished for sure when they discover it will be a relief to them because now that he discovers he is in a chain and in a network, he and his criminal will are greater. He is an accomplice in all of this, or co-executor. ... Could be. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's hard to think about it that way. So now he's encouraged to reveal because I'm going to tell him it's going to be a significantly extenuating circumstance in the offense, so he won't get that kind of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20885	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is next to the respected representative Martina Banic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Key amendments and additions to the Penal Code that we are discussing today concern drugs, confessional secrets, illegal betting and gambling and wild gliding. Amendments to the new Penal Code to possess intoxicating drugs for personal use will no longer be a criminal offence, confessional secret is once again uninjured, all games of chance without appropriate permits are punishable and criminal liability is imposed for so-called. Hanged sailing. In my debate, I will look back today on the most important and crucial amendment of the law regarding drug abuse. Namely, a provision on the punishment of possession for personal use has been deleted. Those who possess drugs for their own purposes from now on will face a fine of 5 to 20 thousand kuna instead of prison sentences for up to 6 months. I take the opportunity to remind myself that, according to the 2009-2012 Action Plan, drug abuse has increased the supply of drugs that has become more diverse, while at the same time increasing the availability of drugs, which has led to an increased trend of drug consumption, especially among young people and the risk of drug abuse in society. Data show that among treated subjects there are still the most opiate addicts, as much as 76.4%. Croatia lost 1500 young people to 21 last year. Not long ago we saw a survey among Zagreb high school students and a survey that increased marijuana consumption among high school students by 10.5%. In 2007, marijuana took 20.5% of high school students and 31% in 2011. Since there are 2 to 7 drug addicts in Croatia, it can be said that we belong to European countries where the average prevalence of drug abuse is. But unfortunately, still with the upward trend. This phenomenon is one of the most negative phenomena that, depending on the degree of expansion and also the way society acts and responds to this problem, can pose a real risk to the stability of a particular country and have a significant impact on overall economic and social development. These are some of the reasons why I personally oppose amendments to the Penal Code that the government suggests that drug possession for its own purposes is no longer considered a criminal offence but a violation. I believe that such a proposal is not good because it tells young people but also to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia that drugs are just the most normal thing, and not that it is one of the key problems that destroys more and more families year by year, and it also takes away many young lives. Legal changes on the one hand we have a transfer of drug possession to our own needs in the criminal sphere. At the same time, however, the provisions of the same article of the new Penal Code relating to production, transfer and smuggling and the supply of drugs intended for trafficking were strengthened and extended. The suspended penalty for the production, sale or mediation of drugs has been increased from 10 to 12 years in prison. The most severe punishment is up to 15 years in prison. It is provided for those involved in the distribution of drugs to children in a school near school and in a penitentiary. The same applies to the use of children for drug dealing or for the purpose of doing so by an official. It's an unscheduled solution, because it would mean that it's legal to do drugs, and it's illegal to buy drugs, because I buy drugs at a drug dealer's place, not in a pharmacy as a cure. We continue to face another problem of insufficient concreteity in the law. It is difficult to determine the quantity for personal use, which is the quantity for resale. Proposers of legal changes have avoided saying why they have not decided to legally quantify drugs that are for personal use. I believe that we all agree that it's very difficult, except in extreme cases, to find out what the real intention of a drug person is. Whether it's a sale or a possession for its own use. This is most often not immediately determined, especially on the spot, and depending on whether a person goes into criminal or criminal proceedings. I'm afraid that this will create a large space for speculative evaluation, instead of immediately determining in the law what quantities of each drug are allowed for personal use. I would like to remind you that, not long now, by discussing the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which we have all said that drugs are the greatest evil and that young people in this regard are one of the more risky groups. We also said that we should do everything possible to solve the problem of drug abuse. Today, not a month later, the story is different. I therefore point out that according to the 2011 Croatian Institute of Public Health in Croatia, 7665 people are treated from various forms of drug addiction, and for the first time last year, as many as 1153 people. The problem should be answered by doing everything possible to prevent drug abuse, and decriminalisation of easy drugs will certainly not help. Decriminalisation of easy drugs can only deepen the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20887	Thank you very much. We have five replicas on your exhibit. The first is Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20888	My colleague Banic, you are illogical first. You're right to say we've been having an increase in the number of consumables lately. Now that it's a crime to consume, and then you object to it being abolished as a crime. And you know why we have an increase in the number of consumables? Well, because the police are dealing with these consumables, and they're not dealing with drug dealers, so the dealers are working freely. The other thing you're saying is that the government is saying that they're legally on drugs. Who's ordering that? Why are you telling the truth? You're repeating the lie your boss Karamarko was telling on TV the other day when he said here's the government telling these orders young people you can get free drugs. That won't be punishable anymore. That's not true! That's a lie! It's just a lie! They'll be penalized, but they'll be punished, it won't be legal. Consuming won't be legal. Let's figure it out! And a third thing. What enemy? Who in this society is the enemy? Consumables or drug dealers? If your consumers are enemies, let's not change the law perfectly. Let's lock them all up for life! But they're not my enemies. To me, enemies are dealers. They're obviously supposed to be supported for you, and the police shouldn't be involved in them. Let him deal with these consumables, let him deal with patients, let him deal with addicts, let him deal with drug dealers? No, they need to be left alone. You need to hire the police around the consumables so they have more room to work. So what's the logic? So what logic is that, colleague Banic? So what's in our interest? Save these young people or punish them? So who's our enemy? Who's our enemy? Let's figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20889	Reply to the replica of colleague Martina Banić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20890	Thank you very much. I mean Mr. Stazic, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, you're certainly also lying when you say we're protecting dealers. As far as I know, there's been a 10-year sentence for drug dealers. Now that sentence has been increased to 12 years. I agree that punishment should be increased for dealers and that they are the ones, let's say the main culprits. But consumers buy drugs from drug dealers and buy drugs because they have money. So, we're going to today, we're talking about going from more criminal responsibility to criminal responsibility and here we're talking about again, that they mean who's going to have money will pay, so he's going to give 5000 kuna, and whoever doesn't have money he's going to jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20891	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20892	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have just been exhibiting yourself, so you stated that the secondary population has increased marijuana consumption by over 10%. I think that's the best argument, so this system hasn't been effective so far, that it's no good, that we have to change the way we fight. And these arguments, which state the results of surveys, according to which as many as 50% of some high school students gave up using marijuana because it was a crime. Obviously, these allegations of yours are also questionable. It's just not true. So, the way we're fighting so far, we've got to change something. Nor has the social awareness of the danger been changed, but even more so with this treatment as a criminal offense, there may even be some rebellion and even greater acceptance of it in the high school population. That's the impression based on the results of what we're having right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20893	The next replica, the esteemed representative Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20894	Dear colleagues here, I'd say about turning the story. So, the police will no longer talk and argue not to deal with consumables but rather to deal with big bosses, drug lords or drug dealers big ones, etc. However, who will write the offenses? Police again. So, both works and more will waste time writing that violation order that will go to the judge for violations because they will not be able to charge a fine on the spot as they no longer charge for traffic offences and the proceedings will be lengthy, etc. And yet again, the same police won't be able to deal with big things, etc. However, here it is clear and loud to say that almost 90% of consumers become small dealers. It's definitely shown, Mr. Trazic, and in practice. So, if the consummation isn't moving, it might start with a white Marlboro or Benston so no one understands this as a cigarette ad, comes to marijuana, maybe it needs 10 packets, it's hard to figure out what's for a personal need if someone really likes to get high in this extremely difficult economic situation and go towards harder drugs. But 90% of them become drug dealers. And it's not just about the high school population anymore, it's about the primary school where those who enjoy the charms of marijuana resell to small children and harder types of drugs from synthetics to these hot cocaine and heroin, etc. So, it's not true that the police will deal with these organized drug crimes more now than they will deal with reconsummation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20895	Thank you very much. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Martina Banić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I agree with my colleague Vinkovic. I also claim that no one will stop the police from dealing with drug lords, that's not what we're stopping them from doing now. And I don't believe these changes to the law that the police are going to increase their work exactly on drug lords. And I believe that together we can all agree that the very small and thin border is also between consumers and dealers. Because now that we're gonna prove whether I'm just a consumer and whether the drugs I have on me are for my own use or if I'm gonna go around the corner and sell them to someone I have.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20897	Thank you very much. Before we continue with the replicas one notice. Today at 13.30 a session of the Justice Committee will be held at the "Ivan Kukuljevic" hall. And now we continue with the replicas. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20898	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members, this is, as you said conveniently, consumption is legal and purchase is illegal. That's cute. Here's the attack on that vice president of the Parliament to protect the dealers because you're trying to incriminate consumption. I really don't know why such difficult words, so the Penal Code and the one now in application and the one that should have started to apply since 1.01.2013, are intruding and obstructed by drug dealers and increased penalties, it seems to me in 2007. etc. Therefore, there is no way to protect drug dealers. But now there's one more question. These amendments to the law are incriminating something else, as a special item says who unauthorized to produce or process substances, I guess I don't know if there's a planting of marijuana, so no one remembered that one might be a good student great, etc., here now if he's enjoying a joint he'll end up on the offense, but let's say if he plants two marijuana stems, please, then again he'll be held responsible, and there'll be a lot of questions about what now when it's for his own use and use if I buy drugs for my own use, then I'm in the breaking sphere, so if I go to the dealer, I buy drugs from him then I'm in the breaking sphere, but if I plant two marijuana trees on my balcony, then I'm in the criminal sphere for up to three years. So that's something that just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20899	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20900	Dear and young colleague Banic, I think it's still time for you, thinking about your youth, to get out of this party machine that in a certain way forces you to repeat as a mantra something that has nothing really to do with what this proposal wants to turn into law. Indeed, no one is smart enough to make any form of drugs legal, etc. So it's clear to you that the HDZ in its law had the same solutions by 1997. Then why were you against yourself? And for a wonderful miracle when you transferred to the Penal Code then increased the number, not reduced the consummation. Well, it's obvious that the intention is to hit where it should be hit, and that's what's on white that produce etc. They're very rich. And you're going to ruin someone's life that a joint set fire to what they won't be able to do, what the minister explained very well, a series of jobs, may be a great student, etc. So what do we intend to do, help young people punish criminals or do we do the opposite? So, I really don't see the reason for that insistence of yours by a HDZ law firm and some other party that's getting high, he's insisting on proving what a blind man assumes isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20901	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Martina Banić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20902	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Jurevic, I spoke here on behalf of most young people. I don't think we're gonna protect young people safely by telling them that drugs are available, drugs are normal, it's normal to smoke one joint, two, three it's perfectly normal and perfectly fine. I don't know if you guys come home and you tell your kid, we're gonna light up a joint, right? That's so great. I don't know, Mr. Jurovic, who here has a mantra and who keeps repeating the SDP or HDZ mantra. I don't have any mantra, but I speak for myself, among other things, and I don't think drugs are anything that's okay. And just keep throwing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20903	I'd like to ask you to establish some kind of peace and order in the assembly so that we can work uninterruptedly to give every opportunity to sign up to speak. Sandra Petrovic is the next to report for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20904	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I think, unlike my colleague Banic, I speak for young people in my debate. I wasn't planning on it, but I'm going to start with a fictional situation. Like, for example, as a 4-year-old law student, if I had lit up a joint at a party and had had it in my hands that the police had come and found me with that joint in my hand, I couldn't get into the Chamber of Lawyers, I couldn't do my job, and I was so eager to wait for the end of my college and my degree in law school, here. I'll continue again with one figure or one imaginary approach. At a party, for example. Sits six, seven, ten people don't matter and rolls with a joint, rolls a joint maybe some of these people alcoholized barriers have caved and the joint comes back to the police and decides to process all these young people sitting at that party. What I am personally more interested in than processing these young people who were sitting at a party, who sold them drugs? It's a question I'd like to deal with, and that's why I support the amendment to this law. I don't think the police now had any obstacles or that they couldn't deal with drug dealers and couldn't process them, but simply the police didn't do it because this approach was easier. If every year in the DORH report in the State's Attorney's Office's report we get statistics on committing crimes and if the first place is taken up by property delinquencies, and the second place takes up drug abuse, and from that abuse that takes place on the 2nd place, the most common are the consummations or criminal acts that are now moving into the criminal sphere, then I ask you what is it that burdens the Croatian judiciary? Drug consumption, consumption of one joint burdening the Croatian judiciary? Expensive long-term criminal proceedings that he leaves behind, leaving certain stigmas to the individual who has been processed, I think that's enough reason for this crime to finally move into the criminal sphere. The misdemeanor procedure is cheaper, he's faster, and I think that in any case, he said that the minister that we didn't under the Penal Code couldn't do it in such an effective way as we would be able to impose sanctions on the treatment measure of addiction. So prevention and treatment of addiction exactly help people who are consumers if they're addicts. If they're not addicts if they're occasional users, they're people who are healthy enough to get out of hell of drugs. I also think it is possible to focus institutions on prevention. Prevention and information on the dangers of drugs is extremely important, so from educational institutions like I said before, and the health care institution, I think they should all work on the education of young people even to move on and bring in other than educators or lecturers who will point to the dangers of drugs even talking to former addicts. So it's former drug addicts who can firsthand point to young people the real dangers that drug consumption carries. I think that once a child or a teenager of 16 or 17 who is first in touch with drugs, whose drugs are offered, very little in life means whether it's a crime with a suspended sentence of 6 months, or whether it's a criminal penalty of 5 to 20 thousand kuna. I think when he's 16 years old, he can barely understand what he is, I think he can barely understand what the dangers he is threatened by because they are his formal years. I think it's a family education that should be raised both by family and school, which should draw him away, which is to prevent him from even using drugs for the first time. I'm going to go into my discussion and step further, so I'm going to point out that I'm not going to say the medicinal properties of marijuana as a drug, no, but I'm going to point out the use of marijuana in patients who are in terminal stages of the disease. So these are patients, this is one completely different approach to this debate, I don't think anyone's ever looked back this way. So these are consumables that are in the terminal stages of their disease, like cancer or leukemia or some other serious illness that last of their moments of life, it's a psychologically extremely difficult period, an extremely difficult situation for an individual to endure. These are people who would like to make things easier for themselves by eating a joint. Also, I don't want to say now that drugs are the only dangers that can help in such situations. Some people are terminally ill with alcohol to make life easier, and some other difficult psychological situations are also, I will only mention that plane crash over Vrbovac when residents of that village over which the plane crashed in a very difficult and stressful situation were given to help clear things up that flew and people. They were given brandy to get drunk and to deal with this extremely stressful situation. I think it's the same parallel as the drug consumption of terminally ill people. Let us warn young members of society about the dangers of drugs, let us not lead them before a criminal court, not the last measure of repression that the state has the right to use to practice against the youngest or vulnerable members of society. Let's deal with the dealers, and let's not let the little things get in the way of seeing us and dealing with the big ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20905	We have three replicas reported to this exhibit. The first responds to the replica, the esteemed representative, Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20906	Thank you very much. My colleague Petrovic, this is not a quiz, it is not you who speak for the young. Young people are not one-minded, so on behalf of young people everyone can speak for themselves in front of their electoral bodies their political option and worldview, for them to stand up for. So much for that. And the second thing you said hypothetically was that you would be smoking one joint at a party somewhere, so you could no longer sign up to the bar, so you'd have to be convicted of this crime first, and you were reading a report on the work of the state's attorney's office, reading statistics from which you could read that only 37 minors were convicted throughout the year, and that's probably relapsies or those who tend to deal. So for a smoked one joint, you wouldn't be prevented from doing a lawyer's profession or hypothetically. What did you say about that if you were more interested in who sold the young people at the party joint or drugs, and you see this bill and also the bill that was to come into force 1.1.2013 provides in Article 190 that the perpetrator of the acts in all of the articles of Article 190 can be released if it contributes to the discovery of exactly who sold him the drugs. There is no infringing legislation, therefore, through this very criminal act it was possible for these young people to be freed from consummation if they helped discover the drug dealer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20907	Second replica, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20908	I have to admit that by mentioning that fiction, she really showed it up, so here I am, and I'm going to start my own replica once with a fiction that I'm a sick father, and I'm coming home and I'm going to say, come on, son or daughter roll up a joint, or give me one shot, so I'm going to give myself a little shot, and that's one fiction that could also lead to one of these situations. Here's what my colleague said really about that higher bill you could have been released if you only smoked one joint, but if you had 20 such joints in your pocket then you were a dealer. And as for the difference between these young people who are consumers, I claim that 90 of them become those petty dealers while these big dealers, considering this new bill, will not, in any case, trade much more, but simply will distribute the package by package and that first of all, we will not get to who gave it to or sold it to anyone else. We're not just talking about easy drugs, easy drugs for our own use. We're also talking about heavy drugs for our own use. So, you're going to make violations of smoking one joint of marijuana or injecting a kilo of heroin into yourself, you're probably not going to stay alive, but there are also resilient ones. But as far as this brandy is concerned, it's been said in Slavonia that when people went to work, they'd been mowing and working. In the summer of those heavy farm jobs, drinking brandy to stop her thirst. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] I say they drank brandy because what a fool would do in that great sun and heat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20909	The replica matches the respected Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20910	Thank you very much. I didn't answer my colleague, Lovrin. I didn't pick up the tablet. So, fellow Members, you said that...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20911	Look, you can't! My colleague Petrovic you can answer...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20912	But I can say anything in response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20913	You can't! Yeah, but you can't say it like this right now. Well, you can't, I can't let you do that. So read the Rules of Procedure! You can speak to your colleague Vinkovic or do not respond to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20914	All right, then I'll answer my colleagues to Vinkovic. So, my colleague Vinkovic thinks that some of the drugs that you've been talking about even less affecting people's health than it does alcohol and it's proven both medical and social, because alcohol is a much more dangerous thing for us in our region than it is for drugs. I think that's it, so I think that this prevention of alcohol addiction is something we should deal with as well as drug addiction prevention. As for the processing of drug-consuming minors, however, it is the fact that they, that they are freed in the process, but in a misdemeanor procedure, I think that they can be much better helped in an out-of-institutional and institutional way so that they do not take drugs anymore, so that their addiction can be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20915	Third and last replica, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20916	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of mine who spoke résumés and perhaps with a language that young people would understand, but maybe I can also get the wrong message and go all wrong with Drin. Let's just say if you're young people drink that's the fact that that's the problem. Maybe it's better if they took it, we've got good ham muffins, we've got a tower, we've got a nut jam, and we've got mac and stuff like that than a joint showing up here. And when we speak kindly of someone in society bringing a joint, it's already dangerous, then it's someone in that society who was either not with you or with another dealer. So, we shouldn't kindly look at some situations. We can speak with a language that young people will understand. Our message should be clear to them that it is dangerous, that they can go wrong in their lives and that in some ways their entire life can change in the years ahead. Because it's both a phase and a weaker learning, it's a phase of avoiding teaching, it's a phase of drinking, it can't all be lifestyle because it's not good. And that everything is harmful is harmful. But it also says the fact that let's say it's a glass of black wine with some lunch that it's not so bad that it's healthy. Therefore, there is always something for and against. But here is the core of our today's problem that the Penal Code that changes to see if it will be a sphere of offense with a fine or a sphere of the Penal Code with those 6 months and work for the common good. And our message should not be that someone treats us kindly, so great, that's what they said, so we can think a little bit about the depth of the problem and start to solve these problems precisely by this Law and precisely by fighting the entire society in prevention. That should be the core, first prevention then punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20917	The replica matches the respected Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20918	I agree with my colleague Salapić that young people in Croatia, or in general in society around the world, have been following a series of dangers that they might stumble on either drugs, alcohol, or these muffins that you mentioned with ham and cheese or coolen. These are, for example, dangers that lead to obesity and heart disease. But that's why I'm telling you that prevention is crucial -- prevention, information, healthy life, promotion of sports activities, healthy diets, healthy lifestyles, records or control of schoolwork, my student obligations, I think it can be very helpful to reduce drug consumption or even access to drugs for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20919	Thank you, too. On behalf of one of the law's legislators, the word is now requested by the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20920	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would say at first that drugs are not the biggest problem in Croatia, so I will talk about the more difficult problem, and that is the problem that we were talking about at the beginning and that we are trying to figure out how to balance with replicas, and that is why my report too. It turns out that only workers are unpunished from fundamental rights. Employers don't have money to pay, but they buy expensive cars. Clearly, then, they will not issue any confirmation of the billing of wages that could be paid by that certificate. And that's why there's no record of a salary bill. There's no confirmation, no execution, and the boss is still in a million-dollar car. Those employers who work in this way should be subject to criminal persecution. So far practice actually protects the misdeeds. The more visible the misdemeanor is the more unpunished and the more visible than the non-payment of salaries, and the more visible it is from not giving, the less the receipt of salaries. As many as 150,000 workers are in different ways tangled by non-payment of salaries. So it's about 150 thousand families or even 500, 600 thousand people. And when one eighth of Croatia is damaged, it's time for the alarm. It's time for root reforms to be made in society. But only taxes are rooted and imposed on the weakest. The first reform is the change of the Penal Code in a way that the payment of salaries and the depriving of a certificate of payment of salaries becomes a criminal offence. Society and state must protect the weakest, poorest ones behind whom this Assembly should stand. Some say it's too harsh to prosecute employers who don't give certificates of salary billing. It is too harsh to prosecute means people who violate the fundamental rights of 150 thousand families in Croatia. Too harsh to violate the dignity of one-eighth of Croatian citizens. If the government does not accept this proposal, the Labourist will be proof that this government is also protecting powerful, rich and prone to theft. Because not paying your wages, while buying to spend on luxury means stealing. From who? From the poor. From who? From the workers. So let's say this practice doesn't. When one of the SDP colleagues earlier defended the proposal to decriminalise easy drugs, he said this is an example of left-wing liberal thinking. Right, I respect that attitude and even when it's someone else's, and even when I disagree with him. But the left is also the protection of workers, and so on. "lefties" don't protect us. Their idea is to protect neoliberal capitalism, banks, rich and workers are left to the goodwill of capitalists. It is this proposal of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties is a turning point when we can change that practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20921	Thank you. We have a replica on this exhibit. Dear Representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20922	Thank you. My dear colleague, in your presentation, you constantly state as if now the situation is that non-payment of wages is not a criminal offence. So, the pay default is under Article 132 of this bill says, "Who doesn't pay a share or a full salary once or more workers, that is, a criminal offense." So, on this side of the assembly, it was always intended to criminalise non-payment of wages, so it was intended to sanction such a certain misbehaving, acceptable behavior. I agree that your proposal may be aimed at improving how this legal framework can be further improved and that what is aimed at protecting this criminal provision is even better and more effective so that this goal is achieved as easily and as efficiently as possible. But therefore, the position of this ruling majority is from before and so it entered the Penal Code that non-payment of wages will be a criminal offense. Further aspects of improvement should certainly continue to be considered and I also advise my colleagues in the government to think about it and to even propose certain changes in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20923	The replica corresponds to the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20924	Very short. Dear colleague Pandek, I didn't say what you're saying, I didn't say that. Listen once again and listen carefully to what I was talking about, and I know that it is also now in the Penal Code that pay is not a punishable offense, but it is precisely a practice that enables the payment of wages to continue precisely because of the failure to issue a billing certificate to be an unpunished act. Therefore, this very proposal of Croatian Labourists is very meaningful and we just want to make order, but here you and I agree that we want workers to come to their fundamental rights as easily as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20925	Thank you very much. We don't have 10 minutes left to hear the next individual debate, so I think we've got the conditions to declare a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Next up is Honorable Representative Mladen Novak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20926	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate. Next up is a colleague of Mladen Novak's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20927	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Before this break, two colleagues had a debate that mostly stemmed from the drug part. Given their age, let's say that this is somewhat understandable, but it's also understandable from another aspect because mostly young people can't get to work, so the problem that potential Croatian Labourists don't worry them so much, it's about that non-paid pay certificate. The right to pay is practically not even feasible without that confirmation, the fact that the Penal Code is already a provision that allows it, and if you don't have that confirmation, that doesn't mean anything. For this reason, as I have already said, I welcome your announcement on the Justice Committee and I believe that you will find ways and the only thing I fear will not be that the only reason you will refuse to do so is because it comes from the opposition, or from us. I believe you're also convinced that the proposal is not unreasonable that it's not without reason that you've practically heard of it, too, saying that it's probably the worst curse of "God, we're not." So now we have a situation to tell the workers you have and you don't. You have the right to your salary but you can't achieve it because you can't get confirmation, and that's what's been regulated so far as the offense shows and this information if I'm not mistaken for 100 and something rejected by the DORH. To that end, I would like to mention another bill that goes from this government that is the fiscalization law. When you mention it, you say you need to arrange for the state to be a legal state that it has to work. The same package with the same explanation can also defend this proposal by Croatian Labourists. I believe that you have no reason to say here it's okay that's the right thing to say but we'll refuse for some technical reasons because I don't know the EU rules that have nothing to do with it, I don't know anything else comes to mind but the human imagination never ends, there's always something to be found if it's wanted. So I appeal once again that if you consider anything else on the second reading, put it as some sophisticated, processed model because it's the only hope for these people who don't get paid. What's more to worry about is, let's say, an argument more to our request, let's say yesterday's headline from the media "Every other company in Croatia is at a disadvantage". So we can only expect that it will no longer be given to 80 give 100 and some thousands as someone mentioned today that it will be far more. It'll be far more trouble, but it's not 80,000 workers it's 80,000 families. In her opinion, the government explained that criminal liability and criminal sanctions would be the most difficult means of repressive coercion. And we can agree with that, but that's exactly why this should be built in there to be as the last means of defending those 80,000 or, unfortunately, many more citizens tomorrow. These citizens I don't see at least I don't see any model that they can get those funds that they need at all to survive because it's no longer a luxury anymore that I don't know those mentioned stories about less phone calls to pay for electricity, it doesn't matter. People are supposed to survive, kids are supposed to be educated. In order to achieve that right, I believe that we have been able to convince you, given that every little bit of nod has been approved. I hope that we are and that in the end you will not have to be our proposal, let your proposal be put into another reading something as part of your text and we will be satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20928	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Next colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20929	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, which Croatian Labourers have referred to in the parliamentary procedure, is very simple, short and clear. We do not want to punish anyone but he who obeys the provisions laid down in the Labour Law should not be punished. But one particular question arises as to what this debate was today and where it was said that a large number of workers, more than 80,000 of them do not receive salaries but also a large number of employers who do not meet their obligation and practically deprive workers in their rights and in this part of the right to pay for unpaid wages according to the Labour Act. For the Croatian Labour Labour Party, workers' rights are very important, and with this proposal we are right because this is what we are told and the support we have received from trade union centres that gather over 500,000 members. There is the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia, Independent Croatian Unions, Matica of Croatian Unions, Croatian Union Association of Unions and Association of Workers' Unions of Croatia who support this initiative that Croatian Labourers have sent to the parliamentary procedure. As you Ministers have said, when it comes to the Law on the Use of Light Drugs, then you suggest, out of criminal responsibility, that it goes into violation provisions. So clearly the Croatian Labourists also have what is now in the infringement provisions according to the Labour Act propose to do so, and it is for the issue of a certificate for unpaid wages to be converted into criminal provisions. And I don't think there are any obstacles when we talk about achieving the final rights of workers in that section and there's no change in legal provisions. What I would also like to say is that at the end of September we have passed a new Executive Act, which entered into force on 15 October, which allowed them to make direct payments on cash claims through the Financial Agency on the basis of powerful judicial and executive decisions and on the basis of a confirmation by employers of non-payments of wages, salary and severance fees. We have one law, and what happens now if the employer doesn't deliver the bill to the unpaid workers, so there's no pay, no reckoning, no commission because there's no ID to be carried out and no execution. The law in force in Article 294(1) of point 51 provides for an infringement measure for employers, a legal person of between 61 000 and 100 000 kuna, if he does not provide the worker with an account for the unpaid salary. A fine of between 7,000 and 10 000 shall be prescribed in paragraph 2 of that Article for the responsible person or director in that company. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The labour law says that the State Inspectorate can punish with a lower sentence on the spot a legal person with 20,000 kuna, and the responsible person director with 6,000 kuna, which means that the penalty can also be for this part of the offence in the Labour Act less. And what can workers do if they don't get paid? I can report an employer to the State Inspectorate, the inspector gets to the employer, finds out he didn't do what he was supposed to do under the law, didn't give the bill. He can punish him on the spot if the employer agrees or initiates a misdemeanor procedure. We know from experience that misdemeanors sometimes last a year, two, and there are many infringements that pass a certain period of time and go into old age and in many cases employers are thus left unpunished. I'm going to give an example when it comes to misdemeanor measures related to employers and in the way that this can happen in practice, and this is a specific case where it happened, I'm not going to talk about the company's name because there's been a change in management and a part has changed so that in some way I don't publicly express the name of the company but I'm going to say exactly what it's about. The company has 130 employees. For 10 workers in the company there was a certain gap and they were denied certain financial rights that they had in the company. According to the Labour Act, they reported to the State Inspectorate, the State Inspectorate came to the company, found that the employer committed an offence and reported the employer to the wrongful court who, after 9 months and reached the verdict, punished the employer, but also punished the person responsible. Because of these 10 employees, the company's director was angry and he made a decision for a certain fee that all the workers in the company had, he abolished it for a further 6 months in a way that he said it to you because these 10 workers reported me to the inspectorate and now that I had certain financial damage you will not receive for the next 6 months this fee. And what practically happened, it happened that neither the employer was punished nor the responsible person, but eventually they were workers, but what was worse that the other 120 workers had a very negative attitude towards those ten workers who were absolutely right and who sought their legal right to do so. The government does not, in its opinion, accept the proposal of the Croatian Labour Labour Party which we would like to practically increase workers' rights in any way, and we think that such a part as the colleague had previously said should in some way change, whether in this part of the second reading of the law, because we believe that this should in any case extend certain workers' rights because in this case, a worker may not have a credible correction for unpaid wages and turns out to be not a problem of this Government, but in that part I will also quote a certain part of the text found on the 33 pages of the Government of Croatia for the period of office 2011/2015. I quote: "Croatia will truly become a legal and social state only if it fully ensures the implementation of labour rights. The government will guarantee the safety of workers and workers' rights through fair laws, swift justice, specialised working courts, independent and effective labour inspection, enabling free legal assistance for workers, support for trade union support and strict punishment for those who knowingly and systematically violate workers' rights. I'm undermining you with strict punishment for those who knowingly and systematically violate workers' rights. So far, workers' rights have been ignored and violated, and sanctions for offenders and without the protection of damaged workers. We'll change that." I'm finishing a quote and I'm asking myself whether they're punishing those who deliberately violate labour rights something that's only been sold to citizens or still being sold to them, and I'd like to know what's underneath the counter, and more or less we laborers already know who's behind the counter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20930	Thank you very much. The replica of your presentation has a colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20931	The esteemed colleague and the HDSSB club supported, therefore, the initiative and you are indeed right, and I am responsible for saying that Croatia, which wants to go to the European Union, and also the Government leading Croatia to the European Union, should indeed accept one such initiative, i.e. amendments and additions to this Penal Code. Because here I was just surprised to see this, the report on the draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code where the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament, therefore rejects this initiative with 7 votes 7 and 1 against not supporting the adoption of this law. Therefore, it is obviously more important at this time to decriminalise easy drugs than to allow workers in Croatia to get their hard-earned sometimes minimum wage from which workers or peasant families cannot survive these months, can't educate children, can't provide themselves with everything the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and recorded the right to work and the right to a decent life from their work. So we see that those who have signed and fought for the one who has never held a referendum, that it was primarily a signing before the elections for the Croatian Parliament and that the real intention of neoliberal social democracy at the moment is not a struggle for workers but above all for these employers who do not pay salaries to workers, and don't even give them a reckoning for their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20932	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of my colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20933	This is how I, my colleague Vinkovic, fully agree with you and it is clear that since the next year 1.7, Croatia must also accept certain standards that apply in the European Union, which is a question of payout, and this is a question of respect for the rights of workers, especially when it comes to the obligation of employers to come from labour legislation. And this part of the amendment to the law that we have proposed, he, like we all said, does not go before in order to punish someone strictly because what I repeat and beyond, no one should be punished for fulfilling the legal provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20934	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. My colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20935	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. So, these amendments to the Penal Code, as it was initially said, are more difficult towards rationalization, harmonisation and I would say... the listing of this new Penal Code, which should therefore enter into force 1.1. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The biggest opposition was expected to arise with regard to new provisions that regulate the issue of illicit possession of drugs for their own consumption. Therefore, it is important to say from the opening part the rationality and justification of the transfer of this crime from the criminal offence, therefore to the criminal sphere. It is clear that both the State Attorney's Office and the courts have been significantly burdened with the processing of such crimes in most cases, and the benefit of such action and such engagement has been questionable so far. Although there is therefore a longer practice of processing the crime of unauthorized drug possessions, the effects of such practice on the reduction of the occurrence of the crime are not unfortunately seen. Even as many reports from the State's Attorney's Office for 2011 can be seen to show that the number of applications for the boughs of this work has increased over the years as we follow. Therefore, in its report, the State Attorney's Office has also pointed out that for such a form, it is sufficient and criminal punishment for the pangs of that crime. In any case, I think we can agree that the State's Attorney's Office is a body whose opinion on this matter is extremely relevant. These items are characterized by a very large number of rejections. So last year, 3370 applications were rejected which account for 92.1% of all rejections as a whole. The majority of applications were rejected by Article 28. The KZ, therefore, is an insignificant crime. And that's exactly what I think is the greatest reason for us to transfer this crime from criminal to criminal sphere. In the legal theory, it has long been accepted in essence that the difference between crimes and violations is purely formal, quantitative. The fact is, therefore, that infringements of the legal system are milder in nature and that they are accompanied by both milder social condemnation and milder sanctions than this is the case with a criminal offence. Regardless of the current legislative solutions, it should therefore be reiterated that the number of acts of illicit drug possession has not been reduced nor has the social condemnation of those who, for example, enjoyed marijuana increased during this observed period. I think most people will agree that the possession of a joint does not have a greater social conviction than it does. driving under the influence of alcohol or passing through red light. I would even say that the latter offenses can be seen as a greater social condemnation in certain specific situations. In the theory of criminal law alone over the years, there has been therefore abandonment of the purely formal meaning of illegality as a pure violation of the legal norm because an executive approach has come to the point of determining whether certain behaviour should enter the sphere of criminal liability precisely its social impairment. So, we need to investigate the very aspects of this crime... of harmfulness. The case-law and most of the expert public, including the State's Attorney's office, is obviously the position that most of the offences committed under Article 173(1). The KZ does not, therefore, have in its essence such social impairment that it is an essential prerequisite for material illegality. Consuming drugs basically represents a certain form of auto-destruction. This truth is socially harmful behavior, there is no doubt about it, but basically drug consumption does not differ significantly from the extreme excess of alcohol consumption, and even with tobacco addicts, we can see that its behaviour is self-destructive and thus and harmful to the whole society if, therefore, such consumption is at the limit. And while I'm talking about that auto-destruction, I'm thinking of its ultimate occurrence, which is certainly suicide. For example, in literature, I found a clear definition of suicide that is somewhat approaching and some aspects of drug use. So it is said that suicide is a form of behavior at the moment of a severe life crisis, a response to a disturbed global communication, a way out of a real existential crisis, an appeal to a nearby environment or society. In that definition, which essentially defines the causes of suicide could find some causes of drug use. So, and interestingly, in some legislation, this attempt to commit suicide was a crime of sui generis. And try, so if the person tried, he even punished himself. It is clear that over time it has given up for quite understandable reasons, and I think a similar parallel can be withdrawn with a man who therefore consumes drugs. The only thing that's acceptable for both suicides and drug-consuming people is prevention for me. Preemptively try to help that person find a way out of the situation she was in. That person is a victim in one case and another. This prevention can only work through institutions and families. The very criminal sanctions against such persons in my opinion can even lead to counter-effects. I think we can all agree on that after all. Such behavior should be controlled as much as possible, and there are no worldly divisions. What we have left is to determine how to act and how to control such behavior as much as possible. The punishment of the final consumers of the opinion itself, which is why I repeat the victims here by this crime, is essentially protected by these very consummations and trying to prevent them from using these intoxicating agents. And in such a way as is now proposed in this proposal, the law shifts focus from a part of the persecution to people who produce and supply drugs and opens up a space to reduce the availability of narcotics. And one aspect of the social danger of drugs is, of course, setting an example for others, and this can be discussed. If one person in his environment spreads the impression that the use of narcotics is a desirable behaviour clearly to be fulfilled in this case and material illegality is fulfilled in relation to that part, then some behaviour could be sanctioned on this basis. But I think it should repeat that these changes are not about legalizing drugs, but only moving drugs from a criminal to a criminal sphere. No drugs are ever decriminalized or legalized. So, and sales and dealing still enters the criminal sphere. None of these drugs have been decriminalized. And regardless of the fact that the elements of some material illegality exist in the sense of a harmful example, let's just say that this position of the consumer justifies the view that it should not be exposed to criminal persecution with all the consequences of such persecution, such as social Stigmatisation and therefore difficult to resociate. It is certain that there have been many examples of youthful thoughtlessness, a desire for rebellion, or a moment of life’s weakness have caused essentially such social consequences that have resulted precisely in a counterproductive effect on drug consumption. However, no matter what I agree with the decriminalization of drug possession, I am of the opinion that in certain aspects, even so far, the practice of making narcotics available should still be considered. And the bill goes towards certain... criminal measures but I'm saying maybe you could even consider certain aspects and further such steps. That's what I'm saying, therefore, as I stated in the debate so far, the initiation of minors starts somewhere from the age of 14. And that's exactly the period in which we should act. This application of criminal sanctions has no effect on them, as so far the State Attorney's Office has rejected criminal charges against minors. So there is also help only prevention and we can continue to think that, just as young people are added, the provisions of the law are more stringent to allow for the availability of minors, and not only is the qualified form of work now for children to consider further qualified form and perhaps raising some legal minimums. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20936	Thank you very much. Replication to the presentation of colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20937	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Pandek listed some of the facts that many have already cited, and I don't know now whether the purpose is to discharging courts or whether it is to preserve Croatian families. That's kind of the idea that's being imposed. Today and always to say that because of the dispensation of courts, laws that legalise in any way or enable drug consumption in any way is not a good setting. And realistically, you should see here that there is still one step in this part, that those like a young colleague used to say that they accidentally found themselves in some society and rolled around a little bit so that they weren't the ones who were being prosecuted, but those who brought with them the drugs that bought it knowingly they did it and consciously came into that society to do it. And they can't be the same to say so in class with those who happened to be there. So maybe one of the inter-classes should do and then one more thing what fellow laborers say, one good part of the young probably for these reasons about the persecution or punishment of those who don't pay workers is the same thing in this situation that I absolutely support that activity to be prosecuted as well. But in any case any debate any step towards easier punishment and drug repression measures is definitely not a good step and it violates both the damaged Croatian family and Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20938	The answer to the replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20939	Several times already through this debate on this side, an opinion is being imposed which I think is correct so the penal program must be explosive. He's expensive, he's demanding, he's throwing a certain stigma at the perpetrators and he needs to stay in the sphere of explosives. Families should certainly be one of the anti-drug factors, against easier availability of drugs. There's a lot of responsibility on them, and I don't think there's any dispute in that. But I think the whole time you're criticizing this bill, you're standing on the wrong line, so it's those who own drugs that they're criminals. Well, 95% of the cases aren't criminals. When spoken, they may become sellers, so we cannot punish someone preventively because he may one day commit a crime as some kind of preventive blow. We're just mentioning these people are victims. They may have some weaknesses in character they need to be helped, and in addition, the largest number of drug users is initiated by what I found in studies of 14, 15, 16 years old. There is no point in acting against them by the provisions of the Penal Code, there is no point in doing so and no result will be achieved there. And the State's Attorney's Office against them, as I said, rejects the application because of the principle of purpose. So they can only be treated by preventive education and help rather than by repression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20940	Replica of counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20941	So I have to admit that the Đakov Municipal Court has been dismissed from trial for criminal offences thanks to former Deputy Minister Ms. Novosel, who is now the Deputy State's Attorney's office, and that decision has been made on the basis of a political decision. So it's transferred to a smaller Court in Nasice and the mayor's from HDZ and here it's from another political option and we're going to need a far smaller court with far smaller cases, and between Đakov and Nasica you don't even have a train line. And that ministry's answer is completely ridiculous to me because I need to correct that injustice and return practically to my mother's diet. But it's not the only problem, it's just one little depression, it's more addressed to the ministry. But first of all, this law is not only about decriminalisation of drugs, so it's not about easy drugs, but I'd say heavy drugs or possession of drugs for my own purposes. But it's a little scandalous for me that the government is turning it into a violation. On the other hand, I would say an initiative that is related to European standards of democracy where the employer not only should be held accountable, but the government rejects this proposal if the employer did not write down either... about the unpaid salary and even if it only indicated that he had put it at the level of the offence. I'm not surprised if I'm saying this, is that still a large part of the social democracy of those 20-year-old colleagues in your political option left quite a mark, but I'm not surprised by that SDP there's nothing left of social democracy, this is a completely new neoliberal concept that obviously doesn't lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20942	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20943	Thank you. I would not agree that this bill is scandalous, I think it's from this bill of law and a public debate that preceded that it's a scandalous endeavor to transfer this to a criminal sphere. Okay, we can take a look. ... Most of the time, I think that this is essentially a transfer of this crime to a criminal sphere that is essentially more of a social issue than any secular or any ideological issue, and I hope that the debate will be in that direction. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And as for this comment of yours about the fact that the ruling majority's position is more liberal rather than social democratic, I don't think he would agree with you. We also had a law on pre-demand settlement and fiscal responsibility that introduces the elements to pay the salaries, while we are already on the subject of wages, payouts put into some first-row payouts, to have the advantage. And the executive law that has now been adopted gives priority and makes sure that workers can collect their claims more easily, and we also need to remind again that it is precisely the SDP's initiative as a criminal offence that is defined non-payment of salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20944	And the last replica, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20945	Dear Vice President. My colleague Pandek, if someone were to draw some conclusion on the state of the nation based on today's debates, they might conclude that we are all sniffing, snorkeling and smoking, and that our only problem in Croatia is drugs, that we have no unemployed at all, and that in Croatia workers are running honey and milk, malts not that we are better than Scandinavia. However, the situation is not so, and this is still the Penal Code, not the Law on drug abuse. Ask what the workers think about what the workers say about it. Just before his colleague talked about social democracy, I don't think social democracy has any S of social democracy and it's like the law of workers at all is none of our business. I think it's enough to tell workers how much they're meant and how much they count.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20946	And the answer to the line, Drazen Pandeck.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20947	So more or less one thing we say the same thing, me on the one hand, you on the other. I don't think it's gonna help workers to get some kind of mere rhetoric and propose solutions that are hard to implement somewhere. ... that we are already in further discussion, that I said that we should see that we certainly agree that default pays is a problem, that we need to find solutions in which non-payment of salaries is contained, and that we should see how this article so far has been applied and that its shortcomings have been improved. I am convinced that the ministry, as far as I had the opportunity to hear today on boards, is recording this situation and I am sure that it will take certain measures. And this set of laws that I was already talking about is just about going to this one social sensitivity and having workers as the weakest and most endangered layer of society living from their work from 1st to 1st protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20948	We're continuing the debate. It's all right, colleague Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20949	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here are some symptoms of marijuana: marijuana suppresses brain activity by causing a dreamy state in which thoughts seem unrelated and impossible to focus. The sightings of time, color and space can be distorted and reinforced. The colors may seem shiny, sounds may seem stronger, may increase appetite. Marijuana generally weakens tension and gives a sense of good condition and kills ambition. Pregnant women who use marijuana can get smaller children than those they do not take, besides, THC passes into breast milk and can act on a child in the same way as acting on a mother and also affecting fertility. Considering that in the 1970s, Alaska decriminalized marijuana and then had devastating data that twice as many teenagers consumed cannabis compared to other federal states and therefore re-criminalized marijuana. So we say that we are responsible for our children and we are responsible for educateing them, educating them to become responsible young people. The kids ask us to set boundaries, and what we tell these kids, get the weed, that's okay, everybody spends it, there's no problem. If we know marijuana is an entry drug for all the other drugs, then we need to think deeply about what we're doing. Also, out of 100,000 children who consume marijuana, 5,000 will become heroin addicts. In 2011, polls showed 31% of high school students taking marijuana. And where are we? This is really worrying that we kids who need our guidance, who need us to set boundaries, we tell those kids to smoke, take the weed, no problem, we'll get you everything else you need because you're free of punishment. That's exactly what the kids are holding, that responsibility, if we impose some responsibility on them. We in elementary schools have a kid in seventh grade who tells the teacher that she's a cow and shut up and there's nothing you can do about it. Now we're going to tell those same kids what's going on in the second grade of economics school, a little motto joint in the class and says teachers I have to go to the bathroom. It's normal for everyone, the kid's gone, but that kid's been repeating class a few times already. It means that marijuana really kills ambition. If we know it's hurting, but we are, I don't know why, if this is some kind of politics, if the government wants someone to like this, I don't understand because we have so many other problems. And we won't concentrate on prevention, and prevention is the most important. Because when someone in the family gets high, then the whole family suffers. I talk to these people and I know what it's like and I know how they started. And most of them say we started with grass. So we smoked pot when she wasn't giving that boom, when she wasn't strong enough and we switched to heroin. I am more concerned that no one is talking about it especially from the ministry and as regards the prevention that 56 types of synthetic drugs have come from the European Union. Some cause severe brain damage or even death after the first consumption. Says counterpart Pandek, consummations won't become salesmen. On the contrary, because once a colleague gets hooked, he has nothing to buy from then he has to become a small dealer to get the money. Because as the guys in Split tell me, every four shots must be sold to leave one for themselves. So we're making dealers out of them right now and they have to make money. If they don't rob the house, if they don't rob the banks, I don't know what they're gonna get all the money from for consumption. So they just have to deal to keep something for them. And now, instead of telling those kids that you can't, it's illegal, it's gonna get you all your life. 50% of the children are afraid of that, and in the polls 50% of the children said we won't consume because exactly the Penal Code will haunt me. I don't want to be able to study and what's already, exactly 50% of them are standing out of it. And we're telling them right now you can, no problem, the state will protect you and just get high. And he says the same about his own needs. How much your own need is. It's the same as methadone when you're taking it for your own purposes, so this one says I need 20 pills a day, and he's taking 6 for his own purposes, those 14 sales. So what are your own needs? What's the limit? Where's your own need? We need to think a lot more about it if exactly, if we are really doing this law to help and protect our children. If we're doing this law for some other reason or other, then it's another thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20950	Thank you very much. The first replica has a colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20951	Here's a thank you. My esteemed colleague came to me, so I have a need to respond to this claim that I said the consummations wouldn't become drug dealers. No, first of all, not all consumers will become drug dealers. Some may, but it is in no way justified to punish, so justifying punishment is now a person who owns drugs criminally because some of them may become drug dealers. And I've already said in previous discussions that if we use a repressive apparatus against them, if in any way we're able to stegmatize them, I think we're actually going to make it difficult to resociate, actually I think we're going to even push them to become drug dealers. So if we give them one warning, then I've mentioned to them the punishment of society in the previous debate, so it's a misdemeanor difference between criminal liability and criminality, so it's just quantitative, not qualitative. So if we warn them of a misdemeanor it can also have one of those warning,... A function that basically has a criminal code. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that resociating and preventing them from becoming drug dealers will contribute more to their misdemeanor sanctioning than to their prosecution with all their consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20952	Reply to the replica of her colleague, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20953	We've seen a colleague so far by the behavior of young people, that young people need boundaries. Young people don't have boundaries today! Look at the elementary schools. I repeat what is done, what is happening, where are the boundaries. As soon as they move the boundaries, we move, and we are the ones who need to set those limits. If that's not how we do it, no problem. If a teenager robs a bank, if he kills someone, if I don't know how to beat someone up, if we don't do anything and we don't do it because when they're done, they won't be able to get a job where they want to go. They have in every normal state where the law is respected. If you hurt that law for everything that's going on. Well, don't! I used to say the same thing to my kids if you were doing something stupid to think about the first thing that's gonna be a punishment. If the punishment is ok. Go, but if you don't think you can take that punishment, then don't do it in the first place. If we behave this way, then our young man today would act very differently, act very differently. You wouldn't tell a teacher in seventh grade that she's a cow and she can't hurt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20954	Thank you very much. And the next replica of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20955	Dear colleagues, I'd like to sign most of what you said. However, this is not practically one discussion about drug abuse, prevention, etc. This is the Penal Code, amendments and additions to the Penal Code. And there from a few years ago, I'd call it Lucinian's decriminalization of light drugs we've come to decriminalization of all sorts of drugs but for our own use. So it's no longer a crime under the proposal of a new law but a violation. On the other hand, this Law deals with something incompatible with me and, above all, goes to a confessional in which there is neither OIB nor JMBG, no names or last names, there is a confessional secret for which many priests were willing to die over the centuries and died. On the other hand, I don't really see that this amendment and the addition of the law is in line with the Treaty with the Holy Table. So I will not mention all examples of history and priests, and for us believers of the world confession is sacrament. So it's not about police research, informative conversation, it's about sacrament. So, it's a violation of the law in fact of the church, so I'm asking the question and the minister because some priests who confessed, here's an example in the student cathedral the priest was blind. So, you don't speak your name and last name, and he can't see you or see you or there are certain conditions to see you in confessional. What, then, does this law say about it, and is it his fault if you even announce a crime? On the other hand
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20956	Thank you very much, colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20957	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20958	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20959	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20960	Replication response, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20961	Thank you very much. Well, I'm not afraid of my colleague Vinkovic for priests and a confessional secret because they've been held for 2,000 years, and they'll know very well how he'll respond and how he'll behave. So they're here to protect us and Christian interests, not laws that the state thinks they should respect. As for this decriminalization of drugs for my own use, I repeat how many? Who determined what their own use was, how much does it take? And as for payouts and laborers, I forgot to mention it, but I fully support that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20962	Thank you very much. And a colleague of Nancy Tyrelli's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20963	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, the honourable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I am particularly pleased today that we have brought together these two discussions of amendments and additions to the Penal Code, on the one hand by the Government for several reasons. We have been given a clear picture of what is more important to us and what causes more uncertainty here in Croatia and for what we are more afraid of and for what we stand for, or what amendments to the Penal Code we defend. After several hours of presentation of the arguments, we can all agree in one, that it is almost the same in the presentation of arguments by the Government and in the presentation of arguments by the other promoter, or Croatian Labourists. Here's a short cut. Droge, we want to transfer them from the criminal sphere to the offenders and say that they can and that's good, but the Laburist proposal that non-payment, i.e. the non-payment of the non-payment of salaries to employers from the criminal law is transferred to the Penal Code if we say it can't, it doesn't work. So in this case, it turns out we're more interested in this first thing. When the promoter defends his changes on drugs, then the following arguments are cited – do you even know how many officers are working to sanction drug consumption? It's a big engagement machine that costs money. It must be done 10 to 12 actions costing the state and the state is currently spending state resources. Yeah, I agree, but why don't you ask yourself if anyone knows how much certain stores cost a single employee who hasn't been paid for months exactly that payoff of those same salaries? What actions must this same worker take to settle those expenses that come to his home address every day and settle the invoices that were sent to his name and name? It's quite a lot of shops, and I think it's just as much cost for workers as it is for the state. Today we read in the newspaper that the Ministry of Justice in the projection of the Budget Plan for 2013 will receive 120 million kuna less, that the Ministry of Interior will receive 300 million kuna less and then perhaps by reading these titles of arguments that we listen to today why drug consumption from the Penal Code should be transferred to breaking laws somewhat as such and clearly. However, what concerns me particularly is that the budget of the Ministry of Social Welfare remains the same, and then I wonder how the Ministry of Social Welfare will solve those problems of workers and families who haven't been getting paid for months, but the state, that is, today when we are discussing changes to that law, no one is very concerned about it. Today we heard that when we defend drugs we say we have to because it's one less object. What subject? One joint? That's right. But when we defend workers, then we don't think like that because that one item is no longer just one joint, but that one object is then 100, 200, 300, 500, or even all those 80,000 workers who are crying out for that non-payment certificate for exactly one reason so they can trust the state, so that they can trust all of us who have spoken when we've changed the existing laws on that trail to be a legal state, to be a state of social, to be a state that cares about workers and to finally have that default paid by criminal sanctionors. When we talk about law enforcement laws, then these same workers who don't get paid are made an executive item or an executive law based on one of the invoices they didn't pay. That invoice was put out by HRT, T-Com, the plumbing, the power plant, anyone else. The invoice is not paid, one account is not settled and the worker ends up, and it is against him that the account is conducted. Because of this one account, the paper in this case confirmation of non-payments we ask that this proposal, as we have suggested, be put into amendments to the Penal Code precisely because that worker, along with all those huge bills of which he suffers and who are the tools of those whom he did not settle and will go to the effect that he has at least one paper, and at least one certificate from his employer who did not pay his salary that he too has the same tool that he can and at some point against someone is going to run that performance. The next argument when it comes to drugs is next, something's wrong so far, so obviously we have to change something. And it wasn't right that the cops had their hands full with drug users so they couldn't catch the dealers. However, when we propose criminal sanctioning employers who do not comply with their obligations, what we really think has been good so far in that segment and that nothing really needs to be changed. On one of the boards, we heard an excuse to wait a little longer, so let's see how the infringing sanctioning of employers who don't issue a certificate will liven up in practice. I repeat once again that this infringement procedure was defined as such in 1995 by the Labour Act that since then 7 years have passed and what we have on several occasions asked for when it is justified why we do not implement this proposal in the Penal Code to provide us with information on how many infringements have been filed against employers, how many criminal charges have been charged with the terms of office and how many cases have been filed after these criminal charges and sanctioned employers have received a declaration of non-payment of salaries. We don't have that information, I'm going to really try to get to the second reading of the Resort Ministry to ask that question and try to get that answer to the team more to make it easier for everyone and to have a clean conscience at the expense of what's been going on with what we've been doing and how far we've been going on. We will also agree that we heard from a colleague when it comes to drugs that are an example of liberal left-wing thinking. I think you'll agree with us that when it comes to this bill of ours, it's also one of the examples of left-wing thinking and that we should also respect it. Once again, I underline, and note, it is not the purpose of these proposed amendments solely to sanction but to really prevent them, because we are all witnessing that they react in one way when it comes to breaking the law, and in another way when it is in the way of the Penal Code. So here's the deal, and just in the end, here's the thing about a colleague who used to say that what's going on here in the assembly is pure rhetoric and that we're talking about something that we can't influence. I think that we can do very well, and I think that rhetoric is always good if it contributes to the problems we have seen in any way moving towards the better, especially if we find a good tool to solve them in a good way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20964	Thank you. Four replicas to your exposure. The first is Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20965	Dear colleagues, this part about drugs, it's not just about a joint. It applies to all kinds of heroin drugs, LSD of these synthetics for which I don't know the name, although I haven't tried these either, but so it's not just about that. On the other hand, liberal left-wing is not what we want to do if there is now in Croatia, is this a neoliberal social democracy and I would disagree, my colleague said there is no S of social democracy. Well, she exists in Croatia. In 1892 when the first Social Democratic Party was founded, allow me, but at this point the SDP does not have S of this social democracy because it turned into a neoliberal party. You are right when you say that many workers, many citizens, have no mercy on them, especially they have no mercy I will not cast this sold public company as Croatian Telekom was at the end of Croatia's electricity business. I meet all these people every day as mayor. These are people who, and if they receive that salary, then they don't have enough funds to pay for this now collected heating and gas that went into 32% in the 4th month, on the side of this collection that HERA approved, etc. Only now do they expect the biggest blow, until I know what kind of performances are burdened with special workers who have lost their jobs or who have not been paid their wages precisely because the employer can in no way be punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20966	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20967	Yeah, I agree it's not just a joint that's about all the other drugs. I was just repeating the parts that were presented today in this assembly as arguments as to why we should transfer from criminal drug to criminal. But you mentioned me well here's another drug-related company and we didn't mention anti-depressants that workers who don't get months' wages are using more and more. And if a cop stops you on the road under the influence of antidepressants that you can't use as such because it says on the instructions that you can't drive motor vehicles, obviously it hasn't started sanctioning yet, so maybe here's just one of the suggestions that we might be going in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20968	Col. Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20969	Here I am going to be a very short-respected colleague of Tyrelli's. You said in one sentence before the end to beg. We have not yet come to beg on behalf of the workers, nor do we ask workers, however the workers are treated, have not yet been able to pray. So what we're looking for, we're looking for on behalf of the workers, and behind that is five union centers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20970	Thank you. Replica, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20971	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The colleague spoke and was constantly provoked in the essence of the debate on how to protect workers in terms of payouts. Of course, workers absolutely need to be paid, and they should absolutely be provided with the possibility of getting a document on the amount of pay if they cannot be paid. However, constantly provoking employers' criminal responsibility for not issuing this document, I think that it is literally a repression against entrepreneurs because entrepreneurs, i.e. the legislator or the Ministry of Finance, can also pass certain laws, i.e. in the Croatian Parliament or regulations, which in the FINA, together with all documents that are submitted monthly, for example. for payments or possible non-payments of salaries, but also records of the necessary payments in sum may also be delivered on disks, i.e. CDs, e-mails, and a full report on the situation relating to the need for payment of workers for salaries, which could possibly be kept in the FINA or in the tax administration in which workers in the event of failure to pay and inability to obtain that document from the employer could provide it in the state institutions, of course with these infringement sanctions which exist already for such a kind of work, inaction by employers. Therefore, let us not burden employers with such things, but we can assure workers otherwise to receive this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20972	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20973	I agree with you in just one part, that we have, we keep talking in Croatia we have, we have tools to do this, we have tools to do what, we have everything in the laws and on the papers but the question is how much of it is being carried out today. If all that was done on paper and law, I'm telling you that we wouldn't be in a situation like this so many thousands of people wouldn't be on the road without getting paid for months. So it's obvious that someone doesn't do their job and that someone doesn't do what's supposed to be done. We're talking about situations where we have a law that is clearly not good in practice and that's why we're trying to change it, whether it's drugs, whether it's confessionals and the right to a secret confession and whether it's workers. It doesn't matter what we're talking about, it's important that we detect the problems of trying to sanction this problem in the best possible way that it reflects well on who it concerns. Now we're not talking about whether it's a state, whether it's a worker or an addict, we're always talking about a man, about a subject, about some end-user, so let's call that letter the law we've passed in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20974	And the last replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20975	Thank you very much. Somewhere in the middle of your debate, you said that it was necessary to issue that certificate so that the worker could prosecute his employer. After you were corrected, you finally realized that exactly and the purpose of the issue of that certificate, or the possibility of punishment, is prevention. And now that I hear this further said, I answer to your part, which message can be read out of this. So we have a situation that employers who not only don't pay their wages but refuse to issue a certificate for that, are now also familiar with the fact that over 100 applications DORH refused. Now those employers who honestly did their part get a signal that maybe they weren't doing smart work and that maybe it wasn't even burning and that they were changing their way of doing business so let's all work, you volunteered. Well, the purpose of this is to prevent it, that man knows he can be punished if he doesn't carry out his legal obligations, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20976	Thank you. Five-minute debate on behalf of HDZ Club, colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20977	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here I took the opportunity to speak finally on behalf of the club to express my position because I initially failed to do so in view of the abundance of matter, my position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers. So the HDZ Club will absolutely support this bill and I can only say that I'm surprised why this government doesn't accept this and why MPs who are in power today don't accept this because this is on the trail of what they were behind when they were in opposition. Namely, taught all together by the experience that the crime of non-payment of wages which was not so called but was incriminating and currently in force by the former Penal Code, was corrupted by something different, so the criminal liability of the person who obstructed workers' labour rights was, among other things, the right to pay. We've seen from the State's Attorney's Report how much the rejection is, we've seen court practice that's often said there's no crime in default, that no criminal act is fulfilled for the reason that there's a payment and it's given paper but it's not paid. And since it's not explicit, there's no criminal charge, then there's no crime. We are now reversing ourselves with this principle in the Penal Code which should enter into force on 1.1.2013.The expression sought to correct it so that really employers would be held accountable unless they paid the workers, and are now able to and are now being studied as a criminal act that does not pay a share or a full salary of one or more workers, of course, in addition to payment if there was a failure to make funds available and if they are not created with the aim of avoiding wages. On the other hand, we said that the payment in the Executive Act, that the beach billing, is an executive document. So now we're putting ourselves at risk of not paying off, not being a crime because there's no payout, because at that point there's no possibility of paying off, but that the worker is not getting paid for being paid, and the worker might be able to do the payout with that bill, so when there's the funds in the account that it's going to be charged. I would also like to say that the existing definition of Article 132 of this Penal Code already exists in that way to say one benefit for the employer that, at that time and when he committed a crime, he did not pay the worker a salary, when there was no funds in the account, and this lack of financial resources in the account did not arise with the aim of avoiding payouts, that is to say, it became a criminal offence. And in that case, if he later pays the workers, then he can be released from punishment. So it's already something that goes in favor of that employer, so and precisely with the goal and the worker is important not to punish the employer but to get his salary without the employer repeating such behavior. I therefore think that by supplementing this article in paragraph 3 as the Croatian Labourists suggest that the Government should accept this and that this Article 132 should be complemented in any case by the employer to ensure that the pay is paid by the employer, whether or not it can be charged through the exercise through the pay account. It's certainly just not enough in the sinister section because we've talked about it today. It can't actually be used by paying criminal penalties in a way that you don't do your duty because it's cheaper for you to pay a fine than to pay off workers, so we think that this change and supplementation is good and that it should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20978	The Republic has a colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20979	Thank you. Well, I'm surprised this right-hand side is silent now. About the pace, about the seas of fellow Lovrin. ... Well, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear it.]] So I remember that time while and the 8 years, especially those last ones, while HDZ was in power of all those technical and tactical constitutional and legal and I don't know what kind of games about the implementation of that referendum that was related to the amendments and additions to the Labour Act, and I might wonder today why the government doesn't accept this Law from Croatian Labourists, but I do wonder, but at least I think that since the experience from this close past taught us that at this point, I don't think the HDZ should talk so much about it. On the other hand, this Law above all that the Government has proposed is absolutely not responding and is therefore not in the protection of these workers. I'm particularly surprised by this sentence, and I'm going to have to mention that it's giving up on life-style punishment under which, among other things, it's understood to wander, to enjoy alcohol, to enjoy drugs, to deal with prostitution. So now I'm trying to read like a few years ago when my colleague Shime Luchin talked about the decriminalization of light drugs whether this is a small door we introduce prostitution, or legalization of prostitution for our own needs. So it's going to be a little prostitution for 100 euros, all depends on a fellow Pandek on the service you're getting. There are different prices. So here's what I'd like first of all to hear from the government answers because this obviously, this changing and adapting to the lifestyle is also talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20980	Thank you. Answer to the replica of colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20981	Comrade Vinkovic, you can't replicate to me, and then ask the government for an answer. I'm not in the government right now, but I don't know what's weird to you why I'm surprised. So I'm surprised precisely because for years by SDP agents that the corruption of incrimination, the non-payment of salaries in Article 114 of the existing law is not good, that it is unclear and that therefore the courts do not punish it, that is to say, a different case law has been established where this crime actually remains unpunished. Now we're changing the Penal Code, we've changed, so we've determined that incrimination in Article 132. Croatian laborers have noticed that there is something else that is not said in this article where workers' rights could be played and have therefore suggested that this article be complemented to make it truly perfect. And that's why I'm surprised why those who kept saying that the existing law didn't well formulate that incrimination why they don't now accept from a good formulation an even better formulation. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20982	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the closing word of my colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20983	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, respected ministers and associates, so here I would immediately answer my colleague Vinkovic's good news is that when people change for the better, it's bad when they change for the bad. Therefore, this change in HDZ is welcome to us, but we are surprised by this change in the bad SDP. Before the same colleague Lovrin asked why the Government of this Law of Croatian Labourers – Labour Party does not accept? Well, it doesn't accept you've heard before because it's repression. It is a repression on capitalists, or employers. If they're working on one side and on the other, they're capitalists. It has been said here that workers will not be helped by mere rhetoric. Excuse me, here you've received all the appeal of Croatian trade unions, 5 centralities, here are up to 5,000 workers who are just asking for it. They're looking for action because this is an invitation to action. What you were saying today is rhetoric, what you were teaching that for the first time, you didn't say that pulsism to the Labours, you see. But right now, I'm not going to characterize yours for the populism that you've been telling us. Simple law is proposed by the government, but no one has the courage to say it's bad let's accept what the Labourists have suggested because it's good for the workers. And when it's good for the workers and it supports them, the first time this happened to support an initiative like this, if it's supported by five unions that bring together 500 thousand workers, then it means it's good. This is where workers are protected, here is not about privileges, about cars, about something else that is otherwise very often spoken in the Croatian Parliament. First of all, if there are about 150 thousand unpaid workers in any way or in part, if 80 thousand workers receive, works and doesn't receive pay, then it's like I said before the alarm, time for the alarm. I don't know if you've ever spoken to people who are leaving, representatives of workers who go to various conferences in Europe, outside Europe, means in the world, in the countries of Western democracy. And when they start talking about the problems of the workers in Croatia then they say we have one of the biggest problems that weighs us down, and that's pay default. Then they're asked by the official speaker to explain what it means. It's an unknown to people. People are strangers in the world to say you work, and you don't get paid. I'm sorry. Slavery was better. The slave owner was supposed to provide a roof over his head and give him food. Today, a worker, 80,000 workers go to work, drive, spend their gas, borrow money so they can work for who? For those on whom the repression will take place because they demand their right to receive wages. Well, if there's no more repression in the world, then let's be an example of that repression. So, when a worker asks for his job, he asks his employer to give him confirmation that he was working that month and that he's earned so much, it's repression. So don't tell me! And that's what the representatives of the Social Democratic Government of God say. Well, of course it's repression because it's mostly the economy run by members of a party that's liberal, neoliberal. And the SDP turns into a neoliberal party. And that's why, as I said before, we talked all the time about the decriminalization of easy drugs, in fact of all drugs, and we didn't have the decency to talk about being separated from this side for at least half an hour to discuss whether workers deserve to receive their wages, should they be given a way if they don't receive it? Yes, again someone will tell me you're wrong and already today's law sanctions non-payment of wages. Yeah, but nothing happens in practice. Nothing's going on. Workers still don't get paid. What about those 80,000 workers who don't get paid? What about the employers? They're full of jails. Repression over them, no one to work, no one to come up with big programs. The workers deserve protection from this High House and the Labourers in a few sentences summed up that protection and it would be quite right for the Parliament to support it, even the minister before I realized he would consider it. Think about it, let's make 600 thousand people, 150 thousand families live more dignity than they do now. If you won't do it for sure, the workers will be able to answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20984	Thank you very much. The first line has Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20985	Yeah, since here's my colleague Branko called me, so I wouldn't say there's a Latin one that changes a wolf's hair, but it never does. But there's another one in socialism from word to deed, and only when this HDZ comes from those words so-called. This support for certain things and they had a long time to do it for workers in Croatia, and they didn't spend it while they were in power then I don't really trust that improvement for the better. [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] So when you have power, then you can show who you are and what you are. When you are in opposition you can practically criticise everything you can suggest what is impossible but this proposal is possible. Because no matter how much the workers stand behind these unions as to whether it's 500 grand, you might have to ask how many real workers if we just exempt all the government employees at this point we're going to see that maybe it's not that 500 grand in education, education, etc. We'll see what kind of a deep crisis we're in. And this I would ask you that Krležin My reckoning with them is not so often used because I have been in that social democracy for a long time and this really has nothing to do with social democracy. After all, the president of the political option said that he is actually a liberal, not a Social Democrats, so it is no wonder that this is all going into this neoliberal concept where the big fish eat small, and the small fish are getting smaller, so that the big fish could soon be hungry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20986	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20987	My colleague, I'll answer to you very briefly. I'm going to repeat what I said to be glad when someone improves for a better meaning which is being fixed, and I'm surprised that the members of the SDP who have advocated signing petitions to hold a referendum, let's just say they didn't do it to hold this referendum, and among them former unionists, trade unionists. Why? All the things they said about how they'd support the workers when they came to power today they didn't. Today we even hear that seeking the rights of workers is a repression against employers. That's why someone said it to me that my colleague Novak told me the best thing to do was to cancel the salaries that the workers were coming to work and that all the profits were going to the employers and to legalize it here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20988	Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20989	Dear counterpart Vuksic, therefore, it is quite clear that workers deserve and should receive the salary they have done, however, that does not depend on the Penal Code. As much as you point out the need to enter into the Penal Code a provision on non-payment of wages that it is criminal. Why wouldn't the employees of another firm of the trustee also seek responsibility for their non-payment of wages because someone didn't pay them their employer. That's how we move on. What's crucial is that we can go on forever, only criminal, criminal, criminal. What is crucial and you have failed to indicate and spot the Financial Business and Pre-departure Act, the General Tax Law is the key laws that need to secure liquidity in the Republic of Croatia and which ensure that salaries can be paid to workers and the normal functioning of the economy, and that is what is crucial at this point rather than prosecution for non-payment of salaries because all of these laws that I have mentioned now have enough elements in the function of the state and state institutions for the implementation and protection of workers, and in particular I stress that we have also passed laws where and in bankruptcy we have increased the number of minimum salaries that we provide to workers. Therefore, this coalition government is doing a comprehensive and once again mentioning the Penal Code of Change does not bring about what you want to constantly point out that the problem of non-payment of salaries of the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement is crucial that will ensure the functioning of the economy and not only the payment of salaries but I also believe new employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20990	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20991	A respected colleague would be perfectly logical to me if the Social Democratic government first did everything when it came to power to ensure the greatest protection of workers. It was supposed to be the first job of the Social Democratic government. I think you said before if I understood you correctly and perhaps I didn't, why wouldn't the workers ask to be prosecuted by their employer's credentials. So how will they ask to be punished and persecuted by the believers when they can't even get their reward? I think it's very clear. All that seems and what has so far seemed to be that workers remained as unprotected as they were before, and perhaps more because of the fact that it is not certainly these parties in power who have affected the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20992	Thank you. Igor Coleman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20993	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In his debate, counterpart Vuksic pulled a parallel that is often heard here in this House, he said the economy is mainly run by a party that is liberal or neoliberal. So I have a need here to say that HNS is a liberal party and we're absolutely proud of it. This means that in what we say let's call the triodibi of political values which each of our options considers fundamental between equality as classical social democratic, let's say the fundamental values of order as classically conservative or democratic values and freedom as classical liberal values. We represent individual freedom as a foundation and its roles in society and state and state as such. That's why we always talk and we're loud and we support the freedoms of individuals, their freedom to choose lifestyle, we talk a lot about the relationship between the church and the state that we think they have to be separated, we talk a lot about the relationship between the state and the individuals that we think the state needs to get involved in the life of the individual at the end of the day, so we still support some of these provisions of the Penal Code that have caused a lot of controversy here in this assembly. However, what I would like to stress once and for all, I ask that you try to respect it. Not a single element of the political programme of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats or anything our ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia have made as a decision either as a decision or as something implemented there is no sign of neoliberal. So I'll do it and we all find it offensive and false and beg that it be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20994	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20995	First of all, I'm not offended. My colleague's intention was not to offend you. I'm telling the truth. The truth offends. It's not about the program. It's about practice. HNS is a liberal party, but timaras of major neoliberal capitalism, and this proves a relationship to large capital, a relationship to banks. The only thing you haven't touched, you haven't taxed it is financial transactions. Come on, please, we're making laws here. Get serious. The left and right shall be measured according to the ratio to the capital, not the declaration of what is written in the party's programme. Many parties have been notorious in history, and I do not compare them with your party, and they had beautiful statutes and beautiful rules of conduct. Therefore, this government is a neoliberal government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20996	And the last replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20997	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here I want to replicate my colleague Vuksic in the part where he investigates why social democracy does not want to side with Croatian workers, and the amendments to the Penal Code decriminalises easy drugs. We've heard a lot of different possibilities in the past year, and it's impossible to get along with all kinds of stuff. Here I am listening here today almost all day why this can be done and why it's good to legalize decriminalization, let's say we decriminalize easy drugs. We're saying witnesses that maybe we don't understand it in the opposition, maybe it provides some opportunities that we're not aware of today, but maybe we should look at it in some different light, because if this HNS fellow's announcement is still being made that there is a need to legalise and prostitution, maybe one sector of this society will take advantage of it. I'm talking about the tourist part of this country. I'm coming from the island. So perhaps we are finally the foundation of this government and become a state of night life, a country where we can smoke legal marijuana and enjoy light drugs, and that declared slogan may need to be changed because there is a city in which it is possible, that is Amsterdam about which the fish stew sang and the famous song Amsterdam and who says that we could not become in this 2013 and some new Amsterdam so that we can change this slogan of the Croatian tourist community that says that Croatia is a new tourist star in the European Union and that, in conclusion, Croatia has become a new Amsterdam in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20998	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u20999	My dear colleague, I'm not surprised at what's going on in the House today, and I'm not surprised at the replicas we're getting, and I'm not surprised that the workers aren't protected and I haven't pulled a direct parallel about it. I was saying that I was sorry that both laws were not equally talked about, that they were no longer talking about the protection of workers and that it turned out like this Penal Code was actually a drug law, and that's not the case. Therefore, there are thousands of times bigger problems in Croatia. No one underestimates drug problems, but there are big problems, people have nothing to pay for bills, people don't pay for wages, they drive angry cars, they buy yachts, they have villas, and they say they don't have money to pay. That's the problem, and nobody wants to put an end to it. Whether it's a government whose employees are on their minds and who they want to protect, they want to be called Social Democratic and actually not to be called, it's called, being Social Democratic, doing it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21000	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21001	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, first reading of the PZE No. 191 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Penal Code, any objections to proposals and opinions will be addressed by the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law". Please state who's behind this conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most of the votes are 80 votes in favour of, 28 against and 6 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21225	We're going to the next item on the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 195 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the motion for an act in the box. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? The Minister of Justice, Mr Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21226	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. Two reasons why we are going into this change is the first reason for the entry into force and for the need to comply with the provisions of the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement, the second reason is the desire to correct those things that have been found not to be good in the existing Banking Act and in the way in which the bankruptcy is implemented. So what we've been doing with these changes, so taking into account this first foundation that I've said to comply with the Financial Business Act and pre-fashion settlement is religious autonomy and through this better protection of the rights of the believer, through this and better protection of workers and the introduction of better discipline in the implementation of bankruptcy. I'll just say a few things that change, which we think are important. First, the basic principle, the one whose search is decided, so the believers decide. This is what we have achieved among other things and through the fact that the believers are now giving power of attorney, so the approval of the trustees on the authority of both representation and leases for more than six months. It is the two things that have proved in practice that they have been able to spill funds out of bankruptcy and that they have been known to exceed the cost of bankruptcy that bankruptcy is actually being led to. We saw that as a problem. Next, the only creditors are the authorising officers for the development of the bankruptcy plan and only in a way that transfers the total assets of the debtors to the person who will be established. Therefore, the bankruptcy no longer has financial restructuring, no further business of that debtor through bankruptcy but there is a possibility through this continuation of the activity but the debtor who went before this through the provisions of the Financial Business Act and before a bankruptcy settlement will simply not exist at the end of this. Next, we're reintroducing an institute that hasn't been thought since 2006 has been abolished, which is the sale of the property of a creditor as a whole. This is something that has been shown in practice by then as one of the good mechanisms. He was abandoned, we're bringing him back. This is also provided in accordance with these principles, the creditors are easier to choose from another bankruptcy manager in such a way as to change the majority needed for this because we have now seen that because of the requested majority, it was often not possible to do so even though they were not satisfied with the work of the bankruptcy manager. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to point out a few views here regarding the rights of workers. We prevent the practice of withdrawing proposals for the opening of bankruptcy proceedings very harmful in practice so far because it has actually happened that bankruptcy proceedings are being initiated, proposals are being withdrawn, the procedure is being interrupted and it never begins and workers can't make their salaries or in that company because they don't get paid, but they can't even get paid in front of the agency. Now that means we're removing that possibility and limiting it to 60 days. Next. One thing also unfortunately happened too often in practice that workers cannot later exercise their pension insurance rights due to the destruction or disappearance or disorderly conduct of documents. So now the bankruptcy manager has to hand that paperwork over to the Pension Insurance Office. Next, we also raise the standard when determining the meaning of these unpaid salaries they must be determined to avoid the situation and re-manipulation that it has been known to happen that bankruptcy does not even open because seemingly costs are higher than the mass and through what was actually happening, through the failure to open up bankruptcy you did not have the inability to challenge certain things that are bad and criminally done in bankruptcy, disputing abuses now allow it. Next, we introduce rules to limit the number of appointments of bankruptcy managers in a judge. We know, it happens in practice that certain bankruptcy managers run a lot of bankruptcy procedures. The question is, how is that possible? Now I can have three at one judge's. Next, the right is denied, but better to say, this is how we introduce the principle of knowingly performing the duties of a bankruptcy manager. It has existed so far, and we explicitly prescribe it and say that it will not win the prize if it does not act consciously. We make it easier to change it, as I have already said, to tighten the rules on the delivery of responsible persons, too, so that there will be no abuse and delay the start of bankruptcy proceedings and we will set the final hearing within a year and a half of the report. What is very important is that we make it independent of the duration of any other administrative proceedings, etc. Because now the bankruptcy couldn't end because you had a problem with going through a whole series of other court proceedings. We want this, the bankruptcy has to end. A simple company that can, not a company, but an activity that can continue will be able to do business, but the debtor will disappear. Here's briefly what's in front of you. One of the reasons that encourages us to do this, maybe I should have said it in the beginning is certainly 250 at this point in bankruptcy proceedings that are over three years old. So you can think about what's going on here with the property, with religious rights in those 250 that are more than three years old. So that's what we want to change with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21227	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, no, no. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. The first is the SDP club co-worker Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21228	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, which was referred by the Proposer to the parliamentary procedure, mainly for the reason that the need to comply with the new laws that regulate and create a legal basis for the resolution of insolvency and insolvency in the Croatian economy. This was firstly adopted by the Financial Business Act and pre-departure settlement. The bankruptcy law of the legal framework for the implementation of bankruptcy proceedings in the Republic of Croatia and should be harmonised in accordance with the needs of practices and other regulations that require it. The solutions adopted by these two laws indicate that, because of the faster and more efficient and fairer implementation of the bankruptcy procedure, the possibility of financial restructuring of the creditor should also be abandoned as was regulated under the existing law. It thus deny the debtor the possibility to submit a bankruptcy plan because this is the right and obligation consumed by the Pre-Agreement Act and financial business. Another important amendment to this Act allows the assets of the creditor to be sold as a whole, which clearly shows the proposal's intention to enable and facilitate the continuation of business and the continuation of the activities of the creditor. It is also aimed at achieving greater value of assets as a whole than its individual parts. Also, limiting the number of appointments of bankruptcy managers in the same bankruptcy judge will allow the bankruptcy judges to devote themselves to what they really do and work, which is to manage and represent the creditor rather than worry that in such a difficult economic situation, the bankruptcy manager will become a caste for himself. The proposer correctly observed the corrupt option offered by the old existing legal solution, leaving the possibility of abuse of the power of a bankruptcy administrator or a bankruptcy judge and preventing this legal solution. Also, the bankruptcy manager is placed in dependence on his work, in real dependence on his work in the process. So the unconscious bankruptcy manager can be sanctioned by denying the right to a reward. This newspaper is an additional fuse that the bankruptcy manager will, knowingly and in accordance with the rules of the profession, carry out his duty and as such is fully justified. That is what will allow a bankruptcy manager to take care of the interests of creditors and work to increase bankruptcy instead of seeing a person who will eventually receive bad news that mostly says I am sorry but there is no possibility that you can settle down. Amendments and additions to this law are welcome and the SDP club will support the bill's adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21229	Thank you very much. HNS Club and counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21230	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's clear on behalf of the HNS Club that we will support this bill for a number of reasons. In the introduction, we heard the minister who detected a few key fundamental changes, but on behalf of the HNS Club, I must say that these are really fundamental changes to the bankruptcy law because he no longer has the role he has played so far, as it is said in the introduction, no more restructuring. There is no more of that space that the bankruptcy manager had until now to try and never finish, to promise without ever having to execute, to basically implement this bankruptcy law, to keep the company working, to keep the employees from receiving orderly pay this bankruptcy bill anymore. It closes, of course, because we have the Financial Business Act and a pre-profit settlement which clearly states that the 120-day time-out is the time in which this restructuring in agreement of course of debtors and creditors must happen if the company can really continue to work. This bankruptcy bill sends clear two messages. If the Financial Business Act, i.e. a pre-demand settlement cannot be implemented by this Banking Act, the company will go into liquidation, or if there is a possibility it will continue its activity not as a company that has been so far. These are essentially fundamental changes to the bankruptcy law, and what is crucial, too, can be said technically, but in the implementation of extremely important these are the very powers of the bankruptcy managers who get certain restrictions, get certain conditions, get certain opportunities in which they can no longer stretch, can't be done in a way that has so far been done which in fact ensures that all these legal proposals will result in one efficiency of the implementation of bankruptcy in the first place in the protection of creditors and protection of employees. This amendment to the bankruptcy law with the final bill is certainly a single package with the pre-profit settlement already mentioned which I believe that in the following year I definitely believe that we will have a report on bankruptcys implemented in Croatia, on pre-profit deals which will clearly indicate that we have managed to keep our jobs with these laws, that we have managed to save companies that have a chance and that have space on the market and that we have managed to protect the property that will be in function tomorrow of course what? Economic activities and employment. The HNS club supports this law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21231	Thank you very much. It's the HDSSB and counterpart Zoran Vinkovic's turn. Unfortunately, he's gone, he's losing his right at this point. Next is the club of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties and colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21232	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. These amendments to the Banking Act are normal following the adoption of the Financial Business Act and the pre-demand agreement entered into force on 1 October of this year. Croatian Labourists – The Work Party has warned on several occasions that we have a multi-year negative practice of applying the Banking Act as well as the very course of implementation of bankruptcy. Poorly managed bankruptcy, poor legal solutions have created effects that have produced huge negative traces on the economy but have been through a certain period and generators of a large number of unemployed today amounting to 342,000 and 400 at the Employment Office. And what's worse is the missing companies that have never been able to run after the bankruptcy. The Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement obliges an insolvent and insolvent debtor to initiate the pre-demand settlement procedure and in which liquidity should be provided and the continuation of the work of the legal entity, thus ensuring continued work, the preservation of the job but also the assets and the escape of the final bankruptcy itself. If there is no pre-demand settlement then bankruptcy is opened but under much more favourable circumstances and timely bankruptcy and more favourable settlement of the creditors is acceptable in any case for Croatian Labourists. The sale of assets as a whole allows for its higher value to be preserved but also easier to start production in the event of the purchase of the new owner of the company itself which should be sold in bankruptcy. So far, the practice of long-term blockades of the accounts of business entities has created a huge internal non-payment debt of the state and has created very negative business on the functioning of the entire economy in Croatia. In previous practice, when bankruptcy was opened, increased debts far exceeded the value of the assets of business entities and such a company no longer had a simple chance of survival and in bankruptcy itself. It can be a big problem that these two laws of the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement and changes of the Banks Act come in a very difficult economic situation and it is difficult to predict the effects that they will cause on the economy if we know that there are certain negative trends that there are 73,000 853 blocked business entities of legal and natural persons performing registered activities with around 63,000 employees and with total debt of more than 44 billion kuna. It also concerns the real sector, primarily construction, where nearly 10 billion kuna is due and they participate somewhere with 22.3% in total debt. In late September, 10890 business entities were blocked. Behind construction at the level of unexploited pay bases is the processing industry with 5.8 billion kuna debt and 13% share in total debts with 7810 blocked business entities. For example, if we transfer this data to the capital, the city of Zagreb has a total of 39.5% of the total amount of outstanding payments and 28.6% of the total number of blocked legal and natural persons. For Zagreb business entities, unexecuted payment orders totalling 17.6 billion kuna were blocked, and 21169 business entities were blocked at the end of September. These are data that cannot be left to anyone indifferent, and if we add even more to that data and the drop in production of 5.3%, the decline in traffic is a little difficult to give any prognosis that could cause effects according to such a fallen economy. On the other hand, there are no new investments and projects to raise the economy. The very application of these laws will be shown in practice whether the best solution is chosen but also the time but it is certainly better than what we have so far. The Croatian Labour Labour Party, as I have said, will support the amendments to the law because it is necessary because of the previously adopted Financial Business Act and pre-fashion settlement. Although we believe that they should have been brought long ago, and then they would have some color effects. We have a certain point of view on Article 9(2) which changes the second sentence, which speaks of the appointment of a bankruptcy manager in more than three bankruptcys. And the first sentence remains unchanged and the creditor may and may not, by official duty, be relieved of the bankruptcy manager and, before the end of a period of one and a half days, if he does not carry out his duties successfully. We believe that the provision may need to be replaced with or be replaced because if someone does not perform a duty, it should be successfully removed and not left as a specific option. And in practice, the word can also lead to more bankruptcy managers than the three that are spoken of to conduct bankruptcy, as has been the practice so far. And finally, I want to express my satisfaction because it is very good that this very important law has managed to comply with all the social partners, and that means both unions and employers, which I think should be a practice in all the relevant laws that are passed in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21233	Thank you very much. It's the HDZ club, colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21234	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the HDZ Club, which states that it is necessary to approach the changes and additions of the bankruptcy law for a simple reason because here in the Croatian Parliament in October 2012 we adopted the Law on Financial Business and Pre-determination, which is why we moved one part of the existing bankruptcy law into the matter of another law and we would say from one court sphere to the administrative sphere. We'll see how good that is. But here is what we repeat on behalf of the HDZ Club, and we will repeat again and again, regardless of the support and the understanding that these amendments and additions are necessary, it would be good if they were brought in a regular process in two readings, and then there would be time for any comments on certain articles to be considered and perhaps to make some improvements in the final text. In fact, it is essentially clear that this part of the financial business and part of the pre-demand settlement in which the main role, i.e. the obligation and the authority, has the duty to, when it comes to the field of the bankruptcy law and the judicial bankruptcy procedure, that it is the principal role of the credentials and that this bankruptcy procedure is actually used, or the purpose of it is to ensure that the credentials are in as much as possible and to settle their claims. In this sense, first of all, let me say that the bankruptcy reasons have been extended, so now indifference is envisaged as one other than incompetence for payment and over-indebtedness introduced as a bankruptcy reason. It is good to trace anti-corruption measures this measure to limit how many times the same judge can appoint the same bankruptcy manager. Such measures are as preventive as always good, and it is possible to implement them. It is also good to determine now, according to this Banking Act, exactly the business of a creditor, so that what was happening in practice, what we were trying to achieve by a number of amendments to the Banking Law, which is the efficiency and speed of the bankruptcy process, and we haven't quite succeeded since it now seems to me to be the seventh or eighth amendment of the bankruptcy law, so it's not happening that the company is working in bankruptcy for 5.6.8 years and to do through bankruptcy more costs than the entire bankruptcy mass. Two articles would be a problem here. This is Article 9, so where it is now said that a bankruptcy judge, at the request of a committee of creditors or a congregation of creditors, will resolve the bankruptcy manager during the year and a half of the day from the date of holding the report hearing, unless he has cashed in the property entering the bankruptcy so that it can be accessed by the final part. It is in the case of real estate, and in the case of real estate that can easily be cashed, it is 9 months. Therefore, this amendment has now dropped the reason that this will not happen unless it has been able to cash the property for the conduct of a lawsuit or administrative procedure. It is, for example, an intensities of this law that the conduct of litigation and administrative proceedings is no longer considered a previous issue. However, in this case, the bankruptcy manager will have to be resolved, so he will not leave doubt or the possibility of another solution, he will have to be resolved if he does not cash in a year and a half and even when there are entirely objective circumstances that simply cannot sell it on the market. The very change of a bankruptcy manager will not help because the situation will remain the same. So here as I read it, there's no possibility of exculpation of a bankruptcy manager under any circumstances. I don't know if it was the intensity, the intensity of the promoter. And another problem that can be opened is even abuses, destruction of competition, takeover, shopping, etc., which is Article 13, which has been complemented by the current provision of Article 39(2) in a way that has so far been said to have been able to launch bankruptcy if it makes its demand likely, however, it is now specified, and it is said that the believer has made the likely existence of all his demand if its existence is based on an executive correction or an unlawful judicial or administrative decision. So the question is, what's going to happen? And beyond that, Article 40 states that the proposal for the opening of a bankruptcy procedure cannot be withdrawn, so the question arises, if that judgment or administrative decision ends in such a way that it is likely to be the existence of a claim, in fact, that the claims have no meaning that the bankruptcy proceedings were initiated, the proposal cannot be withdrawn and the court finds that the claim was neither. I'm warning of the possibility of a misappropriation of someone starting a lawsuit for you, let's say a lawsuit and saying that my investigation is probably because I'm running a lawsuit over it, I'm asking for bankruptcy, and then I'm quick and I'm buying this unsub completely, completely, completely, so no more parts per piece. Please, if the minister knows it can't happen, he'll explain it for sure. And of course, now that it is the conduct of a lawsuit, i.e. the administrative procedure is no longer a previous issue and it is no longer necessary to wait with the closure of bankruptcy, there is no need to wait for a powerful justice. The question is raised and, of course, it is clear if it succeeds in a lawsuit in a way that the bankruptcy mass will increase then there is no problem. Therefore, they will act on the solution as well as on the subsequent assets found in the event of an inheritance. However, what happens if there is some claim to bankruptcy from this case. So, I don't see or maybe I skipped out on whether there's a provision somewhere on the obligation to reserve funds for a possible outcome of a lawsuit in a way that this debtor will be subject to some claim. Thank you very much. In this regard, we would be happier if this law were in two readings, but we understand that changes and additions must be made in view of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21235	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Branko Vuksic, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21236	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. So here's bankruptcy is actually in the market-developed economies one perfectly normal, we would say everyday phenomenon, everyday thing, normal because after the bankruptcy of companies in most cases these companies continue to operate, and their employees don't actually know or can't say they're free to even notice that they actually went through bankruptcy in their company. In contrast, in Croatian circumstances bankruptcy is almost without exception a very traumatic experience because it regularly means the liquidation of society, i.e. the complete termination of its business, and this automatically means that workers end up on the road and most often empty-handed, and the same fate in terms of the collection of their claims is shared by other creditors of companies. In Croatia, the fingers of one hand can list cases where bankruptcy ends with a reshuffle, so cases where the company continued to operate after the bankruptcy. Unlike the still in force bankruptcy law, which envisioned the possibility of redesigning and continuing business, the other thing is that it did not work for us, this law that we are talking about today does not foresee the possibility of reshuffle, so under this law, bankruptcy will, without exception, mean the liquidation or end of the business of an economic operator without any alternative. Namely, this bankruptcy law today is the third missing link in a legislative package that the current government has designed to address the problem of destroying indifference in Croatia. I will remind the first link was the Tax Debt Payment Measures Act, which was adopted in the early spring, which allowed entrepreneurs to regulate tax liabilities or tax debts to the state through the reprogramme for 36 months. The second link was the Financial Business Act and before a bankruptcy settlement with which this Banking Act is actually in force on 1 October and which allows the debtor to continue to return both his liquidity and his insolvency to normal business by applying financial restructuring measures and deals with creditors. The third link is exactly this bankruptcy law we're talking about today. Therefore, all those entities that in the first two steps, so through the tax debt reprogramme, and through a bankruptcy settlement will not be able to consolidate their business will have to launch bankruptcy with the fact that in this case bankruptcy will also mean a definitive end to the existence of the company. So the three laws mentioned are complementary to each other and make up a unique legal platform to address the problem of non-payment. The government, the current government is very categorical, so it is very determined to solve the problem of indifference because it has literally blocked economic activity but in a way that, before applying this most rigorous solution, it has offered bankruptcy the possibility of a reprogramme and the possibility of a bankruptcy settlement. And now a few words about what this law actually brings. This law brings first of all an additional and new bankruptcy reason. In addition to the existing two, which are incompetence for payment and over-indebtedness, the new reason for the launch of bankruptcy is indifference by defining indifference in two ways. Therefore, it is inequitable if more than 60 days are late in the settlement of one-fifth of the total liabilities expressed in the balance sheet for the past year. And another way to define indifference is that if more than 30 days are late with the payment of gross wages. The introduction of this bankruptcy reason, therefore, will be achieved at this point, i.e. this introduction is very important because it will precisely achieve that the bankruptcy procedure is being initiated in due time, not as has been the practice so far that bankruptcy started too late when the company was already completely naked, crushed by long-term inequity, and when the company's assets were completely decomposed and, consequently, the possibility of charging the creditors was almost zero, so in practice, very often zero. So, in this way, the likelihood of relieving the credentials is actually increasing significantly, and then the worker that we've heard a lot about today is about the changes in the Penal Code. What was also a very big problem in previous bankruptcy practice was the length of bankruptcy proceedings. Too often, bankruptcys have stalled unwarrantedly, so we have examples that they lasted more than 10 years and 15 years. The amendments and additions to this law during long-term and such inefficient bankruptcys have become over time. The bankruptcy process is being significantly shortened, significantly accelerated and achieved through several mechanisms. Therefore, firstly by defining cases where bankruptcy is opened without the implementation of the previous procedure. The second mechanism is to limit the previous procedure to a maximum of 60 days and the third mechanism is a legal provision under which ongoing litigation led to the burden of bankruptcy cannot pose an obstacle to the implementation of that final division and the conclusion of the bankruptcy procedure. As a function of increasing the efficiency of bankruptcy, there is also a legal provision that says that the once submitted proposal for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure cannot be withdrawn anymore. Therefore, this provision makes it impossible to use, unfortunately, the practice of abuse of the possibility of withdrawing proposals for the opening of bankruptcy very often so far. In fact, the believer would submit a proposal to launch bankruptcy, exclusively with the aim of setting himself up, so that he could collect his claims and as soon as he did, as soon as he was charged, he would withdraw the proposal to open the bankruptcy. The effectiveness of bankruptcy should also contribute to provisions much more stringent than the current ones treat the role of the bankruptcy manager himself. So, for example. The bankruptcy manager will no longer be able to lead to dozens of bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. the same bankruptcy judge will be able to conduct up to three bankruptcy proceedings. Furthermore, the creditor shall be relieved of his or her duties if, within a year and a half, he or she does not cash in the bankruptcy property or create conditions for access to the final share of the bankruptcy mass. This deadline of a year and a half is the deadline for the cashing-out of heavily cashable assets. And if it's an easy cash-flow property, then it's only 9 months shorter, or it's only 9 months shorter. And that's not all when it comes to bankruptcy managers, so a bankruptcy manager can also face the most difficult situation, or sanctions, and that's a solution for not knowingly carrying out his duties. If such a case occurs, then the discharge due to the unconscious performance of the duties in that case shall be lost and the bankruptcy manager shall be entitled to a reward for his work. It is clear from this, therefore, that even the bankruptcy managers will no longer be the only ones to profit in bankruptcy, no matter how long the bankruptcy leads and what level of payment the creditors make. And they will need to be far more responsible and far more efficient. To conclude, all in all, and this law should be one effective, one effective tool I would paint a good broom that would contribute to the cleaning of the Croatian economic scene from incompetent economic operators that spread that non-payment infection, i.e. indivisibility. And that is why this legislative proposal should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21237	Thank you. Next up for debate Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21238	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law in the most part are therefore addressing the problem of harmonising its provisions with the provisions of the Financial Business Act and pre-bank settlement. Therefore, since this problem is now being addressed in the pre-demand settlement procedure as set out in that law, it leaves the possibility of financial restructuring of the bankruptcy debtor in the bankruptcy proceedings. The practice so far has shown that a large number of bankruptcy proceedings lasts extremely long as it has been observed in relevant international studies, and the bankruptcy procedures that have been launched so on average have led to only 30% settlement of the credentials' claims. The concept of a pre-profit settlement should therefore result precisely in the greatest improvement of the current bankruptcy practice, which is the fact that the redesign of the company was only an exception, not a rule. Since it becomes clear that there is no pre-determination in the pre-departure procedure, when it becomes clear that it is not coming out of the insolvency situation and that the company cannot recover is justified in the bankruptcy procedure as soon as possible to try to remove formally what has already been dead. The second pain of the bankruptcy process was its slowness. Maintaining an economic operator that can no longer normally operate in life rarely brings positive effects, on the contrary, such an economic operator continues to accumulate losses, assumes obligations and increases debt and general indifference. I would like to remind you that thanks to the practice of the long-standing insolvency proceedings so far, indifference reached more than 5.3 billion euros at the end of last year. Such economic operators did not pay their salaries most often, and their workers remained in them although their position was probably worse than those of the workers who were therefore formally unemployed. I therefore welcome the fact that these changes are going towards the concentration, acceleration and efficiency of the process. That's how you do it, for example. Some solutions prevent the abuse of procedural powers, e.g. Article 14a reduces the deadlines for action so far, or introduces deadlines for some procedural activities where they have not existed. Depending on the application, the future application of the law, I would even suggest that the possibility of further concentration of the procedure and further reduction of deadlines be considered. It is certainly a good solution to reintroduce the possibility of selling debt assets as a whole. This is a good opinion I am and because this solution also probably speeds up the process in relation to the situation when certain parts of the debtor's assets were sold individually. This is a good opinion I am also that there is even the possibility that this whole can be re-launched by the economic operator before the bankruptcy. This objective of speeding up and more efficient settlement of bankruptcy will certainly contribute to the introduction of the possibility of settlement, therefore, as an alternative way of resolving disputes. Thus, it adds another tool that can be used to complete the bankruptcy process as quickly and efficiently as possible. For all these reasons, I believe that the proposed amendments and additions will certainly contribute to their stated objective. But as I cited before one of the basic pains of the current bankruptcy practice was the fact that so-called. This bankruptcy with the reconstruction was rather an exception than a rule, and in order to improve such practice and because of the tendency to give economic operators who have the potential to start a new start, it was therefore proposed to introduce a pre-accession settlement and to hope that more economic operators than ever before would have been the case until this new start and arrive. However, unlike the economic operators that are legal persons and therefore have the formal possibility of such a new start still remains the fact that such a possibility is still not given to natural persons in our law. For individuals getting into debt too often means entering a dead end without being able to go out. Recently we had the opportunity to see such examples in Zadar the example of the Vukic family who had lost their home and had almost no property due to the debt of which a large part of the interest, and regardless of their total debt is even further growing so it did not essentially decrease significantly. And because of this example, which unfortunately is not a lonely opinion, I think that the possibility of a new start should also be given to individuals. The institution of personal bankruptcy exists broadly and applied in the most developed Western countries for a number of legitimate reasons both economically and socially. I would therefore take advantage of this debate and propose to the competent ministry that it certainly consider the possibility of introducing into our legal system and the institution of personal bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21239	Thank you. And last to discuss Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21240	God forbid I'm the last one. Mr. Vice President. The HDSSB club will support changes and additions to the bankruptcy law, bearing in mind everything that has been said so far. I also apologize because I had to go out just a little bit about the work of the board, but here in this debate, first of all, I want to warn about certain things that I hope these amendments and additions of the law will end, that is, above all, the longevity of the bankruptcy process itself. The fact that some still last for a dozen years, even 15 or more years, that practically in this bankruptcy process only benefit and in certain bankruptcy procedures the only benefit is that the bankruptcy managers are in a certain way continuing to operate in such companies, which even has nothing to do with their original activity. We had examples that a metal industry produced vineyard columns, etc. often supported by certain trade unions. On the other hand, there are now between 200 and 300 bankruptcy proceedings that last more than three years. and what I particularly warn myself about is that no matter how much we have changed and made changes to the supplementation of this bankruptcy law, no matter what the workers and I am sorry that this local self-government is not in another payment order, because often with workers it is the local self-government that cannot collect its claims because it is at the bottom of the bankruptcy process, and I think that there should be additional attention to the ministry that behind the workers should be a local self-government that I would not say that here is in a particularly difficult economic situation if it went directly towards the business of the owners to the companies that are located I would say in a difficult situation where many are in debt and practically located on the edge of some legal business and bankruptcy procedure that the measures would affect the bankruptcy immediately so that local self-government could not be charged and would remain in this last row for payment. So regardless of all these changes still those who manage to charge are just the banks. No matter what is more in the law in the payment priorities of the bankruptcy process, but since the banks they gave and also the series to say questionable loans, I don't mean this HYPO bank loan in the shillings that today was about, but first of all, the companies that they are still protected by other laws not only by the bankruptcy law are often placed properties under the very mortgage. I hope that this law will also prevent the lot of one property and that it will be retained and saved activity right through and the very speed of the bankruptcy process has so far been possible for bankrupt managers, based on the bankruptcy law, to destroy the activity, to sell not only the craftsmanship but also the basic assets of a particular company. In this way they definitely shut down production and practically shut down that type of activity. Well, that was the case in many cases of bankruptcy. And I hope that, given the new draft budget, the government should, in particular, warn that certain other economic measures that are not closely linked to the bankruptcy law itself, that no new bankruptcy should be produced and that are particularly endangered here in Slavonia and Baranja, the family agricultural holding, and this is another appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to sit with producers of particularly milk and other agricultural cultures in order not to put an end to this type of bankruptcy production and then those images we had in Zadar because this is not just about companies but about the name and last name of the OIB, etc. where practically the entire assets are taken, and the banks remain protected. Finally, here are some warnings, and above all, the intentions of the HDSB club will be supported by me personally by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21241	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. Comrade Damir Rilje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21242	Respect, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers and representatives of the ministry. Dear colleague, I'm actually on this structure continuing my story. She's not contrary to what you're saying, she's continuing. In fact, I'm asking one specific and fundamental question, which is, in a situation where units of local self-government that aren't in the other order of payments keep property, for example. municipal companies that were once in charge of something, burdened with various guarantees and losses and blocked, but the local self-government unit is paying off these debts continuously through exchange guarantees to preserve the property, because it is indirectly the owner, for example. utility companies. Keeping that property and having to pay for it, without the property leaving what is said on the drum, keeping that property is, in fact, given the appropriate funds from the city's budget and, of course, trying to take it as a sort of restructuring and preservation of property as the property of the city. On that side, it would be neat and correct to, for example, be. Takes note of such a single investment in the preservation of the business of such a company and that it is accepted as one of the situations that should be primarily respected in the provision of funds of the city itself, i.e. citizens of the unit of local self-government. Not everything in life is under one fraction and not everything in life is the same. So here's a story from a practice that really exists, which is like that. That's why I needed to rely on my predecessor's powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21243	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, pal Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21244	So here I will continue this I would say constructive debate and indeed this is a request and the HDSSB club that, first of all, after the first paying order of workers here in the second payment order and immediately behind them are the units of local self-government because it is primarily workers, but also about the fact that the unit of local self-government is often through industrial, business areas programmes, through land giving under special favourable conditions, through the co-financing programmes of the economy, etc., in many cases invested large amounts of money by citizens. And we have examples where, for example, An entrepreneur who has two companies, one company completely frees the accumulated loans, liabilities, sales, cash in those funds, gets the prize and that official Mercedes, and the other company assigns it and practically with the same loans and takes it into bankruptcy. It is primarily a matter of crime and crime, and more so when the time comes, but I think that the particular judiciary and the state's attorney's office are also present in Djakov, special attention should be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21245	Thank you. This is what we're done with individual debates. And finally, on behalf of the Proposer, please welcome the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21246	Thank you very much. I thank you for the support the law has received, so just a few references to what is highlighted as possible problems. So, as far as Article 9, yes, exactly, that's our intensity. Believers have the option of deciding whether the bankruptcy manager worked well and whether he cashed or not. The fact that he wasn't on the market might be a favourable condition for his problem. They're the owners and it's consistent with what we're introducing. The one whose money it's up to. So that's where we give greater rights to the believer, and I think that's justifiable. As far as Article 13, presumption, probability, it exists now. We're making this clear because we've had ourselves in court practice, unfortunately very often, that this particular issue is inadmissible, so maybe it's mislabelled in your debate. It's not about the initial court procedure, it's about the inadmissible decision to interpret it differently. Is that likely or not? Here again, we find it likely that the search is for these needs we have here. As far as what we're saying, local self-government units are in second meaning higher payment order, so that's already arranged. They, of course, need to secure their potential claims in another way. What you mentioned is, in fact, more about the pre-determination process than the bankruptcy process itself, but it absolutely means when dealing with the good master's attention to protect, mortgage or any other means of insurance, that they are also protected. Here's more or less anything that's been opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21247	Thank you, Minister. We have a replica. Here you go, pal Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21248	It's just a warning, so you can't put a mortgage on it anymore because they put a mortgage on the banks. You just don't have room for any kind of charge anymore, and they're at stake if it comes to it, it can't even come to the sale of the real estate itself, so even the workers can't charge themselves unless there's some political pressure from the government or I don't know what. So it's pretty hard to do that sometimes. And if you go with measures before bankruptcy, then you are declared a undertaker of economy, craftsmanship and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21249	Thank you. Well, usually mayors are presidents of the municipal society congregation. ... All right, I got it, buddy. [[You can't hear him.]] This is what we've ended the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21250	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 85 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 8 abstentions, have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Law, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21251	And we move on to - Final bill on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for crimes and offences, second reading, P.Z. No. 136. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Do you want an introduction on behalf of the Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21252	So there's one in front of you that I'd say packages of those criminal laws that will still be, here I am announcing tomorrow at the government there are five or six final texts. So, I'll be staying here a lot by the end of the year. So, two reasons. The first is the need to comply not only with the Penal Code, but also with the Law on Juvenile Courts. And the second is some kind of spotted not particularly large but illogical in the current law. So, first I said compliance with these laws. Secondly, we are working on some things, for example, now introducing a clear distinction in jurisdiction to carry out educational measures between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. So far, that section has not been clear enough, and sometimes it doesn't know who's doing what. It's another thing. Although it was meant to be, but we are strengthening the confidentiality of data from the juvenile proceedings and clearly knows who, how it can come about. Next, we raise the rights of minors in the execution of sanctions, meaning their separation, in general the treatment of being set up in a more modern way. We're introducing new weather modes for minors at the disciplinary center right now. So far it's called the Breeding Center, now it's a discipline center. So not only do we change the name, but with that and the content. A leader must now be appointed so that it is known who cares about whom of those minors who are in such a position. The specificities of accommodation I have already highlighted in the law are how much the essence of prisoners, as far as they are not, the conditions in which they are located, so I say one thing is what I said harmonising termologically and others with these two laws, and the other is actually this one I would say improvements in the status and treatment of minors when it already comes under the influence of this law, or the application of this law. Here, it's short on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21253	Thank you, too. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Unless we're starting a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club Vesna Fabiančić Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21254	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In July of this year, we had before us the first reading of this bill, and now in the second reading, the Final Proposal for a law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences. The issues proposed under the law concern the enforcement of an educational measure of increased concern and supervision, the accommodation of minors in the execution of the sentence of juvenile prison, the enforcement of security measures imposed in criminal proceedings and the safeguards imposed in the infringement procedure. We believe that the proposed solution to the enforcement of juvenile sanctions for criminal offences and offences will contribute to reducing the high percentage of juvenile relapses. The fundamental rights of minors are established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as other international regulations and contracts. The procedure for the enforcement of juvenile sanctions has not been regulated by a special regulation until 2009 although it is a particularly sensitive population that enjoys special protection. In order to fill that legal gap, as well as to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in line with the legal property of the European Union in that area in 2009, a law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences has been adopted. In order to comply with the subsequent Act on Juvenile Courts and Criminal Law, the need to adopt amendments and additions was also indicated. This harmonisation, as well as some of the needs of nomotechnical nature, would lead to the amendment and addition of even one third of the existing provisions, so it is certainly easier to pass a full law as set out in this final text, as those who directly apply this law in practice will certainly be able to do so than with amendments and additions. The law is fully addressed to minors, which is certainly good. This is, therefore, because it is a particularly vulnerable population that needs to be taken into account about the educational role and importance of resociation. A good approach can greatly affect this sensitive population and lead it on the right path. Let us remember the 2011 State Attorney's Report and it showed that criminal charges in slight growth, with regard to sanctions imposed by the juvenile council of youth courts, made 1109 decisions, of which 958 sanctions are educational measures for minors, and only an extremely juvenile prison of 14 more precisely. Why is it important to mention this information? Because the legal framework should give the necessary balance between prevention and repression, this balance is imposed as necessary. Young people who have found themselves on the wrong side should be helped, and punishment should be an exception. The purpose of juvenile sanctions should be to provide protection, care and supervision. As sanctions, minors are given punitive measures of juvenile prison and security measures whose enforcement of the Law on Juvenile Courts and Violation Act only governs in principle. Therefore, the regulation of this area and the clear distinction of jurisdiction in the enforcement of certain sanctions certainly contributes to strengthening the entire system. Thus, in a very clear way, it is distinguished that the enforcement of educational obligations, which are specific obligations to refer to a disciplinary centre, increased concern and supervision, the supervision of a living room in a educational institution, the reference to a educational institution and the reference to a special educational institution in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Affairs, while the enforcement of the measures of reference to a juvenile institution and the punishment of a juvenile prison is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. The strengthening of instruments to strengthen the resocialisation of minors is certainly the enforcement of an educational measure of increased concern and supervision, i.e. the introduction of a completely new obligation of the Centre for Social Care. Therefore, due to effective enforcement and educational measures, the centre is required to determine the person who will carry out the special obligation of increased care and supervision and to report to the Centre for Social Care and to submit a full report to the State's attorney and to the court. Furthermore, this law prescribes the enforcement and measures of juvenile prisons with particulars prescribed in relation to the minor population. Thus, a minor will be placed with another minor and exceptionally with younger minors, and in any case there can be no more than three prisoners in the same room. The right to stay in the air of minors is prescribed for 3 hours unlike the adult prisoners who are entitled to 2 hours. The minors have the right to visit family members four times a month and a holiday, unlike the adult prisoners who are entitled twice and on holiday. According to minors, no specific measure is allowed to maintain order and security of loneliness. All in all, we support the final proposal for this law guaranteeing minors the protection of the fundamental rights established by the Constitution. In particular, the confidentiality of identity data is guaranteed, and this final bill guarantees the procedure for the enforcement of juvenile sanctions and measures in such a way as not to endanger their human dignity, resolves it in a way that is adapted to the person of the minor and the protection of the personal property rights of the minor is in the jurisdiction of the Social Care Centre. For all things, the SDP club will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21255	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Vishno Fortun. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21256	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for the adoption of a new Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences is, among other things, a large number of amendments and additions to the provisions in force, then compliance with the Law on Juvenile Courts, as well as compliance with the Penal Code adopted after the last amendments and the addition of the applicable law. It is also important to stress here that practice has pointed out the need to specify certain provisions in order to make more effective enforcement of juvenile sanctions. That's how they are, for example. all calls and references of minors to the enforcement of the educational measure to a educational institution which is in the jurisdiction of the ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary required the required exclusive jurisdiction to prescribe the exclusive jurisdiction of that ministry. The provision of Article 10 of the final proposal for a law fully distinguishes the competences of the call and reference to the enforcement of educational measures imposed on minors from the competence of the two ministries and removes the question of who is conducting the reference and for the enforcement of the educational reference measures in the educational institution. Namely, the educational measure to refer to the educational institution is a kind of deprivement of the freedom of minors but its enforcement is properly applied to the provisions applicable to the execution of prison sentences, i.e. juvenile prisons, and the execution of penalties is within the jurisdiction of the judge of enforcement. Here I would highlight the fully new obligation of the Centre for Social Care in order to make more effective enforcement of the PBI educational measure - enhanced concerns and supervision of Article 35 of the final proposal of the Law, it is prescribed that the Centre for Social Care is now obliged to determine the person who will carry out the educational measure of enhanced care and supervision, that is the leader. The host may be appointed from the ranks of expert workers in the centre or external associate. In order to implement the educational action, it is necessary to establish an individual programme of action. This will now contribute to an even greater social inclusion and socialisation of young people in conflict with the law and youth with the problem of behaviour. The minor stays in his family, in his midst, continues with regular schooling, and the manager assesses whether increased care and supervision require involvement in specific obligations such as. inclusion in the individual joint work of the Youth, humanitarian work, the work of associations, subjecting the drug withdrawal process or other addictions or in matters of communal or ecological significance. Given the very sensitive age group and complex problem, the centre is only one link in protecting and promoting the welfare of children, young people and their families and is directed to wide cooperation with all those who care about them. The Centre in this area therefore cooperates primarily with educational and educational institutions, health institutions, family centre, police, the judiciary of civil society associations and religious communities, local community and competent ministries. I also consider it essential to prescribe provisions which have the possibility to propose specific provisions in the course of the implementation process to facilitate the implementation of the measures most acceptable to the minor. Although the final draft of the law allows the implementation of certain educational and security measures to be entrusted to citizens' associations, the problem is that the system of financing these associations is not regulated and that will create difficulties in achieving this possibility. But I believe that in the course of the process and in the future, a solution will be found. The law also allows the Social Care Centre to trust volunteers during parole, but the issue is also the training of these volunteers to carry out such supervision. We hope that, after the adoption of this law, a rule on its implementation will be passed and that no case of the Law on Juvenile Courts will be repeated when, last year, from the adoption of the law to... the rules implementing the law. For all these reasons, the Club of Representatives of the HSU will support the adoption of the Law on the execution of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21257	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club supported this bill in its first reading. We commend that the law went to regular procedure here and we will now support it as a final proposal. In view of the amount of amendments proposed, of course, we welcome the proposal for a completely new legal text. Let us remind the Law on the execution of sanctions imposed on minors for crimes and offences was first passed as a separate law in 2009 because until then there was no law that would fully regulate this matter. There were therefore certain provisions in the Law on Juvenile Courts, however, not sufficiently normised and elaborated procedure for the enforcement of sanctions. As we have said, no necessary actions have been identified to initiate the execution of the sanction either criminal or criminal. As regards the Criminal Code which prescribes criminal sanctions and safeguards that could be given to minors, it also does not contain provisions on how they are executed. There is therefore the need to pass this special law. Since it is the application of sanctions to one particularly vulnerable population. The population at the beginning of the journey, which is going in the wrong direction, is then estimated to need to be brought up by proper and good approach and can still be influenced by real life. Therefore, this was seen in practice in the application of this law since 2009. We can see from statistics that almost 90% of cases in the case of minors are subject to educational measures, and the detention of juvenile prison sentences and sentences of juvenile prisons have been applied very selectively because they always try to reach out for other educational measures. It is also seen from statistics that, compared to the educational measures given in the jurisdiction of social care, the majority is directed towards outside of the education measures in almost 88% of cases. In accordance with the general trend of deinstitutionalisation and use of local community resources. In particular, in the case of minors, the success of the criminal justice response to the criminality of minors depends primarily on the correct selection of the intended sanction. So if a minor is given a punitive measure that does not correspond with his personality and with the social opportunities in which he lives, the purpose of punishment for these young people must first be socialization and action pro futuro. It is good that this area has a special law, and already in 2009 in the 2009 law, the matter is fully in line with the EU acquis. Here is this proposal, the final draft of the law, which corrects the perceived indetermination. First of all, it is good to clearly distinguish competences in the field of social care and jurisdiction in the field of justice. This Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences shall, above all, be aligned with the Law on Juvenile Courts and with the 2011 Penal Code. So double standardization has been dropped in these two laws, and some subjugation has been resolved. We are assessing a very good provision that through the increased concerns and supervision carried out by the social care centre it is mandatory to determine the person who will carry out this educational measure in order to know exactly who the perpetrator is following, who is responsible for this implementation of the measure. Here is the proposal for a law of Article 54, which provides for additional improvements to be made in relation to minors on the execution of the sentence of juvenile prison. It is good that it is now and legally prescribed that minors must be placed with other minors in a cell exclusively unless the conditions of prison conditions allow then with younger minors and that there can be no more than 3 prisoners in one room. We know this will be difficult to implement in view of the financial situation, the state of the budget and the situation in prisons and penitentiary. This is why it would be good for a lot of good things to be foreseen by the 2009 law, and also by this law to ensure implementation and to ensure sufficient resources, which will not be easy at all. And here's what I'm going to conclude, we're going to support this law. The improvements have been made which, in relation to the execution of the prison sentence and the educational measures for minors and, finally, should be appealed to the fact that what is prescribed can and can be implemented and that the conditions and procedures that must be based on an assessment, the diagnostics of the need and degree of risk of minors and their social opportunities in order to ensure, in addition to the punishment for the offence committed, that the primary task of rehabilitation and retraining for the future life of which and the rehabilitation will not benefit only him, but also the entire community. I hope that this law will be more successful than the prison law we have been praised for since 2001, 2002, from all over Europe, but unfortunately we have never fully implemented it because there was simply no funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21259	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21260	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDSSB club will support this law. Here at these moments when we are really little in the assembly I also don't believe that other than this broadcast on Assembly TV one medium follows the session of the Parliament. First of all, I want to take advantage of this opportunity not to prolong too much in view and in time, it is indeed an appeal that all together will have as much effect on the reduction of these crimes and offences that are present in minors. It is primarily an appeal for prevention not through those prevention councils in the units of local self-government but primarily through and first and basic through the family itself because the foundations of education are just coming from mother and father, not wanting to enter into the debate about that medically assisted fertilisation and all the opportunities that this law has made possible. Through school, through church, sports clubs, local self-government, a wider community. Because at this point we also have certain new types of addictions that are not only related to the personal use of easy and difficult drugs but one new type of addiction is certainly and not just sports betting, but dependence on gambling in general where this new type of addiction is increasingly affecting the increase in the crimes and violations of minors themselves. Often in this time of survival and this economic situation, and starting from ourselves, we give exactly the least of our time to those whose time it is parenting advice, and above all I would say the time we are obliged to give to children is the least of our time. Well, here's what might be appealing to ourselves to spend as much time as possible with these youngest ones, because the basics of education are acquired right in the family itself, less and less in educational institutions, and more and more of these negative phenomena are gained in society itself, given everything they are surrounded by both the media and the society itself in a broader sense. So here's by accepting and supporting this bill, I think that this appeal is to each of us individually, and so are those who look at us in any case need to consider it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21261	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. Here we will all agree that this law, this proposal is actually a law of harmonisation on the one hand by the Penal Code, on the other hand the Law on Courts for Youth, but also an arrangement which is very important because of the introduction of structures. Today, most lawyers said, I did not, but I was interested in this law purely in the aspect of education, i.e. from the aspect of concern and by reading this law I actually welcome great concern for young people, I can say young delinquents whether it is a criminal offence or an offence. I have to commend this law because it was very clear to me when I read it, it's beautifully written, precisely because you see the protocol. It's a clear protocol in conduct, it's a clear protocol in jurisdiction, who does, what does, when and how much. As for the time since the educational measure was given, that is, since it was delivered to the Centre for Social Care, it is very, very important for the raising of minors. And that's exactly why I'm so glad it's here to determine what time it is. Of course it matters as short as possible, and this proposal has set exactly an 8-day deadline of power when it is actually to be delivered. And of course, the center must take all measures to actually start without delay. Individual treatment programmes are also listed, which is very, very important and these individual programmes are jointly defined, done together. They're working with professional associates, but parents are involved, and these minors are involved, which is also very, very important. Why do I say that? Well just because they're responding, they're individual, they're special because they match special bases. Not all these kids are the same, not all the bad guys are the same. Hence, the risks of possible misbehaving are respected. Therefore, these are all very, very positive things that this Law gives. When we talk about implementing educational measures to discipline centres, then I should say that there are also certain institutions where this will be conducted, both the time and the method of enforcement. During the enforcement of the educational measures, a minor continues to attend school, and he also keeps an eye on education in terms of non-compliance with the rules, i.e. the lifestyle of such a child, in fact, re-expressive measures prescribed by specific rules. Therefore, I can say that this law has just solved a confusion of jurisdiction that has not been determined before. For example, the educational measure of reference to the educational institution is a sort of solution to freedom, which is why it is very important who does it, because it is actually shown, or one seriousness of approach. In the end, I would just point out a few special obligations which is very good. Why? For example, for traffic. When I talk about special obligations, a minor is referred to a competent driver training facility in order to check his knowledge. It also gives me one good hope that we are actually starting to deal actively with this problem. Why? Because it was usually that the misdemeanors were piled up in court drawers without any special effect, and we know that very often our minors drive fast and drive without driver's licenses and so we have very consequences they're big even... Such young people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also welcome the specific obligations we have, which are actually supervised by the police, which is to prevent further escalation of violence among minors. Because what it's about. Your calculations go so that you go by the principle of that eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. So when one of them gets attacked, then he picks up his own group and then attacks this other one, etc. So here I welcome these very special things that must be distanced, i.e. it cannot be accessed by certain localities, i.e. certain persons. And it's a great provision that allows minors who have violent behavior to go through a program of stopping and controlling their behavior, hence a psycho-social education. It's the same big, big worry. That's how we help them, in fact, personally. Finally, I also welcome the fact that a minor under whom an educational measure has been carried out has not been met with the assumption of his return to the family that he may temporarily be placed in a foster home. This, of course, is in line with our social care reform, which is beyond institutional reference beyond institutional concern. In this way we are actually helping, it is a more humane concern for minors who have strayed because of poor education in their own family. And finally I welcome another trip and great care for juvenile delinquents, and on the other hand I commend very clearly writing, a clear approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21263	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. Franco Vidovic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21264	Dear Vice President, thank you, esteemed ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues. This is mentioned during the debate with a colleague that the measures put forward must reach the Social Care Centre within 8 days. I think it's been that way before, but what's problematic is basically just the execution of sanctions because of the re-acceptation of nursing homes and similar institutions. I can't. I've generally been offered the most by the case of my fellow citizen Jura Kulaza. It is an object that happened about a year ago, so somehow at this time last November 26th, there was a serious crime committed by a minor who had previously had 48 hundred criminal offences, which is the same part where the system has to be asked how these children continue to walk on the street and without anyone taking care of them in that positive way. So, what happened was that after some kind of spell in the disk, a minor reacted in a way that he waited for the student outside and then it practically broke his skull. That guy Kulaza's a tough guy today. I went to see him maybe a couple, two, three months ago. It's here in the Krapina Spas, unfortunately. Whether he will ever recover, surely he will never again be the man he could have been. And what's problematic is the whole story, I'd only ask the vice president to let me finish saying it because I think it's important. What is important in the whole story is that the Municipal Court therefore sentenced the minors on 4th of July 2011, that the verdict became final after the refusal of the appeal in 13.10.2011, and that the Centre for Social Care reacted immediately, so within 8 days and then received a measure according to the nursing home, however, the educational home simply had no capacity. It was 21.10., 25.11. was decided however on accommodation in January 2012, but 26.11. this one did what he did. I think these are things that we all need to ask ourselves about together as a society. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21265	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Franco is right, and you are such an example, and we can cite other examples of very similar, unfortunately, you have shown in this way how essentially repression can be prevented from acting on a relapse. And that's why it's important time. At that time, however, it is not only important but it is the infrastructure where we will place them. And that's where we get the problem, which is basically this prison system. We've got a little penitentiary, we've got a little underage. So, however, we need to think about what to do in that period, in a period when it waits for this to happen, how to prevent a relapse in that sense? So if there is no room for this, and this law says that this period has to be done further, this period needs to be seen what happens to such relapses as they happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21267	Thank you, too. This is what we've ended the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 192. Thank you and a pleasant sequel to the evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-20-0.u21268	Final draft law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, second reading, PZ No. 136. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that it is unanimous with 114 votes for the passed Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and infringements in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues can continue to work. We are going to discuss the bill on changes and supplements on preschool education, and not this has been delayed on preschool education I have already announced. We are going to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention establishing a Council on Customs Cooperation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 194 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
