ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17066	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. The 2011 report on the work of the state's attorney's office is in front of you. It was done as the President in its opening statement in accordance with Article 40. The State Attorney's Office Act also contains data on the state and movement of criminality declared to the State Attorney's Office, contains data on matters relating to the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, legal issues in certain areas of work, and other information on the organisation of the state's attorney's office as a whole. This Report does not contain data on specific specific items in accordance with Article 40. The Law on State Attorney's Office and also in accordance with the recommendations of the missions of independent experts of the European Commission to meet the conditions for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Before presenting the basic data on the state and movement of crime, I would like to point out through several words about the position and role of the state's attorney's office in criminal proceedings, but also the role of the state's attorney's office in connection with the property interests of the Republic of Croatia. The basic law and obligation of the State's Attorney's Office shall be as set out in Article 38. The law pursues the perpetrators of crimes for those acts that are being prosecuted under official duty. Therefore, in the criminal section of the State Attorney's Office, there is a fundamental task in persecuting the perpetrators of criminal offences. When, therefore, considering the success of preventing and detecting criminal offences of the structure of the reported crime and forms, it is necessary to appreciate that the State Attorney's Office is working as a law enforcement body, not a detecting body, and Article 2 should also be appreciated. The Law on State Attorney's Office under which the State Attorney's Office is obliged to take legal action in order to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia, and to apply legal means to protect the Constitution and the law but it does not have and should not have the power, nor in any other way, to provide for or dispose of the property. What am I pointing that out for? Not because of the reduction of the responsibility of the state's attorney's office in one area and another, but I would like to say that the prosecution of the perpetrator of the crimes is indivisible from the work of the police detection body, inspections, state inspectorates, state audits, etc. a in the affairs of the protection of property interests against legal solutions of certain areas and the work of the state administration. Only by synergy and by the executive authorities in this segment when I talk about the administration, that is, the police, of course, and the legislative parliament and the laws that you bring to the success of the work of the State's Attorney's office as a whole can it be unquestionable. Notwithstanding the fact that in our annual report, it is in the numbered indicators that in the second part of the annual report all comprehensive data relevant to the assessment of the performance of the work of the State's attorney, or the number of data that responds to questions about the state and movement of crime, or procedures on the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. In the opening part, I'm going to say a few words that are important, relevant to individual departments. I'll start with the penitentiary and finish with the civil department. From the events marked by the work of the State's Attorney's Office in the 11th year, I set aside the application of the Criminal Procedure Act for all state attorneys. As you know in September 2009, the Criminal Procedure Act, which was applied only by the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, entered into force after two years of experience in accordance with the legal solution of this new Criminal Procedure Act, applies to all other regular state attorneys. The new Criminal Procedure Act has changed significantly the role and position of a state attorney in criminal proceedings. He is no longer a passive entity as he was before, waiting for only criminal charges to be filed, but also for the investigating judge to complete the investigation, but now for our reconnaissances to be conducted, etc. etc. This is a major change not only in the organisational sense of the word, but also in relation to the state's attorney towards detecting, or persecuting, crimes. We are aware of these new responsibilities. Finally, the fact is that a good part of the jobs of former investigative judges, the state's attorneys took on themselves and that, ultimately, now fully responds to the success of the criminal proceedings that was initiated. Of course, the new Criminal Procedure Act has certainly led to a shorter duration of the proceedings as a whole, of course we cannot say that in relation to each case because the length of the criminal proceedings depends primarily on the numerous involvements of special experts, experts above all on financial and accounting, etc. which limit the speed and end of individual complex criminal cases by their work. This is another opportunity to point out the positive effects of the new Criminal Procedure Act which has been in place for three years in the jurisdiction of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, and I argue that without this law and its elements, the instruments of pardon that have given the state's attorney the opportunity to be more aggressive in solving certain criminal cases that the success of the State's Attorney's work over the past years would not have been as good as it was in the past years. Here it is necessary to say that the very application of the new law, especially one which significantly changes the structure of work, was assessed by the Constitutional Court last year, and the constitutional decision did not in itself question the law itself except for some parts of the law which did not in itself question its founding or the proceedings that had taken place so far. It was precisely because of the new Criminal Procedure Act that the number of employees, whether officials, or employees, were appointed to the State Attorney's Office for 180 so that the total in the State's Attorney's Office is now 1646 persons, of which 617 state lawyers and deputies, advisers and 833 employees and other employees. I stress, most of the time we took over the role of former investigative judges. Based on the crime movement – in 2011 there was an increase in the number of criminal charges filed by 3%. A total of 90,000, 631. It is not good that the increase in direct perpetrators of criminal offences means that the discovery is more unsuccessful than earlier years, and the other parameters and observed categories remained about the same level. Assessments of reported crime are a matter of the State's Attorney's Office, and dark numbers are primarily a matter of detection bodies, so the police, inspectorates, inspectors, etc., etc. Working on criminal cases has kept the level of awareness from earlier years, 54 thousand and 401 cases have been solved, with 9 thousand and 306, of which 174 or 0.27% of the total number in the state's attorneys. The structure is the same as before, property crimes are the most numerous, then crimes of drug abuse, etc. Acting on criminal charges, the state's attorneys resolved 19 thousand 550 criminal charges, i.e. a person or 44.6%. Indirectly, 47.6% were charged, and an investigative request was filed against 7.8% of people. The success of the work is valued by the verdicts made and in all the state's attorneys, the success of the convictions is 87.3%. However, speaking of this, I must stress that, we have been saying this for the past 2.3 years, a large number of rejections of criminal charges. In the report, we tried to answer the question why. We said that this primarily refers to a significant number of criminal cases that are at the border between crime and crime, especially in connection with drug abuse. We emphasized the existence or decision of a court in Strasbourg in the Maresti case against the Republic of Croatia in which the decision was clearly stated that cases in which the infringement proceedings were carried out should not be subject to criminal proceedings if the same thing is concerned. As a result, a large number of cases under the Maresti decision have led to a large number of rejections of criminal charges. On the other hand, it is precisely in order to make our work as transparent as possible any criminal charges of damages or interested persons etc. they are entered in a criminal register, appropriate decisions shall be taken, including a decision on the rejection to be delivered to any applicants of criminal charges, to any damages which have the right to take criminal prosecution in the appropriate manner as resolved by the Criminal Procedure Act. In the report, compared to the criminal part of our work, we specifically processed frozen property and found that we had total frozen 255 million kuna in 82 insurance measures, and in 1020 first-degree judgments, the courts seized property benefits compared to slightly less than 80 million kuna. One segment that is interesting in 2011 as well as in earlier years since the law was passed is a strong number or a growing number of criminal charges against legal persons, 55% of criminal charges have been rejected and 45% have been charged. Something about the work of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, which was particularly interesting in the public eye, whether from the aspect of the European Commission's monitoring of Chapter 23. In 2011, the office received a total of 1184 applications, rejected a very large number of criminal charges 716, and a direct indictment was filed compared to 58, and after a further 292 indictment was completed. The courts have made a total of 97% of the convictions or 353 convictions, including 344 condemning. This indicator, in a large number of judgments, confirms that USKOK deputies with caution and with great and strong evidence go to criminal proceedings because they believe that in such large and serviced cases of jumping jurisdiction it is not justified to bring the defendants to court and expose themselves to the great risk of acquittal judgments. On the other hand, the fact that 97% of the convictions are in favour of USKOK deputy directors in their cases using, of course, all the instruments provided by the Criminal Procedure Act knowingly collect evidence and with these solid evidence come to court. As for the large number of rejections in the USKOK files, the findings are approximately similar to those mentioned earlier, except for one important fact that almost all participants in different court proceedings, whether administrative, commercial, civil, etc. In case they're unhappy with the court's decision, the judges, the state's attorneys, the notaries who don't. It is also part of the executive authority in the event that they are dissatisfied with the decisions made by that authority in the legal procedure. All those criminal charges must make a decision, explain that position and be given to the applicant the right not to pursue persecution. Compared to all the items that have been taken over by the damage to my information, none of them have been successfully completed. And where there was a situation where the state's attorney after the damage intervention checked the situation in his case, there was the possibility of a state's attorney returning to play, but there was no such situation in nature last year. Of the convictions, 50% are prison sentences, well above the 20% average of all state lawyers. In order to be able to complete this exposure in due time, I will shorten the part relating to the individual chapters of the Penal Code that are being processed in this report. I can only point out that there has been a significant reduction in the number of charges for the crime of the threat, which were the most numerous years ago, and are still, but more than 20% have dropped the number of these criminal cases. In view of the fact that last year, in relation to this head, due to criminal offences, the right to work and other labour rights has been dealt with in particular by the part relating to these offences and found that last year there were 177 applications for a criminal offence referred to in Article 114. Penalty law. However, in relation to these offences, we have stressed that, following the current legal resolution, these offences can only be committed with intentional, and according to settled case law, persecution for these offences can only be successfully carried out in case there was no objective possibility of payment, etc. Because otherwise, there are acquittals. In this regard, it should be pointed out that in situations where there is no prosecution for these or those reasons, the defendants' proposals are submitted for the appropriate offences. In particular, we emphasized Article 626. The law on trade societies and interventions in this direction which we have proposed through a new legislative solution with information that we have also provided to the Croatian Parliament. In relation to other areas of crime, I would like to draw attention to a part of the report, which, where we are talking about the crimes committed by hate, we have specifically discussed this on one of the committees. And also in our report, I want to highlight what we have always mentioned for 3 years in a row, and these are data on special evidence actions and that, and what is interesting and important that the Croatian Parliament knows how many measures were used to tap the phone, track, etc. Because the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has put in place control of the work of the lower state's attorneys' offices precisely in the application of these measures. Data on pages 101 to 103 show that last year a significant number of warrants fell, that orders were issued only in relation to a 728 warrant compared to 1781 persons. So the implementation of these evidence actions has not been brought into question by fundamental human rights. Why? Most of these orders were issued, according to the report, in relation to the abuse of intoxicating drugs in relation to drug dealers, and over 60% of these evidence stores were successfully completed and these results were used in criminal cases. The application of the new Criminal Procedure Act, however, does not only have positive effects. Certain provisions of the law are the reason why in the last year the state's attorney's office was called, primarily in public or in the media. The state's attorney's office is being accused of so-called. leaks of information because whenever a part or content of a particular evidence store is shown or published in public, they all point to the state's attorneys, believing that the information of a girl from the state's attorney's office. Is that right? If you think a little bit about who all the participants of the proceedings are, whose aim is to do so, then you could come to a completely different conclusion because you need to know at the moment after a warrant to conduct an investigation, all the participants of the case have the right to review the entire file and can fully dispose of it in the same way as the State's attorney. When the Croatian Parliament adopted the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 231 was prescribed that the conduct during the investigation was classified and that all persons who found out the content of the proceedings were obliged to keep secret facts or information they had learned at that time. However, this article has been changed and it no longer applies to the media. In this situation it is practically impossible to control the situation in relation to publication because proving from where they leaked the information is virtually almost impossible. Of course, this does not mean that the state's attorneys are not in all these cases where the information was being leaked trying to reach the suspect, but despite the involvement of the police and our work we failed to obtain that data. I believe that in this direction this problem should be dealt with legislatively because otherwise it will happen that the information leaks in the next period, in the next period. But there are two options but of course it is not decided by the State's Attorney's Office but exclusively by the Croatian Parliament in case such an initiative to amend the law comes to you at all. It is either that this part of the investigation is not secretive or that it should be returned to the original form of Article 231. The CAP which has disabled any publication of any content that has been protected. Finally, I believe that in the previous period, despite the heavy burdens of applying the new Criminal Procedure Act and the reorganisation jobs that we had in this regard, the 1st of January puts into effect a new Penal Code which substantially changes the criminal and material rights therefore another major reform law. He makes major changes in a special section by prescribing a number of new works and changing old ones. And that State's Attorney's Office will have a very big problem, not only the State's Attorney's Office, but all those who deal with material and criminal legislation, so both the attorney's office and the courts and private lawyers, etc. find the best appropriate solutions to speed up the handling of these items. Something about a civil-government part of the state's attorney's office. It is equally important for both scope and importance to work in the civil-government part of the state's attorney's office. We had a slightly smaller number than in criminal but 72726 cases. Most of it's court cases. According to the structure of the items received, the most received other cases were 46%, land-based and extra-parity cases, 37% of the execution, 15% of the litigation and 2% of the bankruptcy cases. In particular, litigation cases which were in operation at 7712, etc. are composed of litigation cases. In the new litigation cases in which we represent under the law the total amount of the claims amounted to 3 billion kuna. Almost 2 billion less than the previous year, from which the Republic of Croatia as prosecutor 719 million or 300 million kuna higher, and on the side of the defendants 2 billion 321 or twice as much as 2010. During 2011 in the cases in which we represent the courts made 7141 a first-degree ruling. Of which nearly 4 thousand were received in total or 56%, 1650 litigation or 23% were lost and partly lost or won means half-half 346 litigation or 4.8%. 3.6% of settlements have also been made, which is the most important part and the conclusion of settlements has been in criminal or civil and in other ways alternative ways of resolving disputes are, in my opinion, the most important part of the work that state lawyers must turn to in the next period. Even better results in the civil section are in representation of trade courts. There's further detailed information that I'm not trying to convince them right now. But the important thing is we got 87% of the lawsuits and lost 8%. In 2011, there was a significant increase in the number of executive procedures. As an executive, the state conducted 15372 executive procedures and launched 5484 procedures for the purpose of ensuring demand, and 2985 enforcement procedures were initiated against the state and 20% for safer demand. The largest number of executive procedures has been initiated on the state's proposal, which shows that the collection of claims has been more serious, although not yet sufficiently systematic, but I hope that this direction too, especially because of the need for budget and orderly fiscal policy, will also be in 2012, a number of these cases, and the first indicators already show this. There's been a huge increase in bankruptcy cases because we specifically processed it in graphs. During 2011, there were 1075 new bankruptcy cases while a year earlier there were 438. These are data that are deeply concerned by themselves but I speak to them statistically about the work of the State's Attorney's office and not about the problem that makes companies go bankrupt. The total height of the reported claims by the Republic of Croatia in bankruptcy proceedings amounted to just over 5 billion kuna. A year ago, there were 2 billion kunas. It concerns the fact that in the course of the bankruptcy process, the liquidation of the bankruptcy mass in the already open bankruptcy proceedings is going very slowly. There are no interested customers, so the advertising of sales is repeated repeatedly, and in parallel, the purchase price is reduced, as a result of the obvious economic situation and other circumstances that were discussed in the report. A total of 4366 new cases and 452 administrative disputes were received during the reporting period. There is a growing number of cases with the fact that, after the establishment of administrative courts and the new organisation of administrative courts, the involvement of the State Attorney's Office in that part will be significantly higher than before, so that we have to within the system, within the house to reorganise the jurisdiction, i.e. representation in these and such cases. The same important area of work is the process of giving an opinion that almost 27% more were than a year ago. In accordance with the Croatian Parliament's recommendation, the report provided data on the material resources from the budget for the work of the state's attorneys and the data in the report shows that the state's attorneys and USKOK totaled 283 million kuna last year for their work, of which the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia 21 million, USKOK 22 million, county attorneys 80 million and municipal attorneys 158 million. In their reports, state attorneys point out the lack of funds that are primarily reflected in the means of material expenditure and the means needed to work under the new Criminal Procedure Act, which are the means for appropriate skills. These years, including '11, we've bridged that part, but that part of the spending depends not entirely on the means planned but depends on the development of certain criminal cases or civil objects in which expensive skills are needed. In this direction, there are certain contacts with the Ministry of the Interior on strengthening the Centre for Arts in order to carry out these skills within this independent centre and thus potentially reduce costs. In the paper, we will continue to focus our special attention on those ways of work which reduces the number of cases in court, alternative ways of resolving disputes, opportunity, settlement and the like, but also those areas that contribute to the effectiveness of persecution, etc., etc. Another thing about this report, which we submit to the Croatian Assembly in accordance with Article 40, is that according to the recommendations of the Croatian Parliament, we have provided a whole series of information on the court proceedings in which the Republic of Croatia is a Croatian Parliament, a report on the actions taken by the State, in order to determine the offences and violations of the report of the State Audit Office. In addition, in the context of the application of Article 173 of the abuse of intoxicating drugs and the initiative to amend the Penal Code in terms of provisions that have been in the law so far and to transfer part of criminal liability to a criminal for the possession of intoxicating drugs. Then we made up information on the court proceedings in which the Republic of Croatia proposed measures to reduce their number, information on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period and in this direction proposed a certain amendment of legal solutions, etc. And another thing in the end, before my time runs out, something about chapter 23 and the latest report on the state's attorney's office, which refers to monitoring. In the latest report on the state's attorney's office, you were only talking about two segments, war crimes and corruption. As for monitoring, the European Commission points out that the Republic of Croatia continues to prosecute war crimes, but that most of the crimes have not yet been prosecuted in court and further efforts are needed to resolve impunity. They're looking to improve the base of war crimes that we've committed in the past years, specialize in war crimes courts, protect witnesses, and also audits for absentia trials from earlier years. As for the fight against corruption, they stress the need to strengthen the procession, but before that also to expose corruption at local levels, also to the system of supervision of rejected criminal charges in the work of the state's attorney's office. In that direction, I must say that the two experts who have been here have completely different views on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17067	Your Honor, state attorney, time's up, you'll have a chance to talk more.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17068	Here I am, finished, President. And that would actually be it. Of course, this report and the contents of this report can be discussed a lot, but I am here to answer questions or possible dilemmas or possible criticisms about work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17069	Thank you very much to the attorney general. Do the rapporteurs of the Board of Working Bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. Before we open the debate, one notice. The session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports called for today on 16 October will be held tomorrow on 17 October this year at 9am in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic, chairman of the board of Jadranka Kosor. I'm opening a debate. Let's discuss clubs. The first club to apply is the SDP club of Croatia and the respected representative of Peđa Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17070	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Before the start of the presentation, allow me to welcome the dedicated and sacrificed work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia both in the fight against crime and in the fight to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in all fields of the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Unlike the infamous East German... whose motto was to be the shield and sword of the party the state's attorneys must be the shield and sword of the state, the state and its citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They must be a shield of state and citizen against crime, from criminals, from abuse. They must be the protection of property and the rights of the state. On the other hand, policies are tasked with providing the state's attorneys with legislative and material working conditions. We believe that in the case of the state's attorney's office today in the Republic of Croatia politics has removed its hands from it. It wasn't always the case in the past, but today it's the case. For this very reason, the SDP advocates' club will support the work of the state's attorney's office and will support this report. But here we must mention this isn't just a report from the esteemed Mr. Bajic. This is a report on the work of a service that has more than 1600 employees, this is a report on the work of a service that has more than 600 judicial officials. In this place, on behalf of the SDP club, I thank all these people for their dedicated work and everything they do to punish the guilty in the Republic of Croatia, and the innocent are freed. I would also like to thank the State's attorney for including in his report both in writing and in his oral respect the recommendations made here by the MPs in such a way that he included in the report some of the things that were missing in our opinion in earlier years, i.e. in his report he made very clear and precise proposals for improving the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Given the scope of the report, we will look back on only certain parts of it. First of all, we'll talk about the work of the Civil-Governmental Department of the State's Attorney's Office. The esteemed chief state attorney spoke about the size of the job, the extent of the state's attorneyship's representation in civil-government matters. Accordingly, we must commend the increase in the number of settlements both in total, meaning individual settlements and in the amount covered by them. Although compared to over 3 billion kunas, the amount of 140 million kunas of affected objects seems few, it still represents a significant shift compared to previous years. However, we believe that the State's Attorney's Office must make additional efforts in this field. And in this respect, we welcome the recommendation of the attorney general, which is to continue continuing working with the executive authorities in order to provide material means to make deals. We do not want settlements made to remain dead on paper, i.e. the parties to these settlements have to move into executive proceedings against the Republic of Croatia and thereby charge additional costs to the state budget. However, we ask the State Attorney's Office also that when in a particular case, it was criminally clear that the case was being lost, that all necessary measures were taken to complete the case without creating additional costs. Although the State Attorney's Office must in some way push those cases when it is quite clear that the outcome of the case for the State will not be successful then the obligation of the State's Attorney's Office to stop, to terminate and thus reduce costs. Furthermore, we see a certain problem in the work of the Civil-Governmental Department of the State Attorney's Office, especially in land-booking matters. We believe that the work of individual departments is not always uniform. The Republic of Croatia is a single state and has a unique legal system and is inadmissible so that state attorneys in certain cases act in different ways. As far as criminal cases are concerned, we must certainly commend the increase in the number of applications solved especially when talking about the State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb. From the data provided to us, it is evident that the number of applications solved is greater than the number of items received. We must certainly commend this because it makes it clear that this is the way to keep the work up-to-date, to solve the backlogs, and to come into a situation where at least one segment of the judiciary has an up-to-date which guarantees legal certainty for all citizens of our country. But here, too, we have great problems in inequality. Part of that problem was talked about by the state's attorney. However, we must stress. The differences in rejected criminal charges are huge. In some state attorneys, they are at a level of 33% of rejected applications. At USKOK level, we are talking about 60% of rejected criminal charges. When we talk about the conduct of Article 28. The penal code, or according to the principle of opportunity, has a situation where 29% of applications are rejected in Dubrovnik and 6% in Karlovac. I will stress once again the Republic of Croatia is a single state and has a unique legal system. These differences are inadmissible, and regardless of the explanations that the esteemed attorney general has given, we must insist that these differences be reduced. However, these differences, or 60% of rejected criminal charges, are particularly worrying when it is compared, for example, with 97.5% of the convictions. Of course we're pleased that the State's Attorney's office is showing success in the work, of course we're satisfied that the state's attorneys are acting cautiously. But this difference of 60% of rejected criminal charges and 97.5% of the convictions indicates that state lawyers may sometimes be too cautious, or too conservative. Although costs should be taken into account, while it should be kept in mind that procedures are not without meaning, for no reason a certain freedom, namely a certain course of action when a state attorney feels that someone is guilty is necessary. State attorneys sometimes have to take chances. These figures show they never do that. This report is not just a report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office. It has a very important part about the state of crime in the Republic of Croatia. It's about the trend of growth and increase. It speaks of the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there are a lot of differences in the conduct of criminal acts. It also points to other state authorities what they must do. For example, it suggests that in certain counties where we have three thousand crimes per 100,000 residents, the presence of the police may need to be increased. But it also indicates that the Republic of Croatia is basically a safe country. That the Republic of Croatia with the number of 1 murder per 100,000 inhabitants is at the bottom of the world scale and we must be content and proud of that. Finally, another State's Attorney's Office report should be accepted. It's good, it shows that the State's Attorney's office is doing well. But we also think that some things have to change. We believe that, above all, it must work to level the criteria in the work of state lawyers, that it must work on further independent evaluation of the process of rejecting criminal charges. The percentage of 60% we talked about earlier suggests that the instruments that exist within the State's Attorney's Office may not be enough, that it is necessary to consider establishing an independent body that will assess whether it was always necessary to reject a particular criminal application? Furthermore, there is a need to work further on peaceful dispute resolution, to increase the number of settlements in both civil and criminal cases. Furthermore, we ask the State Attorney's Office to continue to pressure the executive authority to cooperate better, but we also ask the State's Attorney's Office to give clear instructions to the executive authorities when it is necessary to stop in some cases and when it is necessary to move on. And finally, we're asking for additional control and cost control. The state's attorney spoke of not being able to always influence the costs of art in certain cases and that it is not always in the court's domain. However, we believe that there is more to be done in this field and we are asking the State's Attorney's office especially in the situation of the crisis in which the Republic of Croatia is in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17071	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a report of a respected representative of Damir Caine on your display. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17072	Says a colleague of the coat of arms that state's attorneys should take a chance, that it's not good that they're conservative, and I think it's the opposite. That a state's attorney should certainly be conservative and that no one has the right to simply play with people. State lawyers need to be 101% safe before they engage in any dispute or individual processing. Imagine how anyone feels about an anonymous application, let alone when the institutions of the state start to deal with you. And so much so, under the quotes "conservativeity", is something that is an advantage, not a flaw of a state's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17073	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17074	My dear colleague, I couldn't agree with you at all. In fact, apart from the State's Attorney's Office, we in the Republic of Croatia have a court. The state's attorney's office is acting on different levels of suspicion. At one point in time when there is a basis of doubt, it is done on criminal charges, where there is a reasonable doubt, and only when there is a certainty that the crime was committed and who is the culprit is the only time the conviction is pronounced. At a time when we have 97.5% of the convictions in the area of work of a certain body, it seems to me that the State's Attorney's office has decided before the court proceedings are initiated to seek certainty that the offence has been committed. And I ask that we return to reasonable doubt. I ask that we take a step back and pray that even when we are not 100% sure that the crime has been committed, this particular person is being prosecuted and then found guilty and innocent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17075	Thank you very much. Club of representatives of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17076	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Attorney General. At first, I will repeat what I have done for the past five years when this report is in question, I will not support it, and the other representatives of our club will decide on their own to vote. Because we are here not discussing the report as a document, but also the work of the State Attorney General and USKOK and all the state's attorneys in the Republic of Croatia. And I won't use words like it was a year ago, two when he was a representative at the time, and today's Minister of State's Attorney General called Stanbajic but I will try to warn about what I consider not to be in the report but in the conduct of both the USKOK and the State's Attorney General and the State's Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia is not good. I would be pleased if you would discuss this report at least 4 times a year because then you would probably have a 4 times bigger number of anti-corruption actions in Croatia. The subject of protection of workers' rights is the current Article 114 and, from 01.01 next year, Article 132, which should protect workers from non-payment of salaries. The report reads, and Mr Bajic reiterated in the introduction, that they rejected 177 complaints due to non-payments of salaries, explaining the fact that in Croatia there is a court practice that there must be an intention of non-payment of salaries. Therefore, it must prove that the employer had money in Croatia or in the Campan Islands but did not want to pay out the salary. This is why the State's Attorney's Office in Croatia did not even open proceedings before courts for committing a crime of non-payment of wages. It states in the report that other violations of workers' rights, health insurance, non-implementation of court decisions have led to indictments against 49 persons, that courts have reached 48 verdicts, that 36 persons convicted by fine or parole, others have received a golden kuna or have declared managers of the year. But what's the problem? And I'm glad that Mr. Bajic said that, when we didn't find out about the court's behaviour, not reading the law, the grounds for filing a criminal charges for non-payment of wages, then we went to a felony. But in Croatia, if I am not wrong in 1995 there is a provision in the Labour Act that when an employer does not pay the salary or part of the salary that the worker is obliged to issue an account, a certificate of unpaid pay, part of pay or severance. And the Labour Act for not issuing a certificate of unpaid wages provides for punishment, i.e. A If you haven't filed criminal charges for committing a criminal offence, why didn't you go to criminal proceedings and punish your employers for not issuing a certificate? What's more important now? 01.01. next year, a new novel, a new provision of the Penal Code, in Article 132 which, by the way, was in my court, and I was also speaking in the Parliament when the government, the former government proposed this law, more unfavourable for workers, by the content of the more unfavourable, but in the meantime we passed a law, a new law, amendments to the law on the executive procedure of money. And in that law they introduced the provision that it was precisely that confirmation of the unpaid salary was an executive document, although it had already been written in the Labour Act, only the old procedure was to go to court, and now it would be possible to go directly through the conduct through the FINA. And now I'm asking you a question, if even under the new Penal Code, we're going to consider non-payments only as an employer's property, what about not giving a certificate of unpaid wages, part of pay or severance? No one sanctions it as a violation, says Mr. Bajic that the courts have introduced practice that it is not a criminal offence. And for days now, the media has been reporting news that workers will now be able to collect their salaries through the executive procedure. So why lie to people? Well, the problem is that when employers don't pay their wages, they don't even give confirmation that they haven't paid their salary. And if we had respected the existing laws of a few years old and sanctioned it in violation today, we would have far more order. But no punishment, no offense to anyone. The state took care of itself, the executive procedure, the tax charge at the speed of lightning. All debts among the owners of the capital at the speed of lightning, but the collection of employee claims, that doesn't already need the speed of lightning. So if we've prescribed the obligation to issue a certificate, but if it doesn't give it to anyone, it's not a violation, because no one's reporting anyone, it's not a criminal act because the courts have decided to do so, they've interpreted the article of the law. It's a basic grudge, Mr. Bajic. It's the same thing every year. I commend part of the report on bankruptcy, particularly the highlights in the report that warn the most crime was prior to the opening of bankruptcy proceedings. And you testify by citing a series of examples, a situation. But then I'm worried about the following: in 2011, there were 758 bankruptcy proceedings, you filed 148 applications, of which there were 94 rejections and 40 charges. We are all aware that just before opening the bankruptcy process and the agony that has been going on for years, companies were actually being put into a situation that was no longer in the bankruptcy process to collect. And you're making a very interesting proposal, and I quote from your document: "With the amendment of the Law on Commercial Companies, the state authorities should notify the State's Attorney General immediately upon knowledge of the debt and inability to pay in order to ensure the collection of these claims in time and thus prevent abuses." Therefore, the State's Attorney's report appeals to the state authorities who are in charge of this immediately after the first information report to the State's Attorney's Office that there has been a failure to pay or over-indebted so that they can intervene in time. I agree with that proposal, but what's the problem? This is the government's opinion on this report. The government of the Republic of Croatia has not shown itself on this proposal. By accepting this report, does the Parliament accept this recommendation from the state's attorney? The government has not shown itself about this proposal. If the ruling majority accepts this report, does this mean that it has accepted the obligation to notify the state's attorney immediately after the failure to pay or over-indebted? Why the government's testimony when in the context of the state's attorney's proposal, they don't have a single line of evidence. Furthermore, as regards the confiscation of assets amounting to an estimated value of 79 million kuna in USKOK and state lawyers' cases. Since it's only the initial stage of the freezing and confiscation institute I'm going to say a solid start. We will be able to show satisfaction when this value of frozen or seized property will be about the same assessment of the value of corruption in Croatia, and we do not need to repeat how it is evaluated and how it can be estimated how much of this ends in corruption. And another thing, in his report, the state's attorney gives two more warnings. If 136 places had not been filled that had been provided for by the Regulation or by the normative acts, it would have been necessary to amend the legal provisions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office relating to the first designation. Has the Government of the Republic of Croatia shown itself about this proposal by the State's Attorney's Office? Does the Government accept the State's Attorney's proposal to amend the law and procedure for the first appointment? She's a stranger. Furthermore, our assessment is that in 2012 the difference between the planned and achieved funds and the necessary and necessary resources will be much greater because it can already be said that this will question the effectiveness of the work of state lawyers in the area of proof of certain criminal offences in which art and other costs significantly exceed the usual amounts. So the state's attorney warns us that in 2012, which is this calendar year, there won't be enough money that in complicated cases where skill or other evidence is needed, let's say that American satellites are hired to track ships that drive drugs to Croatia via Egyptian ports, they don't have money. He warns us of this because the government has one word for it. Will you make sure you increase money for the work of state attorneys in the Republic of Croatia or will we say no this year you have to work with that money that you got whether you can artificially insert complicated objects or not? I, in effect, see the role of the Parliament's debate on this report in this particular matter. If we know of 2, 3 possible problems today, if the state's attorney in his report warns of the problems that are present and we accept the report and then we put it in the drawer and do nothing more, then the report can be very brief and write we exist, we work, there's not enough, we don't have enough money, so we won't be able to do everything we have to do. That is why the procedure provides for the Government to give its opinion. The government does not give us any hope that what is now referred to as a problem will change the situation more significantly. To what extent does the right of workers to pay their salaries lead to bankruptcy or financial collapse, so for example, it is not considered a criminal offence? The latest data suggests 38676 legal persons who have 41336 employees working together have been blocked in Croatia. When you divide it on average, the blocked company has 1.06 workers 1.06 employees on the blocked company. And in natural persons, 34717 were blocked with 24000 employees and 0.7 on average by one blocked craft is the number of employees. So, he pays gross or net in all those who are in the blockade couldn't lead to the reason for that blockade. And how long until we realize that the state's attorney and the state's attorney's office must be in the post of protection of workers' rights, so long as we allow courts to create and interpret the law in a way that we have to prove that someone has purposely failed to respect workers' rights, we will not be able to agree with this practice or behavior, or the state's attorney's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17077	Thank you very much. The next is the HDSSB club and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17078	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chief State Attorney, MPs and MPs. The 2011 State Attorney's Office's report, as well as previous years, contains numerous and exhaustive statistical indicators, benchmarks that speak to us and indicators from previous years that certainly give valuable data on the state and movement of crime by categories of crime, according to age groups and types of perpetrators. It is also possible to analyse trends in the occurrence of certain criminal offences and to get a certain impression of the quality of protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia by the State's attorney as a legal agent. According to aggregated data from the report, I will not look back at reports by county, it is evident that there are no significant deviations in the structure of initiation or in the sanctioning structure for most of the crimes that are individually analysed in the report. But as it is known to anyone who has dealt or met with statistics, statistics speak for themselves and nothing and the glass is half empty and half full. For example, when it comes to criminal acts of economic crime, according to data from the report, the number of accused, convicted and convicted of crimes of economic crime has been in constant decline since 2007. The report interprets this trend by changing the structure of these works as more and more applications are filed for fraud in the economy, and are reported according to the report, due to the inability to prove false intent, as a rule, being rejected. The public perception, but also the view of the HDSSB, is that economic crime has not been reduced since 2007 and has not been reduced, and which is why daily Croatian workers are in dozens and hundreds of Croatian companies who end up in bankruptcy because of robbery, thieving, corruption and incompetence, nepotism and political entanglement. State property continues to be unscrupulous and ruthless innkeepers, unfortunately both without account and without innkeepers, but everything on the burden of Croatian citizens. Tens of billions of unpaid payments to the state, thousands of ruined businesses, tens of thousands of company ficus that were used to suck out money, hundreds of thousands of out-of-work jobs, all of which have several hundred applications for economic crime a year or a thousand. We have recently had an almost tragic situation that both state audit and parliamentary representatives and media react and conduct a practical joint investigation to almost force the state's attorney's office to react in the beginning to a very clear picture of the malversions called the Mountains. The post-festum from the State's Attorney's Office gives us an answer as to how the reconnaissances were reportedly conducted. It's about the works that were done a few years ago. The public good scenario, whether by land, factory, house, business space or building is sold below the price of someone, is significantly below the price, and when the same or such good purchase by the municipality, city or state is then bought significantly above the price. It's a scenario that's been seen countless times, but the rule of law has generally reacted in a slow and ineffective way. Does the state's attorney's office have to react only when both the public and the media and the Parliament and all the debates about an event. Such a scenario, unfortunately, has been too common in recent years to be just a mere coincidence. The public perception that the state's attorney's office in cases of major corruption affairs affecting more political and economic circles is not responding until the individual case has already been discussed by the wage maids. It is also a public perception that the state's attorney's office chooses when and who it will report, taking into account the relations of political forces in the state, public opinion and the like. Given the way the attorney general has established a state attorney's office, which is strictly hierarchical with very strict co-ordination with his office as it had never before been set up in the state's attorney's office and credit for success, but also a number of questions about many failures must be directed right towards the attorney general. We have a new CAP that is reportedly more effective, and criminal charges for major affairs that have shaken Croatia are increasingly going to work, are being rejected or even cases go into stalemate. Is the state's attorney's office that has more employees than ever before, whether it's crowded, whether maybe the attorney general is overworked or the whole system is as it is today, and in the first place I mean it the way the general statesman set it up, simply began to triangulate or that system never worked fairly in Croatia. And should Croatia be given a new show every year before the State's Attorney's Report in the Croatian Parliament, a new parade? Is that what Croatia needs? Because the arrest and spectacular extradition of 19-year-old students and their parents for buying a college exam is nothing more than a reckless parade and a circus for the public and the media of hungry sensations. On the other hand, the discovery that someone is capable of fake, falsified, and bought a radio for years in public administration unpunished by two lines on the last page of the newspaper. And we also read about these cases, and there are as many as you want so far. So, all together media pomp, arrest, public lynch, one-month detention of a regular student who bought a college exam is not a way, it is not good at the end and for our Croatian society. Everyone should be responsible for their misdemeanor but not in such a way. And who shares that information with similar journalists, who forms public opinion according to their needs, who is excellent and has worked very well with Dr. Ivo, and then with his successor accompanied this Ivo. Whom until yesterday the SDP wanted to replace, and today it advocates and why. In the assembly, it can simply be felt the easiest to say that there is some discomfort in all party club MPs when critical and public talk about the work of the chief state attorney. It is not good for the state, it is not good for Croatian democracy. There must be neither sacred cows nor taboo topics in Croatia. We in the HDSSB, which is a regional democratic, pro-European and national party, have no confidence in the protector of the property of the Republic of Croatia, which, in its opinion, goes to the US Embassy or which is expropriated by third class intelligence. On 2 February 2010, the main Croatian state attorney met with two US Embassy employees, including a special agent for security issues, to inform about the course of the investigation in Operation Spice, a alleged document published on Wikileaks, which was made by then US Ambassador to the Republic of Croatia James Foley on 12 February of the same year. Also in a note from the US Embassy in Zagreb after meeting with the chief state attorney in January 2010. Published on Wikileaks, the following is stated: "The case for which Croatian prosecutors are the most interested is the illegal intervention between Sanader's friends and Austria's Hypo Alpe Adria banka. In the case of Hypo Sanader, he allegedly arranged a loan of 4 million German marks to his neighbour from the 1990s, Miroslav Kutla, for which he received 800000 German marks from Kutle in return. The truth of the matter, according to the DORH notes and multiple indications of the attorney general, most of the meetings described in these and other reports published on Wikileaks did not occur, and the content of those that occurred is different from those recorded in the American dispatches. So that was the State's Attorney's response. But there was no credible investigation by the authorities about this, and "if he lies to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn". What about the texts that the state's attorney in chief sent to Sanader and which are published on a single portal these days? What with the previously published SMSs of the chief state attorney sent to the late journalist today or our still alive and well-standing media tycoon in the Republic of Croatia, which concerned numerous investigations. What about 500 phone conversations with a newspaper reporter who always reports the state of all investigations conducted by the State's attorney? Foreign embassies can't decide when the rooster's going to whine so it won't be too early in a pot. It can be done in colonies, it can be done in banana states, but it can't and can't be done in orderly and sovereign states. Croatia has enjoyed dirty power for the past 20 years in various forms, and Croatia needs clean hands. Croatia does not need a new J. Edgar Hoover, Croatia needs an Antonio Di Pietro. So what kind of affair would it be, for example, in the United States, if their chief state attorney were to leave in his own opinion, for example, to the embassy of the friendly Republic of France? Have the competent public services analysed at all all all the Wikileaks dispatches concerning these informal and formal contacts of the chief state attorney with the foreign embassies and what does the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Government think about that and what this Croatian Parliament means about it? Personally, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, but also as a volunteer of the Homeland War and of the Croatian defender, it offends the fact that today we are at all able to discuss the State's Attorney-General's report after all this and all these scandals that have followed his work in recent years. Maybe it's true that "for a good horse to be dusted" but we think that the dust was already real and too much, that we've swallowed it up enough. Mr. Mladen Bajic, that you are, at any rate, the chief state attorney in any other normal, truly democratic state in which the government's trinity is unquestionably functioning, and that you have been discovered entering an embassy of foreign states and foreign powers and that you are still holding secret talks with their intelligence officers at the same time would be investigated. And if, in those normal democratic states where the government's tri-division is functioning, it is known to Parliament that you have been reporting or briefing foreign publishers about the individual criminal persecutions you are conducting as you did in the US Embassy, the moment before that Parliament, a procedure for your resolution would be launched. And finally, if the government's tri-division really worked in Croatia on independent principles for all of this, Mr. Bajic would have arrested you after the Croatian Parliament resolved you immediately after leaving this building, the repressive apparatus of the executive authority would have arrested you and handed you over to the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, with an entirely certain one-month detention due to the danger of influence on witnesses. Therefore, the overall work of the State Attorney's Office as far as the HDSSB is concerned can get a certain passing grade, but the Attorney General has no passage. Therefore, and because of the above mentioned club, the HDSSB will not take part in this farce at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17079	Thank you very much. It was the opinion of the HDSSB Representatives Club. And now we call on the representative, or president of the SDSS Club and the respected representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17080	Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The report of the State Attorney's Office signed by and submitted by Mr Mladen Bajic's Attorney General for 2011 is as well as the previous report in the past few years well-timed and presents facts which unfortunately do not represent the best picture of our society, but represent an objective state and objective representation of this state and work by the State's Attorney's office. What I would like to say here on behalf of the SDSS Club is the following few things, and some of them have already warned some colleagues as a colleague of the coat of arms. From this report of the State Attorney's Office it is clear that there is no uniform legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia in all its parts and that you have no equal chance of having legal certainty protected equally if you are in Zagreb or if you are in Gospić or if you are in Pula or if you are in Dubrovnik or if you are in Sisak. Multi-annual monitoring of the work of the State Attorney's Office shows, monitoring and, on our part, particularly in certain segments, that the county and municipal attorneys are not equally qualified or equally attached to their work. And in that sense, Mr. State Attorney, these figures or indicators you have serve us as a good basis for valorizing what needs to be done, and it seems to us that we need not only to make technical improvement but that we also need to make a human improvement in order to change such a situation. The more there are county and municipal state attorneys, the more they repeat it year after year when it comes to your report. And it's certainly ours and your constitutional obligation to ensure that in the entire Republic of Croatia citizens have equal levels of legal certainty. And this report shows that that's not the case. Another thing I would like to say is that there is a rise in crime in certain categories of crime. Since my colleague Lesar spoke about the problem of employment crime, payouts and economic governance and proper management of companies, either in other ways, I will not talk about it, but I will talk about worrying data on the increase in criminality between minors and younger adults who are normally concerned with the issue of drug abuse and the issue of property crime or criminality against property. Growth recorded since 2009, so when it was 5.8%, 2010. 8.2% and 2011. 9.11% is very worrying and very, very dangerous. Dangerous enough that in our opinion it is time and that the competent parliamentary committees and the government's competent authorities, in particular the ministry, these facts that you presented Mr. State's Attorney most seriously take into consideration. Whether this is the result of a general climate in a society where it is possible to take others, whether it is the result of a general climate that makes them an older role model for such things, whether it is the result of a general increase in disability and a general increase in hopelessness in a population that makes young people reach out to what is not theirs or reach for means that they certainly cannot solve their living difficulties or life problems such as poor schooling conditions or poor or no employment prospects, so we need to start talking about this drug abuse. And for that reason, I would repeat once again it's not just about your sanctioning policy, even though it could change, and what you're saying in your report that part of the offense, especially when it comes to intoxicating drugs, we agree with you. Because it unnecessarily burdens the work of the State's Attorney's Office and needlessly burdens the work of the state's attorneys. But the problem will remain because this trend is growing, not only worrying, but this trend of growth would certainly have to be taken into account by state institutions and try to stop. Secondly, what I would like to say is that there are 490 war crimes cases that have been committed in the war crimes trial, according to a 2011 report by the State's Attorney's office, several thousand war crimes. Nearly 6,000 people killed, or 6 thousand deaths, nearly 2.5 thousand injuries and over 3,000 abuses and 67 rapes. It's interesting, Mr. State's Attorney, that there aren't any here, in this category of war crimes of intimidation, persecution and destruction of entire settlements and property, it also belongs to the category of war crimes. And of course we know that a priority obligation is to sanction crimes committed against humanity, against life or against prisoners of war, but we also know that large-scale crimes have been committed under the means of destroying entire settlements, under the means of intimidation and under the means of persecution policy. And to remain only within the frameworks of such categorized and specific war crimes as you did in the state's attorney's office, so these 490. So far, 112 war crimes have been processed or covered, and there is a worrying tendency to reduce activities in relation to war crimes. First of all, because there is an extremely high percentage, even in this number of procedures, even in this number of indictments, so a high percentage of cases in which the state's attorney's office has initiated war crimes proceedings before the courts, and the proceedings have been lost. Almost 60% of these cases, if we're not mistaken, if we're wrong, of course we'd be happy to hear and gladly accept your correction. The number of unprocessed war crimes inherited from earlier years is, of course, reduced and the number of cases being processed is increasing but it is still not satisfactory. As for the relationship to the property, there are some segments in which the state's attorneys are quite harrowing, I can't say, and they're successfully recording the property, they're writing down property in land books, and this job has been done pretty intensely over the past few years. And in doing so, as we have warned several times before from this pay phone and in other ways, it was not about the fact that it was really about the property that could be registered as state property or about the property that people did not sign up as their property even though it was undisputed that it was the catastrian property that owned the property. This is interesting because there are no obstacles to such work, although it will surely bring serious difficulties to the Republic of Croatia and to the Croatian judiciary. So it is possible that it will bring serious difficulties to our government in particular because it is found that it is owned by the Republic of Croatia where there is no basis to do so, except, of course, the formal fact and the succession of what was called universal property or social property, although it is, this universal property or social property has long become the property of natural persons. But it's interesting that we still don't have a list of state property. If we go to any agency to deal with the list of state assets, we cannot get a complete list of assets owned by the Republic of Croatia. We can't get it to Audi, we can't get it to Dudo, and if we get it, then he's incomplete. We don't know what's wrong with that property, who's the real user, who's the real owner of that property. So, in an area where the state has a clean space to determine what is its, to determine what is its condition and who has what is its and whether, by law and by law, I have no activity here. And here where things aren't clean, where it's not quite clear what's state-owned and what's not state-owned, which belongs to the state, and what belongs to privates, that's where we sign up automatically and without difficulty. Why? Well, because there's no one to stand up to, because there's no one in the agency, because there's no one in the state's attorney's office who's gonna say it, so don't do it. If that's the case, then we have to find out that the state property isn't being properly guarded. And Mr. State's Attorney, we invite you to consider that and with your deputies, you find ways to change that approach. As far as the damages are concerned, things that are unfortunately years old in that part of Mr. State's attorney there's a relatively short description of the situation, and a rich description of what the regulations allow. It is said that there are around 450 claims for damages to the state and a little less claims from the state for damages in the interests of the state, but it is not explained in which these claims are in the state. What kind of request did she make? On what basis do they submit their demands? It would be good for it to become a visible team more than you and I know of at least one part of these 450 that are applicants of what it's really about. It is, in fact, the fact that we have an inadequate law to guarantee the legal and physical security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, an inadequate law on compensation for damages, inadequate since '96, then '99, and then in 2003 when the Law on Responsibility for States for damage caused by terrorist acts and public demonstrations was passed. Today, because of the policy that was conducted through the laws in '96, in '99, no citizen of the Republic of Croatia has any guarantee by the state unless it is secured by the insurance company that the state will compensate for the damage caused by public demonstrations, whether it is Pula or it is about Zadar or it is about Zagreb. Why? Because there are these few hundred who did not want to pay for their damage, there were, of course, thousands of them, but in the meantime, they either gave up or something else happened. It is time for Mr. State's Attorney to start an initiative on your part, as I suggest, to launch an initiative in this House that this legislative framework should begin to change and that the Republic of Croatia, as other countries do, takes responsibility for the damage to the property of citizens that they themselves cannot protect and is not their obligation but is the obligation of the state to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17081	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Damir Cain and IDS representative club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17082	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, State's Attorney, Here I am going to continue that little controversy this morning, and I'm going to say quite frankly that I'm not worried about rejections. I still think a conservative approach to the DORH can only be correct. If the DORH, for instance, raises an indictment like that, waiting for the court to rule, and then you've robbed Bosnia, that's what the people would say. On the one hand you have a state against you, you have a public opinion and the Priory she is immediately all bandits, thieves, against herself, a court that can also say first degree, so my verdict is not right, so let's say the second degree are. And I'm a man and I can make a mistake by that people's "And over the Pope's Pop," and you in the processes that can last years or you have money to run a dispute, or you have an instrumentation because the Criminal Procedure Act is absolutely on the side of the prosecutor, you'll lose your career and so let no one in this country play with people. No one has the right to do that. Neither does the State's Attorney's Office. Anything can, I say in life can come back a reputation but what you can't bring back it's a simple time. For example. I'm looking at a case here by Mr. Herak, the paradigm of the principle that the DORH must not, as the representative of a club said, take risks. He was able to defend himself to express my innocence, but what does that mean for him, for a family without whom he was left? How much money, debts, health, years of life have been put into that? And that's why I say simply, gentlemen, let's not play with people. Prosecutors, look out, I can't say we made a mistake, sory. If a man makes a mistake especially in politics, we all know what's coming to us, we have to leave. And what if the prosecutors or the state's attorneys, or the DORH or the courts were wrong? Sory and I made a mistake. In the first case, he suffers in public and in the second case people who have a name and who have a last name are injured. And that's why careful with people and that conservativeism about the conduct of DORH in my own court doesn't have to be bad. The policy is that, then, he can risk it, the DORH can't risk it. Risking the DORH turns it into a media policy, not a serious state institution. And that is why I say that Croatia should not, as HDSSB colleagues said and Di Pietro, because we know Di Pietro eventually ended up in politics and Mr Bajic must remain in the judiciary because he is far, far more useful. But I agree there is nothing to go to the US Embassy, but I will repeat once again that today Mr. Bajic is very much in need of both the Croatian judiciary and Croatian politics. What I want to point out is the same thing when we look at this report on cca 170, 180 pages, these are always interesting reports, to see from one side of DORH's activity, to get some insight into the state of justice, not to say criminality, to suggest what the state's attorney's intensities will be in the years ahead of us. I know someone will tell you what kind of society your justice is, that's your policy, that's your DORH. If society is corrupt, then there's a lot of things elsewhere. But I'm also going to talk about some of the DORH activities that I'm following up on the opportunities mostly in the County of Istria. What Mr. Bajic said, we all know, the DORH is a law enforcement body, it does not conduct criminal trials, it does not deal with detecting the perpetrator. This always falls within the order of the police, although mainly these anonymous reports, etc. We know how this goes all the way to that information girl, and that's not the same thing to play with. However, what I am interested in is why Mr. Puh left the County State Attorney's Office in Pula, and especially this activity of the DORH about the book of agricultural and forest land in favour of the Republic of Croatia, which is also mentioned on page 97 of this report. Namely, what's going on? I am sure that the book of the Republic of Croatia or this attempt to enroll the state on that Golden Cape in Rovinj, Punta roots to tell Rovinježi. To their park woods, islands, even cemeteries. One of the serious political issues. These properties until '91, until '92, were part of the community's then congregations. The state clearly centralized, nationalised, but the properties that were covered by the spatial plans of the then municipalities remained municipal, or cityal. So they stayed under allegations of possession, owned by the local self-government until this matter is now called for by the state's attorney's office for a ruling by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Okay, the state's attorney's office is gonna say so you, too, from the IDS, are in power, change the law. I agree, that's the point, but as long as it's done, it'll take a while, and if something becomes a state, then it's a matter of whether it'll ever bring back to those original owners or that local self-government. We're... something I, in 2000, managed to prevent one in the book of a large Croatian company, not to mention the name, the same over these properties. [[You don't understand.]] The county court then sided with local self-government. For 11 years, the municipalities, the towns of Istria, lived in the belief that it was theirs until this year 2012. Who then sided with this large Croatian company. I won't say, someone might think, a corrupt court, then a trade court, and so I say what kind of society such a policy, such a judiciary, etc. And you know what happens tomorrow, I'm 99% convinced of it, the state needs money, the state will, on the basis of these judgments and the property tomorrow, maybe sell to those to whom someone wanted to donate it in 2000 or 2001 through that work of a commercial court. You in the DORH, page 87, are also talking, giving opinions on agricultural, forest land, hunting, supervisory flats, the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is housing law, etc. Just a sentence to say in this tenant's law. Some people are in these apartments that they got in the '50s, '60s, so some of them live in 65, 60, 50 years. Right, someone's in '47, '48. Nationalized someone's property, it's a crime, but what to say for a little maybe more serious crime, for conversion, for a privatisation that entered into the Constitution itself, more specifically it doesn't get old. All those who have embarked on it, and have entered without a single kuna, have acquired something that has been created for decades, now the pillars of society, and no one on the left or on the right is reacting to it. It's called, okay, let it be called, it absolutely needs to be called Sanader for war profit, no one else. But isn't it all the ones from the '90s? Until '96. Let's say we privatized Croatia and a lot of other things have to be pillars of society. And so someone doesn't get me wrong, when I was in Sanader's face telling him what nobody's after this speaker, when others were putting their heads down, I have the right to just say today that probably for war profiting in this country, someone else should be prosecuted or prosecuted under quotes, and these people have the impression that no one just wants to touch. And I know that nothing will happen to them because, as I said, they are pillars of society and tomorrow they will all, especially when you need to hire a child, simply bow down because they won't have anywhere else to come to work. What's interesting for Istria is also this case... 2011 [[You don't understand.]] First, why the state of the church brought back something based on the optimal property, the 500 acres we know, it just wanted to get in touch, so the government wanted to get in touch with the church. Today, the state is asking for 500 million kunas from the Dajla parish to beat up some church claim from 250 million kuna. How can you give someone something 13 years ago and now ask for something to come back to you on that basis? It's just not normal. But it was also insane to return the optantic property, although church property should be pointed out, is not an optantic property because the Vatican was not at war with ex Yugoslavia, the friars had no property, they were not optanists, if they were or were fired from Yugoslav citizenship or simply fled. But I don't care about that either. Let the court in Strasbourg handle it. What will happen to those companies that bought agricultural land for some activities from the church in good faith for 15 euros. Now they're blocked, now they're doomed, and the owners are about to declare personal simply bankruptcy. What's just as interesting is on page 92. What Mr. Pupovac spoke of about the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for its behaviour when a member on our part, on the Croatian side, even though we all know that Croatia's insightful example of Milosevic's aggression simply without reason would blow someone's house down. Let me just say that on this side, we only have about 800 houses and basements in the area of Bjelovar, or whatever you say. We're gonna tell the Istrian tavern. They were all out of the war zone. And now those who were knocked down by the Storm 22,000 had them, clearly they should have the right to compensation, to rebuild, to compensation, and these in Bjelovar do not have the right to do so. So it's just not right and it needs to be changed, but I agree it's not up to the DORH. Finally, it is clear that this report should be supported by DORH, Mr Bajic. Mr. Bajic opened not one process, but something new. It needs to be closed something new and closed and its system, that it is also questioned in some cases and should be looked at when some state lawyers leave the DORH which objects are taken over, what kind of items are and what money is simply being turned here from Istria and beyond. And if DORH had acted like he has done in the last two or three years, maybe there would be no conversion, there might be no war crimes. If two thousand people had done so, there might not have been so much abuse of position, etc. etc. So what kind of society such a justice system is that of our institutions. And finally, something was started to say in Istria that some gave UskoKOK a statement to Hypo Banks, Kulterer and the team were all convicted. In Croatia we know terrible things have been happening. Now we have a Puris case, it's not a game. We all do, no one can believe what's going on out there. 305 people are now going home to put it that way. Co-operatives who are tied to Puris will end up as workers, even worse because they will lose their property they have acquired or inherited not for years, but for centuries. And indeed, I would like to see what can be done about this matter. I'm saying that in the context of this abuse of course, etc. Page 45 and so on. And for the end of the drug. We are in Istria in the infamous first place. We were hit hard by a young girl's case. In that case, I don't trust the police or the DORH. But no matter what, all in all this is a commendable report that needs to be supported and I think that such a conservative approach is a fourth, five times today I say we just keep it because no one has the right to play with people, and no state institutions, whatever they're called.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17083	Thank you very much. Two replicas reported to your presentation. The first is the replica of the respected representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17084	I thank you, Mr. President. Here's colleague Cain, you were talking about a book of forest and agricultural land. The report on page 97 shows that the different approach and the different criteria for registering agricultural land, or forest land, should be the same. Because the agricultural land register confirms that certain properties are in effect on the date of entry into force of the '91 Agricultural Land Act. the years were located outside the building land of the area is a fundamental assumption for the book. So that same rule doesn't apply in the passport above the entry of the forest and forest land, and it should be the same. So, the practice was until 2008, Mr. State Attorney to get the municipality or the city's confirmation in the competent office that a particular particle is located in the building zone. In this way, the local self-government unit had the same land. And unfortunately, today it is a practice through the State's Attorney's Office that the Republic of Croatia has registered on all the lands that were in the spatial plans of the former municipalities until '91. It has become the property of the Republic of Croatia and we are in charge. And I don't know if you're aware of what that means, since Croatia is entering the European Union next year. means, regardless of what units of local self-government have with certain projects to withdraw funds from structural and cohesion funds, we will not be able to do so since we do not have resolved property-legislative relations. So that's a fundamental assumption of withdrawing money. I don't know if you're aware of the situation we're in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17085	Thank you. Next replica and respected representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17086	Dear Mr. President, we tend to give a lot of this kind of flat rate, so one maybe intervention of what counterpart Cain said about the destruction of 22,000 houses during the Storm or after the Storm. There should at least stick to some factography when we talk about it, and the court also found in the case of first-degree rulings to generals Gotovina and Markac and Cermac that this is false information, that this information does not stand, because it is a report of 22000 supervised houses, not broken houses. Therefore, these flat rates simply do not have room.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17087	Thank you very much. And one notice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament at 11.06 p.m. The time has expired for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. The next debate and position of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament will be held by two respected representatives. First it's Vladimir Shakespeare and then Davor's Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17088	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Honorable Attorney General. The Croatian Parliament is today discussing the 2011 State's Attorney's Office Report. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I will say that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the 2011 State Attorney's Office Report. What is the purpose of this report and the purpose of this debate before the Croatian Parliament on this report? The report of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia shall be based on the provisions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Thus, according to the law, this report also refers to the state of play on the movement of reported crime in the previous year, to matters relating to the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, to legal issues in certain areas, to the review of the status of the staff, but the report warns of the state and operation of the legal system, the lack of legislation and gives an indication of statistical indicators showing data, inter alia, the success of the procedures for the Croatian Parliament to take a position on the situation and the movement of crime and the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, and thus to establish the obligations of competent ministries and other state bodies to improve the effectiveness of criminal prosecution and improvement and protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia. This comes from the Law on State Attorney's Office and that is the purpose, one of the main purposes of this report and the topic of debate in the Croatian Parliament. What are the reasons behind which the HDZ Representatives Club will support this report? It is the work of 33 municipalities, 15 county state attorneys, USKOK and the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, and not exclusively on the work of the DORH or the General State Attorney, although the Chief State Attorney also holds the highest responsibility for the work of all state attorneys as a whole. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this Report of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia for three groups of reasons. First of all, because of the successful and effective fight against corruption and organised crime, the DORH and the state's attorneys. On page 53 to 62 of this report, the work of the DORH and USKOK was processed on corruption and organised crime issues, which shows a very high degree of success in the fight against corruption and organised crime. The second group of reasons for which the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Croatian State Attorney's Office's report refers to the strong and committed direction of the State's Attorney's Office towards a society without corruption or to a zero rate towards corruption. True, it should also be said that, for the successful fight against corruption and organised crime, DORH has also received a very deadly tool, in the first part of the amendments to the Constitution, the last changes to the Constitution where it has been found that there is no obsolescence for converted, privatised crime and war profit. This was the Croatian Parliament of the amendments to the Constitution adopted almost consensually. And by doing so, the State's Attorney's Office has received a truly strong lever so that it can process and carry out this type of crime, except for war crimes, corruption, profit crime, converted, privatisation crime. USKOK received another powerful murder weapon, which is the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the procedure of confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal acts and offences. And this Code of Criminal Procedure is therefore the Croatian Parliament, as a whole, has also brought essentially one consensus where the DORH was given a very powerful tool and a powerful tool in the fight against corruption. Or this Act on the confiscation of property benefit acquired by the criminal acts proposed by the Government of President Kosor and with strong support from the MUP is therefore also one powerful weapon, which this Croatian Parliament also accepted as a whole, has received a killing tool in these 3 legal pillars to fight corruption. And the third group of reasons why the HDZ team will support this report is that the DORH has fulfilled all its obligations provided for by the Action Plan to tackle corruption and aimed at preventing and repressing corruption and which the National Anti-Corruption Council also adopted. Thus, the State Attorney's Office, which fulfilled all these anti-corruption measures in the action plan, gave one strong pain related to the opening and closure of Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. And in this way, the DORH studied the important political objective strongly, which is to make its significant contribution to Croatia's entry into full European Union membership. So these are the three groups of reasons why the HDZ Club holds that it should be supported and that it will support this report. Suggestions and suggestions. In terms of the processing of war crimes, we do not see from this report that some of the already known and head perpetrators of the most serious war crimes, both by command and by personal responsibility. Here is one banal example: the rocketling of the Banski dvora, as well as the Croatian Assembly on 7 October 1991, where two JNA aircraft, where the names of all those responsible from JNA's Air Force are known, to all in the command structure, to those performers from the pilot, to those of the rockets where they should be liquidated, decapitated by Croatian State leadership. Not only the President of the Republic, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, not only then the president of the SFRJ presidency, Stjepan Mesic, or the President of the Federal Executive Council of Ante Markovic, but the two missiles hit, and missed the target and hit the building, this building was a large number of representatives at clubs, it was part of the government, and it was one that took several missiles to decapitate the entire state leadership of the Republic of Croatia. Why, do you... This will probably be answered by the attorney general, why those who are under command, since this is clearly a war crime, are not being prosecuted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another form of what we point out is that there is no record of the processing of war crimes committed by rape of women, but also of men. Rapes committed in Serbian concentration camps, carried out in the area throughout Croatia, especially in Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, Vukovar, Osijek, in the area, including Banovina, or like those war crimes against the civilian population related to the killings of children, executed children. That still requires an answer, it still requires proper sanctions and processing. And third, on the responsibility of war crimes committed at the end and after the end of World War II. So, crimes from the period, maybe it's called very... The crimes of the Yugoslav communist regime, on page 38 of the report, are one piece of information that only one case is being investigated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I suppose that's the case of former Minister Bolkovec, but where the procedure was initiated, but where he stopped, there's still nothing. The requirements of justice are also that, in line with all the resolutions of this Croatian Parliament and of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, with all the problems and difficulties that follow the processing of these types of crimes, most of them more at the command of responsibility, it is also going towards a more decisive and faster solution. What the attorney general said in his report, and also here with oral reasoning, is a matter that concerns leaks of information. The Croatian Parliament, as well as the State's Attorney's Office, but also the Ministry of Justice really needs to deal seriously with this issue, because this is, what is happening in Croatia, to this extent leaks information from all secret investigations, it is not, it is a threat to fundamental human rights and it must be prevented. And finally in the end, surveillance of the operation of the DORH. DORH is independent and independent, according to the Croatian Constitution, the judicial body has the same rank as the judicial authority. But according to the Croatian Constitution under Article 4 of the Croatian Constitution, which speaks of the principle of division of power, the principle of government division includes mutual cooperation and mutual verification of authorities. One mechanism should be found to be that, in addition to what exists, that mechanism of subscribing criminal charges to find one supervision mechanism within the framework of the law and based on the law on the work of the state's attorney, not for reasons of being a supervisory authority but for respecting the constitutionality and legality of the State's attorney's work. In conclusion, the HDZ Representatives' Club gives full support to the work and report of the Croatian State Attorney's Office for 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17089	Thank you very much. I hope the HDZ Club has given up the flight change. No, I had a bad application then. Thank you very much. We move forward with a debate on behalf of the HNS club and respected representative Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17090	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Several observations related to the 2011 report on the work of state attorneys. We've been discussing this report this year that wasn't that long ago. In the HNS, too, we are pleased that this report for 2011 shows some resulting shifts in statistical terms anyway. So the results of the work in these numerical statements are definitely better than they were in 2010 and of course it gives hope that all those problems that unfortunately accumulated over the past two decades will be successfully solved through the rule of law. Some doubts were raised here about the independence and autonomy of the DORH or the judicial authorities. There is absolutely no doubt about this CNS, and we are standing in the view that all three authorities are autonomous, independent, and as far as the judiciary is concerned, we are definitely at the point of view that the policy of the fingers in that part of the government must not have. However, today when we talk about this subject, I don't think we can talk about how politics can be cut off or not wanting to notice the overall action of this segment of justice, simply go over some of the things that I would like to say to every story on the branch of the Republic of Croatia known, that our citizens read through the media and on what grounds courts, perceptions are made, which we like to say to politicians about how some institutions work. Namely, our mission of this Croatian Parliament is precisely to warn in this annual report about the state and functioning of the legal system, the lack of legislation, as well as the internal business of the State's Attorney's Office, and also to make proposals for improving the work of the State's Attorney's Office. The 2011 report contains an overview of the situation in all areas and is very extensive and high-quality, as well as a review of the work of all state attorneys, statistics, indicators of success on state-of-the-art procedures, because only on the basis of one such comprehensive report can this Croatian Parliament assess the need for a busy position in relation to the state of and the movement of crime and the protection of property interests, and could also identify some of the priorities of solving some of the problems that can be read from this report. I say it's our duty to speak and I think it's our responsibility and that the only benefit of the State's Attorney General and the attorney general is that we here talk critically about the problems. Now to praise here, and we can and will commend a good part of the indicator within which the work and obligations and responsibilities of the State's attorney's office are moving, however, to point out what the problem is. This report and similar reports, and especially this report on the work of state attorneys, is very often used here in me, I would say for political purposes, and it is not the intention of the CNS to place itself according to this report, but we want to talk freely and openly about everything we think is a failure. We believe that this institution is extremely important, and we also believe that Mr. Chief State Attorney is an alpha and omega of that institution. He represents it with the widest possible powers that the law has given him and we think that this institution and the gentleman who runs the institution must be credible and that this institution must have the dignity of a very high degree. We believe that each profession has its own rules and that each profession is required to respect those rules. Since it is a specific profession, and here we consider the specific task of the State's Attorney's Office to be a model, and, of course, the attorney general should be an example of the role models in this profession. It's not wanted and we're not asking at the HNS that state's attorneys and Mr. Attorney General be neither saint nor saint, but neither are they gods. All we're asking is that we operate on the highest standards of profession and duty that you have. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about this because, now I'm going to say again, the general perception of the public, even though it may be so overstated, is that it's not like that. Unfortunately, among these reports, the most common information about the work of the State's Attorney's Office comes through the media and through messages that come from the attorney general. In HNS, we do not imagine the chief state attorney as some popular person who exchanges text, responding to the accusations of some very important defendants in five minutes' shows, but we expect a very serious approach to all this. We imagine a state's attorney as, don't get it wrong, but as a lone wolf, as one person who's uncompromising, which is also effective, which is in some way inaccessible. We think only such a person can meet these standards of the profession we're talking about. We, in a way, happened, I'm not going to say that it's the sole guilt of the person who runs Mr. Bajic's state's attorney, we created something out of this profession to wipe the floor with. The question arises whether we as a Parliament must ask whether we are wrong, or whether the DORH is wrong. Is the communication that we have introduced or which has usually created this poor perception and whether it is necessary to change it urgently, which does not mean that Mr. Bajic needs to be changed, but a way of communication needs to be changed. Why is that necessary? We are in this transition as well as most countries in transition are burdened with corruption and that is something that is good that we have opened up and it has been a good way of going into account because we are going to have a very difficult time, and we see from the last monitoring which unfortunately Mr. lawyer has failed to tell us about because there has been no time anymore, there will be a very important point of justice and, of course, the functioning of the state's attorneyship in the picture of Croatia and in the picture of how we are fighting this evil because in these comments we have already started to connect with some Romanian who failed, Bulgaria who has failed and what is now some Croatia in this society that is questioning whether it will succeed. We need to make it clear that we want to succeed, and we can only prove it by one serious act. It seems to us in the HNS that we have little standards of communication with the public and what we can then expect from those who look at us from the outside, unfortunately broke down and unfortunately it's not good. And secondly, you yourself mentioned leaking information about processes as a major problem. You also said that DORH is not a source, or that you are not a source, but that's about all you've said about it and that's not enough. So someone said it was, and you said it wasn't, and you're a lawyer, so you know that doesn't exactly hold water. So we think in HNS you need to clear that story up. You need to clean up the story inside the DORH, meaning the move in that house of yours. There's been a timely and ordered investigation into how and what leaks information from DORH, what happened to that investigation, maybe we could tell us here in your address after the clubs and find out what's going on with it. Clear that story. You can't work with the Stigm that journalists are publishing you all kinds of text messages, that they connect you to any encounters with any incriminating persons, etc., etc. It's something that's totally unacceptable to HNS. It's unacceptable first and foremost for you, and then for us here in the Parliament, certainly, for our society and for our country. So our message is somewhere in the end, to investigate, explore yourself. Find out what's going on! We believe you are not, but we are only at the level to trust you. You must show the public that what is connected to the DORH is not true, because it is the only way to restore the reputation and dignity of that institution. The Croatian People's Party will support this report because this report speaks of shifts, a great deal of efforts by a large number of people talking about it, a colleague from the SDP. This job is not easy to do, and it is not easy to assume and responsibilities and we will always support you in all these efforts to reduce and criminality and to process as efficiently as possible, as quickly and of course as possible and would agree with this because it is good to be very careful in this, not to rush into proceedings without quality evidence or belief that the evidence is correct and that it will be able to prove itself in court. We'll back it up. However, I say you must work to restore your personal reputation, and then, of course, see the entire institution towards the public, not only to the Croatian but also to the general public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17091	Thank you. So we've exhausted the debate by the clubs, and we're going to the individual debate accordingly. The first registered representative, Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17092	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I will say that I will support this 2011 State Attorney's Office Report for the Republic of Croatia, and I ask Mr. State's Attorney to take the remarks and remarks from my today's debate as an incentive for further work and as recommendations in this year's work so that the report will be something better next year. This is the moment in the Croatian Parliament when before the body of the legislative authority comes the State's Attorney's report is always let's say a little awkward, because the State's Attorney's Office is as an independent institution, as an independent body that implements, i.e. which participates in criminal proceedings and in the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, it must be independent of both the executive and the judicial authority. But on the basis of a legal obligation, it's before us today. The DORH report, which is mainly with the usual difficulties, challenges in the work of the DORH from previous years that we have had opportunities to read in previous years' reports, has marked a new one since last year, and this is the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act. It was also quite clear in the profession and in the public opinion that the DORH would either bow down or marry the laurels by establishing and adopting an acoustic principle in the process. So either it works or it doesn't work, the third one's gone. So, after the police, the State Attorney's Office and the Court of Justice in one Inquisitor and in one such case let's say a very fixed and domestic procedure, after they had dealt with crime in criminal proceedings in the new criminal proceedings, things changed significantly. You also mentioned in the report as one of the lacks of a new CAP the problem of disclosing the confidentiality of the procedure, because parties in the process that have the right to see the file are dealing and data to journalists, and then it is almost impossible to determine who the source of the information is. As a need, you also call for the return of a criminal offence to publish classified information from the criminal proceedings. I have to say, we've faced data leaks before. However, we now have a completely new approach, a completely new role, and thus the defence powers, the prosecutor's powers and the court's powers. And I can agree that it's very difficult with media that have no obligation to give out their sources that gave them the data, that it's hard to determine who released the information. In this way, the person who released the classified information from the investigation into the public has threatened the conduct of the criminal proceedings if, by no other means, the impartiality of the court and the threat of the principle of free assessment of evidence. If this problem is escalating, unless this problem is solved, I think we'll deal with the Krimilix problem after Wikileax. So I especially note this because largely in cases of leaks of data from secret investigations it is about procedures for which the Croatian public is very interested. If we consider the processing of data from the investigation to be a violation of the provisions of criminal proceedings, then that breach is bilateral. On the one hand, the media is publishing them, and on the other hand you have parties in the process that have the right to see the file and to give that information to the media. They're particularly dangerous, I mean the smallest forms I'm assuming there are those that aren't free, but a charge shop. I must also express my concern that if this problem does not end, it will seriously endanger the role of the D.O.R.H. as the holder of the criminal proceedings by the prosecutor. Furthermore, let me also look back at the personnel structure and the problems listed in the report last year. In one case, they can agree with Mr. Chief State Attorney, which is that despite the reduction in the number of state attorneys that followed the rationalisation of the State Attorney's Office and the rationalisation of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia and the increase in the number of officials and officials in the DORH in the past year for almost 200 people, personnel equipment is not satisfactory, but this is not the consequence of the figure. From year to year, the DORH lacks professional staff who will be able to deal with the processes of greater complexity, and therefore more responsibility. What's the reason for that? The reason for this may also be insufficient commitment to staff issues in the preparation process for the new CAP because it is known that such errors in human preparation do not immediately come at a certain time-out. So, insufficient personnel capacity can cause how I see problems in two directions. State lawyers and their deputies, those who are professionally trained, those who are able to take the lead in the process in important criminal proceedings spend most of their energy on the conduct of such procedures. It is then a question for them in such proceedings whether they will be skilled enough to carry out the procedure until the end because such complex actions are a challenge for each party in the process, both for the defence and for the DORH, and in the extreme case and for the court itself. For those less important, let’s say daily crimes, or daily criminal acts, they will logically hire their advisers, their trainers, and other persons who can participate in the conduct of investigations or demonstrations due to lack of time. If these people really don't rule matter, they won't be able to fulfill their task and they won't be able to give a proper order to a police officer that needs to be executed and there is a great danger here for the very outcome of the criminal proceedings. So two places. I think when the new CAP was brought in, it was quite clear that the DORH was given powers that had not existed in the Croatian criminal proceedings. Therefore, there was a legitimate concern that the DORH would not be able to deal with the powers conferred upon it by law. I would describe it as a danger that you would give someone who has so far been involved in the shooting of clay pigeons heavy footarms and send them into battle. Did this happen and will this happen in the application of the new CAP? I hope not. So, what I'm saying is that when we talk about human resources, it's your job to make the State's Attorney General attractive to a young and quality generation, to professional people who will be willing to face the challenges and pressures that this job carries. I'm talking about both new generations and existing officials, or officials in the State's Attorney's Office, who have to be constantly perfected and specialized in order to always be prepared for that. When we talk about the need to apply a plea agreement and other alternative ways of shortening the procedure, I remind you that, as with the application of the principle of purpose, there should always be a strong foothold and firm assumptions in the law for such decisions. This is a very slippery area and it would not be good if it were to go to the heart of the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings, i.e. the effective processing of the perpetrator of criminal offences. If we're talking about ourselves again, I'm going to only comment briefly now because I see that I don't have time anymore, I can also mention the increase in criminal charges against legal persons compared to 2009, which I was particularly interested in because it was an increase of as much as 32%. In the case of criminal charges against minors and minors, we have already had a few years of increase in the number of criminal charges. Usually this is about criminal acts of drug abuse and property delinquents, but I hope that new legal solutions announced... may change some of that figure in this statistics. So, in the structure of all the applications, to finish, there's been a change of venue, firstly we have a 57% against property, and the second place has taken up the abuse of drugs that replaced the place with former crimes against human and citizen rights. However, all due to the decline of criminal charges
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17093	That's where we're gonna have to finish your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17094	All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17095	Thank you. Wesna Fabiančić-Križanić, a respected representative, is on the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State's Attorney. In this report, very comprehensive statistical indicators are given to assess the state and movement of crime, its risks to society as a whole and the quality of protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia by the State's attorney, of course as a legal representative. In the work on criminal cases, the State's Attorney's Office has maintained the level of urgency achieved and I certainly support it. It is also evident that the rationalisation of the network of municipal state attorneys was necessary because, without this rationalisation with the existing number of deputies, which has been slightly increased by state attorneys, they could not respond to all the tasks and to all the jobs under the new Criminal Procedure Act. The report shows that the State's Attorney's Office has been up to date in the last six years, which of course stems primarily from statistical indicators that the percentage of unsolved cases in which the results are still ongoing or only 14.6% of the total number of cases in the work is sought. That success in criminal cases is 87.3% which is good, and as regards civil administrative cases, the expected results are not achieved specifically as regards the number of deals and agreements concluded in 2011. So, globally, I'm going to support this report because of the general characteristics and general picture of the up-to-dateness, and the success in criminal cases in general. However, I cannot say that I am satisfied with everything, because although the report as such does not deal with individual subjects I will mention some in the context of the assessments given in this report and from which examples it will be visible. It will be evident that such an assessment of them simply cannot be applied. You say in your report, on page 47, that it is unquestionable that crimes are related to abuse before and in bankruptcy proceedings, particularly difficult and that they have a significant impact on the situation in the economy. And I agree with that grade of yours absolutely and completely. But that's exactly why I can't answer why there's no reaction from the state's attorney's office to loose criminal charges in as many as 8 cases that have been committed, I dare say and use the expression of the axle, Željko Žužić customer, Marinko Pajic bankruptcy managers and Hypo bank lender. It is about 8 bankruptcys that have exactly the same way ended, which were shown by the moss in a way as if the guessing of a truly bankrupt customer manager had been. I'm in some of my earlier discussions, and now I'm going back to bankruptcy. I have personal knowledge because I was a member of the Committee of Believers, when the contest was announced without the knowledge of the Committee of the Prophets, when the Committee of the Prophets decided to cancel the tender and the bankruptcy manager, despite the decision of the Committee of the Prophets, introduced the property of the buyer Solidum Žužic. When, due to all the pressures that were in the media seven years ago, the bankruptcy administrator resigned and resolved the bankruptcy judge, however, today after 7 years there is no epilogue related to the bankruptcy. Although the property, of course, that Željko Žužic entered after the bankruptcy, also resulted in new criminal charges related to the exploitation of mineral raw materials, as it emerged from the gauge of the exploitation field and even a general dangerous action threatened the purifier in the town of Velika Gorica, even the criminal application was not processed. And it's certainly something that we're going to find hard to convince ourselves, and the public that, let's just say these facts that I mentioned, about the exploitation of mineral raw materials, that it's hard to prove because with a simple eye it's visible that it has come out of all the limits of the exploitation field. I'm also not satisfied with any crimes against official duty. You also say in your report that the procedures for these crimes, especially if they are complex, take a long time. As in previous years, success in the process is somewhat lower than the average, and the main cause of less success is the complexity of factual proof of these crimes. As I was a member of the Committee of Believers in this previous case, I was also the secretary of the Committee for the Review of the Correction of Spatial Plans in the City of Zagreb 2 years ago when one movement of feathers changed even in individual cases about 300 parts of various spatial plans. As much as possible, as low as possible. Two years ago, the City Assembly filed a criminal complaint because the official person, instead of all these changes, went into normal legal procedure to amend and supplement with the previous public debate, the correction of the secretary of the then assembly, was corrected in a way that the economy, the social zone, was re-scheduled into economics. All the streets disappeared, infrastructure facilities, and even urban inspection more than a year ago, decidedly stated what could be considered an absolutely professional opinion on it. So, that the commission did not work in any political direction. That out of these three hundred corrections, only 5.6 were really corrections, and that everything else was actually changes and additions that didn't go through the regular procedure. The criminal application was now signed by the late President of the Parliament, Boris Šprem, and then the president of the city's assembly, the City of Zagreb. We've been informed a few times whether it's going anywhere with that procedure or not, some of the reconnaissances have been done, but here's a full two years, nothing has happened. So, I mentioned these individual cases because they have caused far-reaching consequences on society as a whole, cases that are not the only ones giving the picture that some are more equal or support the suspicion of a particular selectivity. This should certainly be avoided, so we ask that this debate of mine be discussed in that direction and understand. It should be avoided in the continued conduct of the State's Attorney's Office, and these examples will be less social and economical society that we build. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17097	Thank you. Now he will speak to his esteemed colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17098	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, I guess this debate of mine will be full of questionnaires and misunderstandings and maybe some delusions. I don't understand when I read the report whether the most important report is the influence of Mr. Chief State Attorney Mladen Bajic on this report. It is certainly not easy for me to figure out the role of Mr Mladen Bajic in the Croatian judiciary, I have simply tried to talk to many and fellow parliamentary representatives and many who are not in the Assembly to figure out what Mladen Bajic really means and does. So Mr. Mladen Bajic is for my little bit of enigma, but to me, an even bigger enigma than Mr. Mladen Bajic is the attitude of every authority towards Mr. Mladen Bajic. Let's say when SDP was in position then he was critical of Mr. Mladen Bajic, when the authorities of these criticisms were far less. We heard it here at the assembly in the last meeting, it seems to me that it was in the past meeting of one of the SDP colleagues, the current minister, Mladen Bajic, called Bajic, because he holds many cases in the drawer. Now suddenly over the night when the government changed now it's moving Bajic everything is moving. I have two key points in which, as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I have tried to follow the work of two points of Mr. Mladen Bajic and his role in Croatian law enforcement, this is the case of Bezovica, which we remember well and one case that is actually symptomatic. That's the Drmic case in the HDZ sometimes now in the HDSSB. We remember well that in 2006 Mr. Drmic publicly admitted that he had been stealing votes for Mr. Ivo Sanader at the HDZ meeting in 2002. The strangely Croatian public reacted to it as if someone had said 15 minutes ago it was raining and then the other instantaneous hand said, so what if it was raining. Mr Ivo Sanader and Mr Branimir Glavas' confession means he was elected instead of the HDZ president with stolen votes. What does that mean again? That means Mr. Ivo Sanader became Prime Minister by stealing votes, nothing else. Has there ever been any debate, any investigation of what we've said? After what happened, everything was allowed, and in particular everything was allowed after Mr. Drmić's testimony and after Mr. Glavas' testimony, everything was allowed in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular everything was allowed to Mr. Ivo Sanader. As a result of his passing through his fingers, that no one asked for a serious investigation or even the initiation of proceedings based on this investigation, I think it resulted in a moral breakdown, and then crime. When it comes to discussing Mr. Mladen Bajic, who is certainly a capable man because being in this responsible position so long can't be done by anyone, I don't know if he's part of a political establishment or a judicial one? I often see that he's more in politics than he is in justice. We saw this from some reports we learned through wikipedia, we saw relations to foreign embassies, and we saw Mr. Mladen Bajic's relations with certain powerful people in politics and in Croatian society. It's simply incomprehensible to me when I see my colleague Dusan Miljuš or another colleague as he no longer lives in Zagreb, now he's a spokeswoman, walking with two police officers because he's being guarded, and he's being guarded because he's probably touched by a criminal oatmeal. However, Mr. Mladen Bajić is glad that I am glad that Zagreb is such a safe city, walking freely, he is not touched by anything. Did he really shut down those who need to be locked up, so he's so calm and free, I repeat, that I'm glad. I spoke as chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I held several meetings, agreements, conversations with the people following the HRT, and I'm among other officers who asked me a question or I asked them, and I asked for a good example one former minister of the Programme Council at HRT in an informal conversation, so I don't mention his name to me, I asked him how much to steal on HRT money, he said about 300 million is some average yearly, in various ways. In the newspaper here in the Parliament, journalists witnessed malversions at the fiscalization of HRT. That's why they were punished in their home. So they were saying, they're willing to talk. When I asked some police officers why nothing is being processed or should be prosecuted by those who claim to have a thief, so it means falsely alarming the Croatian public, they told me we are investigating, it ends up in the DORH drawer and it doesn't touch. Do I, I argue, not because I am afraid, but it is incomprehensible to me that many processes, let's say Croatian highways, from... construction further, than that we have repeated here dozens of times, especially on this right side of this menu that Croatian highways, construction of Croatian highways has been produced three times. We are saying that the biggest crime is happening in the Croatian highways, but if anything happened to anyone, is there something in the drawers. I would ask the respected Mr. Bajic to tell us what he's holding in those drawers or he's not holding on or we're buying some stories that don't drink water, which are simply a lie and which are false. Is there a crime on HRT or are criminals who claim that there is a crime because they want to bring down honest people,...we needed those testimonies. We should have some answers, normally not concrete investigations, and you certainly won't talk about it. I'm really interested in the second report that if it were to have as little enigma as possible, not to look like a questionnaire, a man asking questions rather than to get answers from Mr. Bajic today. Finally, this report, as well as all other reports I spoke about either in an individual debate or in a debate on behalf of the club, can be mere statistics that do not reflect the real situation in Croatian society. This is one of the most important reports because we know well that it wasn't just me who established it, but a thousand times he claimed that not only was organised crime, that they had immorally taken over the leadership of this country and that they had all the processes and all the flows of those most influences, that criminals in Croatia had their own country. Is that the wrong impression of us and just some of us? And once again, I am very concerned that the relationship to this very painful topic is changing depending on whether you are in position or in opposition. Looks like I'm gonna have to experience whether that's how it is in other elections and being a part of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17099	Thank you. We have a single replica of the respected Dinko Buric on this exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17100	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to add a little bit to what you said about Mr. Drmic's statement. Yes, it is true, but it is exactly the same that we invited Mr. Bajic to respond to that statement, but at the time today's chief state attorney was the servant of then Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and he disobeyed our request.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17101	Replication response, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17102	My colleague Buric, in this whole story, is actually confused by one thought, I'm actually unhappy because I don't know if I live in a country where man ruled for six years, and we know how he ruled, and he didn't have a basis for it, that he was simply not elected even as party president, and based on that election he couldn't be elected prime minister later. The history of Croatia would have been quite different. This is not a harmless question, this is a question and the answer to that question is the answer to all the answers. Are we going to allow tomorrow and shake hands on some or even indications? How will politics be credible, how will we Parliamentarians be credible if we don't know the answers to these questions, if they don't tell us what happened and once they shut our mouths not to talk about it, it's gone unrefundable. We've lost the people's trust because of it, the politicians are at the bottom. If someone wants us to be at the bottom, I don't want to because I'm not part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17103	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Boris Blazekovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Dear Representative Joseph Kregar. He's not here either, and he's losing that right. Honorable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State's attorney. I'll look back on only one segment in my debate, and I'll look at the structure of juvenile crime. According to data in Croatia, in fact, minors commit about 4500 crimes every year, and this report shows that in 2011, the proportion of juvenile crime is somewhere around 7.6% You have also highlighted negative movements or increased number of reports, an increased number of crimes, and those crimes in connection with intoxicating drugs, which is actually worrying because it is growing in the last three years, and it is also increasing crimes in connection with property. As a society, we have to ask ourselves, "Why is that?" We're very often shocked by some kind of criminal act, shocked by violence. Of course, however, we can expect such increases in the crisis. However, we must be very aware of them. When solving a problem with a minor, I think it's very important that two things in the first place are a spot reaction, or I'm interested in whether you have any information at all how long it is, how long it's been since the application to some decision. I think it's particularly important for a minor because we stress the educational component that this time is very important. Another thing that is very important in working with minors, or since making decisions, is cooperation with welfare centres, or all those other institutions involved in the care of minors. So, in criminality, or the crime of minors, it's not just the gravity of the work, it's exactly how the family works, how the miles where these young offenders are located. Who better to get the data from than the welfare center? And that's why I stress this second component very, very important. The minors are of great importance to them, of course, a parenting measure, not a punishment, because only educational measures can alter their bad habits. You also mentioned that state's attorneys have their own youth counselors. However, I wonder if these youth counselors or your deputies, they have a 10% stake in juvenile crime and the rest for adults. I think there's always minors on the other side. It is important that, precisely because of the specificity of juvenile crime, that is, that age, and that is, our goal is to help, or to raise, rather than punish. It is also important that education, or additional communication skills known in psychology, from psychopathology, actually be dealt with by your employees with the problem they are working with. Let us not forget that they are often in contact with the masters of communication manipulation. That's exactly why I'm advocating additional doseductions. Because very often wrong estimates can be mistakes, wrong assessment can lead to wrong decisions. There's one more thing about rejection when we talk about minors. I think it's very important that the relationship between the opportunity and the opportunity is not greater on the side of rejection. It may be odd what I'm saying right now, but I'm thinking that we should always react either by warning or by some kind of action that we should do. Because in that case, if our rejection is very large, I feel like we're giving up the right to help these young people. That's exactly what I'm saying because of the data on the relapse that's high, which is 47.3%. I wonder what the share of those we rejected is then, that is, can be seen and whether the system is in order. We've seen from the media that we have minors, say, 17 years of data, and there are 263 criminal records. Then he was, and then we have a 13-year-old with a thick record, a 17-year-old with a thick record, a 17-year-old who has 100 works that he started doing when he was 9, 11, 12. So it's a multi-retreaders that actually the system is very, very powerless. Very often, child psychiatrists say that it is easier to diagnose the problem and that it is much, much harder to solve it. However, the shift is that we have both child and adolescent psychiatrists in this area. So we have a profession that can help. The data of 4.7.47.3% of minors who have previously reported themselves gives us a signal, gives us actually a questionnaire on whether our approaches so far as juvenile crime is concerned are effective. And for the end, I'll accept the report. However, as far as the State's Attorney's Office is concerned, I am of the opinion that there should be a team of professional people, that there should be good cooperation with other institutions, and a great contribution is made by professional lawyers. And I'm wondering, Mr. State's Attorney, if all state's attorneys have any expert associates that are very important for contacts with other institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17105	Thank you very much. We have a single replica registered, respected representative of Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members, I agree with you as far as minors are concerned, because we know that delinquency is growing. We know there's not much work to be done. I think the Ministry of Education and Education should work very hard on it, but they should be connected to the DORH, to the police, to psychologists and parents. Because if that bread is interrupted anywhere, then the children continue on their own, and as you said yourself, they know how to manipulate very well. Unfortunately, parents complain that DORH is inaccessible, that many times no one appears, that they are unworthy, and that they are biased. Because when you have two children who have committed the same crime or the same crime one child is released, the other child is convicted. I mean, that's what parents see, that class sees and that's what their peers see, and then of course they're looking for some kind of gaps in the law and they see that the way you behave doesn't guarantee that you won't be convicted or that you'll be convicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17107	Replica response, colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Rose you're right, I think we share the same opinion that in the juvenile delinquency of any kind we must actually fight all together. Of course, parents need great support, and they need great support, but parents also need to understand their great responsibility and to cooperate with all other institutions. You mentioned the Ministry of Education and Education, you know that this year we introduced health care as part of prevention. It is very much invested in preventive programs. I think that there should be a structure here, and precisely because of the need for structure, it's good that we've introduced health education as it is now being introduced into schools. Therefore, without all the factors involved in any education and education, working with children, we will not be able to prevent the crime that is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17109	Thank you. A respected colleague, Ivan Shantek, also applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. Here I want to talk about one very painful situation for me here today, and also for the people especially the town of Gline, and especially places such as Gornja and Donja Jama, Glinsko new village, Jojevica etc. Namely, several days ago, residents of the town of Donja Cave near Glina raised the memory of the chapel of 16 of their locals who were killed and their bodies were not found in 1991. What was particularly painful for all of us to see that the chapel was placed on that memorial by pictures of three children who were mostly between 10 and 13 years of age. I'm a resident of Gline, I was born there, I grew up and I lived the day today, and unfortunately I knew, I knew those kids personally. And I feel a moral obligation today and their tragic fates to bring here before the Croatian Parliament and to suggest and a certain conclusion that I hope all colleagues will accept because this is something that goes beyond anything that concerns parties and foreigners, this is about a deep humanitarian issue, which is justice for murdered children. These examples I'm going to read here today are not examples of children being killed by shelling, but examples of children being shot freely. So these children saw their murderers, those children were killed with their families and those children, if they deserve justice, deserve justice from this Croatian state. Darko Dvornekovic, born 9.02.'81. 10 years old, killed 11.12.91. years in the village of Gornja Jama near Glina unknown place of burial. Nikolina Fabac, born 28.12.'81. 10 years old, murdered 11.12.91. years of mass crime in the village of Gornja Cave. Also her sister, Željka Fabac, born 25.09.'76. A year old, 15 years old. Ana-Marija Grgic, born 30.05.'88. year, killed 19.03.'93. 5 years old in a family house in Novska in a diversant action of Serbian terrorists along with Brother Ivan born 8/03'79. For years, so 14 years old, you and your father and your mother. Dario Juric of Father Zlatko, born in 1987, 4 years old, killed 15.11.91. year with Brother Tomislav, born in 1989, 2 years old and Mother Vera and other residents in the city... in a mass crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Father Zlatko reported a crime in the so-called. Public Security station in Kostajnica. After that, he was killed, an unknown burial site. Alen Kozbasic of Father Milan, born in '83. The year, 9 years old, killed 4.11.91. the year on the ground floor of the family house in Petrinja while Father Milan, mother of Gordan and sister Tamara were born in '78. 13 years old, killed on the same day in the attic of the house. It is clear from this that the family hid, that the child tried to escape, that someone caught up with him and killed him at the door of the house. Josipa Kožić, 16 years old, was killed in the village of Gornja Drenčina in the summer of '91. The year, and her sister, Snježana Kožić, was wounded. Katica Simanovic of Father Ivan, born 3.02.'76. 15 years old, murdered 3.10.91. the year in Glinsko new village along with her parents and grandfather and other residents, the unknown place of burial of her and the other 31 members of her family. That's the family I can tell you here only my brother survived. I knew that family. Paul Shiftar, born in '76. 15 years old, killed 16.12.91. years in Yosevica near Glina. Luka Šiftar, 20 years old, Ljubica Šiftar, 19 years old, was killed in a mass crime in Yosevica, where 21 others were killed. As well as Katarina Škrinjar, 20 years old, was killed on the home doorstep in Yosevica. Zrinka Gmaz, 19, 16.07.2013. A year killed in a terrorist incursion from an occupied area while a 16-year-old and friends bathed in the river Buying in front of their house in Stara Drenčina. Domagoj Gmaz was badly wounded, barely survived, and so was his cousin Igor Karaul. Here's how terrible that was. I'm going to quote you just a piece of the report on the defendant's interrogation that was made on 21.05.'92. the year at the High Judge of the District Court in Glina in a criminal case against Borojevic Steve for the crime of murder in Article 47. The penal law of Serbia, therefore, is their document. Where he says, "When we came down to the village we found our fighters who entered the village before us. A fighter came to me and said there was a younger woman with two children and two older ones in one house. We got together at that house and I saw the whole family sitting on the bed, they were scared, the young woman was shaking, she was crying, and there were two kids, two and four years old. We returned from action about 13 o'clock that day, and the next day, the family came back dead, and who did it, by whose order I don't know. I later heard that the husband of that woman and the father of those children had come to the police station in Costa Rica and reported that his whole family and his parents had been killed in the village. And I heard that man was completely mentally lost.", finished quote. Here, ladies and gentlemen, that's what it is, that's your Banovina in 1991. What's a tragedy is that no one is charged with it, let alone convicted. And I really appeal to you once again, and let that be an incentive to the attorney general, let us adopt this conclusion that I have proposed, and the bottom line is that the attorney general will report to us within 60 days what he has done in this regard. These are murdered children, this is our future killed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17111	In this debate and these earthquake facts, we have one replica. Advocacy Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So let me, in my replica, join this one of yours, I would say to the tragic and sad, in a sad debate, and I will begin the replica of a quote from the Sun and ask: "Dear our representatives of the state, judicial and executive authorities, may the dear God always remind you of the wife of the sacrifice of war, unacknowledged, unprotected, belittled, ridiculed, abandoned because it is part of us and you. And you, even though you are able to help them, do nothing to make them happy or help them for the better tomorrow. The closure of people, women and children in camps, rape, is the greatest crime against humanity, and every camper killed or survived the greatest human sacrifice, but the indictment of modern civilization.". They're asking all these victims what we did to help them? Is it really impossible to punish a crime, did all those statements that were the victims, about 1700 of them so far, have made statements, stayed in someone's drawers? Although most victims remembered the name of their martyrs, many of whom were their acquaintances and neighbors, the processes did not start at all. When will the processes start? The victims were also with President Josipovic, he promised and sent to the DORH what happened, is that still in the drawers? I read this sun from time to time and here's the chief state attorney, Mr. Bajic, try to figure out what and what kind of victim it is? And answer, behold, if you will be manifested, where did this come from, for all these women of war victims are really interested in your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17113	The replica matches a colleague named Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17114	Thank you. Here, dear fellow I said that I was really focused on what's most painful, the most painful children shot. We might as well expand. 348 people were killed in 35 places of the then municipality of Glin, no one was processed. So if there's anything more tragic, I'll read one name again, and that's the other extreme of Panezic Jaga, born 24.06.1899, exhumed 09.07.1996. A murdered person born in the 19th century, no one was punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17115	We're continuing an individual debate. I give my word to the honourable representative, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General. I will discuss the report by the attorney general or the state's attorney's office in 2011. Of course, from the perspective of the then Prime Minister, as 2011 was the key year in which Croatia ended the negotiations. It was the year in which, let's remember still in the spring, still in April of that year, it was not certain whether Croatia would finish negotiations or stay somewhere on the secondary track. I mention this because one of the key places in the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union and one of the most difficult ones, if not the most difficult chapter, given the number of conditions we had to meet in order to open the chapter, but also the number of conditions that we had to meet in order to close the chapter, were indeed one huge job in which the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia made its big and important contribution. A great and important contribution in view of all the assignments we had to carry out. And I remind you, Chapter 23 was not only a fight against corruption, the fight against organised crime, the fight against crime in general, but certainly a trial for war crimes. So many of the conditions that we have had to meet in this regard, i.e. to answer questions in this regard to the European Commission. Because we are the only country in its course of accession with everything else that we had as a really great task, 35 chapters, so far the most standard for opening and closing, but we were also the state that negotiated with the severe legacy of aggression on the Republic of Croatia after the Homeland War. And certainly part of that chapter was that of meeting the criteria was the functioning of the Croatian judiciary. That's why I think it's really the State's Attorney's Office in its work, coordinating but only in the sense that we're all together no matter how independent we are, no matter how independent the institution is, and then the institutions like the State's Attorney's Office are of interest, or the most important and most important interests of the Republic of Croatia, so in that sense, just coordinating all those jobs that were important I repeat for opening and closing Chapter 23. We are in the government since, of course, the government had to do most of that work that was related to both the reports and the kind of coordination we also agreed with the representatives of the State's Attorney's Office, the Supreme Court, the State's Attorney's Council, the State Judicial Council, the competent ministries to maintain our own coordination with this relationship and that we're talking about the Government that I headed the decision on so-called. We agreed then that at the head of this committee I would be the Prime Minister of the Government, but at these meetings, which we co-ordinated the work on meeting obligations related to Chapter 23, we also called on representatives of the State Attorney's Office, the Supreme Court and all independent bodies, which, in particular, we all together here in the Croatian Parliament, strengthened independence by the amendments to the Constitution in 2010. I would like to remind you that these amendments have further strengthened the independence of both the State and the Judicial Council and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. I also mention this today because recently on a television show Mr Ivo Sanader said about a meeting in the government on 4 January 2010 he pointed out the arrival of a top state attorney in the government as an argument that in his case it was political persecution. I made it very clear, and I repeat it today in the assembly as today's parliamentary representative, it was a pre-arranged meeting and a meeting about chapter 23 because I remind you at that time one of the great jobs, one of the great burdens I'm going to use was the search for so-called. In accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission concluded that, in the light of the above, the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, A meeting in the government was attended in front of the cameras in front of numerous journalists alongside Mr. Karamarko, who was also invited as the minister of the MUP. And that's the only truth about that case. When we talk about political persecution, I have to refer to it today, and here from this position of parliamentary representative, then Prime Minister, I would like to remind you that Ivo Sanader activated his parliamentary mandate in 2010, remember these times. It was just kind of a time that it coincided not to say that any causal-consequential reason whatsoever or that there was a causal-consequential relationship in that, the SDP submitted a request for my shift as Prime Minister. So Mr. Sanader was a representative, and then he could talk about political persecution behind this pay phone, and it seems to me that it was time and when the attorney general filed a report on the work for the previous year. So where would this be a better place than right here in this assembly to talk about investigations, then still about investigations conducted by the State's Attorney's Office than here if anyone else had any kind of political persecution. What I can argue is that speaking first of all about the time I was at the head of the executive authority that there was never at any time any political pressure on Mr. Bajic, nor on Mr. Cvitan, therefore on the State's Attorney's Office to start an investigation against anyone or to stop an investigation that was launched towards anyone. So there was no incentive but also very responsiblely, I say, there was no political stop. I felt with my colleagues in the government that it was our job to create and open an uninterrupted political space, a political framework for fully independent work of the State's Attorney's office. And in my term, we have also passed a series of laws that I think are important tools in the work of the State's Attorney's Office today and related to the financing of political parties but also to the confiscation of property to anyone who is proven to have used their political position, political influence and that they have damaged the state. And these are important mechanisms, with changes to the Criminal Code of the CAP before that, certainly extremely important laws that create the legal framework, I think of the better and better work of the State's Attorney's office every day. All of this unfortunately ended and I'm also very open-minded about it, and unfortunately it ended with the HDZ indictment as a party for the first time in history. But we also thought in the party when the indictment came but before and when the announcement came that the party was under investigation that everything that is good for the Republic of Croatia must be and is good for HDZ as well. I, of course, have paid a political price in this whole procedure, but I am not sorry because I think that's the way every government, every government president, every justice minister, is going to be able to keep the work of an independent body, the state's attorney, from stopping anything, but also that the position of political power is not being used to direct the work of the state's attorney in any direction or any other direction. Finally, I encourage all of them, or I support all those who have asked the State's Attorney's Office, because I have launched this myself at the National Security Council, to find mechanisms to stop leaks of information from procedures that must be protected because it is only and always for the purpose of protecting the functioning of the rule of law in the fullest sense of that word. I'll be sure to support the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17117	I'd like to thank Agent Kosor. The honorable representative Ivan Klarin came to the floor, but he is not in the council room, so he loses the right to discuss this item of the agenda. I give my word to the esteemed attorney, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. I will support this report of the State's Attorney's Office, the 2011 report as I have supported the reports so far, because they are truly exhaustingly expressing what is their legal duty to show them, which is the state and movement of the reported crime and the protection of the property rights of the Republic of Croatia. Discussing the 2010 report somewhere late in 2011 then I gave some criticism to the state's attorney's office because we received the report in August. This year we received a report in the Croatian Parliament seems to me somewhere in May this year and I see no reason why we are discussing it only now in October. Why, because from this report we can read a series of data used by both state authorities and this Croatian Parliament to know what to do to solve some of the problems that the state's attorney's office warns or decides to improve the work of the same state's attorney's office. I must really commend today a peaceful and constructive atmosphere here in the Croatian Parliament which we were not present in previous years when we are discussing the State's Attorney's Office's report, but it was probably somewhere ahead of the elections, and then for what political and political purposes the report was used. Because I personally don't understand this twist in the debate, especially today's ruling ones for the 2011 report, in which we don't find any spectacular results or regarding the work of the state's attorney, so it's constantly going in some good direction. So there is nothing spectacular, and nothing spectacular has happened, say, in reducing general crime or improving the protection of the property interests of the state. I think that this report with a number of statistical indicators, with a series of warnings of difficulties in the work of the state attorney's office or some explanation of why the results mainly in the protection of state property are not what they should be, in fact, one good reading which should be read daily by both the prime minister and the entire Croatian government and removed, take measures, so if it is necessary to propose amendments to the law which would remove these obstacles. We heard today's book discussion, here's only if you open page 97 of this report there's work for the government for the whole year. The booklet of forests and forest land, the booklet of agricultural land, the entry of maritime goods is said to be the most valuable resource. It's said like this, we have to point out that this process is slow and ineffective, we've known for years, we've been waiting for an amendment to the Law of the Sea. It says in the rule that there is an entry on the property that is registered as a public good, but on all other properties where there is a need to work on a parcel website, where a border-finding committee must work, etc., says the procedure is expensive, no funds and extremely slow. As regards the recording of forests and forest land, it is said to be very different in some areas in Croatia, which is due to the activity, i.e. the inactivity of certain forest administrations. So I really don't know if we have Croatian forests as a single public enterprise so under which are all these forest administrations and which should be monitored. By the way, in this report, it's now a depression, but it's amazing how often a syntagma is used is a different approach, it's a different court practice, it's done differently in certain parts of the country. As if we are not one state that has equal laws, which has a state's attorney's office, which is formed from municipal to the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, I am saying this for the State Attorney's Office which has the opportunity to issue instructions in this sense for the conduct of its national attorneys, but this is happening in court and, so says the case law of this court in the garter is such, the case law of that court in the land is as if each municipality prescribes its own law on ownership. Therefore, it is simply inadmissible and the State's Attorney's Office should also work on it, and of course, it must also be taken into account by the Government and the Ministry that the application of the law in Croatia must be unique for, in all areas of the Republic of Croatia. I also read from this report that there is a need to regulate a series of laws that regulate property directly or indirectly, such as the Law of Ownership, the Law on Forests, the Agricultural Land, the Water Act, the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which often have definitions of certain concepts that are collapsing, and in fact these laws are difficult to apply. One more thing I would warn, or I don't, I don't see in this report the data that we had in the previous report, which is the success of the State's Attorney's Office when representing the state, when the state's attorney was then 83%, and when the state's been sued for success is only 33%. Why does it matter? It's important because you can see that when the State's Attorney's office goes into a lawsuit, then there's enough evidence for that, and it doesn't go into mourning. But it often has to represent the state as defendants for reasons why the ministries do not want to comply with the CAP when it has to start earlier in the ministry's settlement they do not want to settle, although they know in advance that the dispute is lost. So the attorney's office also has to run a procedure that makes it an additional cost for the state. That's why we're looking forward to this fact that by 10%, the number of deals that have been made has been increased. So, maybe something's moving. Equally good is the fact that the number of applications against legal persons has increased by 17% this year and the previous by 32%, which is not a question of any criminal offences by a legal person, but merely consistent work by the State's attorney at law enforcement. Here, in this sense, I am surprised by the fact that the overall verdict against legal persons seems to me to be 213 that in only 17 cases property was taken from those legal entities. It is indeed a data that deserves some explanation for the reason that proceedings against legal persons are always about the responsibility of the responsible person when this person, as we have read in most cases, is in criminal acts of fraud in economic business, when he is using his behaviour to benefit the legal person and not for himself and does not correspond to this information that so much is judgment, and only 17 cases of confiscation of property benefit. These extraordinary successes of the state's attorney's office in the criminal section, i.e. of 87% or jumping objects 97% and data on 255 million frozen assets and 79 million seized assets, I hold that it should be taken with the reserve. They're good, but we have to point out because maybe the public doesn't know this is about first-degree judgments. So these aren't the powerful judgments I'm reading from the report. Therefore, the final result, i.e. the final proceedings, may not be so because they have to pass the review in the appeal procedure, in the second instance. Therefore, it is unlikely that everything will be as it stands in this report. And in the end, here's everyone talking about leaks. Yeah, that's what the attorney general knows. I repeat it every year. Every year I get an answer that some others do, all parties in the process, and every year I say that I am not satisfied, because I believe that the state's attorney has the possibility and has tools from the Penal Code regardless of the changes in the CAP to commit itself to this and that, above all, because of the seriousness of the state that wants to fight seriously against corruption and organised crime, not to allow him to be obstructed by the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17119	Thank you, too. We have another individual hearing reported. Dear representative Gjurdzica Plancic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17120	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am the mayor of a small island city, and in my presentation, I will look back at, in public, a less exposed segment of the work of the state's attorney's office, which some predecessors have spoken of, but I want to point it out once more. It is about registering the right of ownership of the Republic of Croatia on real estate, specifically over forest and agricultural land and maritime goods entered in land books as general folk property with the right to manage the ancestors of units of local self-government or social property carried out by the Civil-Governmental Department of State Lawyers. If we're in local self-government units, at least we're in Hvar causing a lot of trouble and damage. The report says that by the end of 2011, a million 523 thousand 335 cadastar particles were processed or checked, making up 99.79% of all particles, which means that the job is at the end. You have to admit, the State's Attorney's office has done a great job. Therefore, by virtue of the Law on Forests of the 1990s, forests and forest land that were socially owned by law became property of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of who was the holder of the right to use by then. The acquirer of ownership is authorised to enter the land books. According to the report, the book is carried out on the basis of the data and documentation provided by the Croatian Forests to the State's Attorney's Office. the management of the forest on the ground based on data from the Central State Office for State Property Management, Ministry of Justice - Department of Land Books, own verification, but also on data from which the State's Attorney's Office comes in any other way. The application for the entry of agricultural land is based on the agricultural land law of '91. The agricultural land register shall not be based on data on particles and surfaces for which it is obtained to confirm that certain properties were located outside the limits of the building area on the date of entry into force of the Agricultural Land Act, which is not always the case because, as the report states, such confirmation is difficult to obtain, and the book is normally carried out on the basis of the data obtained by the competent authorities themselves. The result of such treatment by the State Attorney's Office and land-book departments of local courts is that almost all forests and forest areas and non-private agricultural land have become owned by the Republic of Croatia. This would not be disputed if the ownership book in favour of the Republic of Croatia would not be based on data obtained in two of the above-mentioned doubting ways. First, in any way and secondly, they confirm that, on the day of entry into force of the Agricultural Land Act, certain properties were located outside the construction area. Namely, one of the common ways of obtaining the necessary data is by taking into account the ownership and land-booking status of the property, i.e. the state of the culture which is wanted to be recorded and which is reached in the local competent offices of the cadastre, i.e. land-booking departments of the courts. Due to the chronic unscheduledness of the catastra, as well as the courts, land data in most cases do not correspond to the real situation, so almost regularly it happens that the land in question is listed in the catastra as a forest, pasture, oranica, fields, vineyards, orchards and the like in nature, actually building land located within the boundaries of the construction area and which was within these borders both in the 1990s and '91s. A year. However, regardless of this, as well as the certificates that units of local self-government obtain from the competent spatial planning departments to prove that the land in question was not located outside the area on the contrary within the construction area, the courts accept the requests of the State Attorney's Office and the register of the Republic of Croatia as the owner. By doing so, units of local self-government are brought into an unequal position where they cannot exercise their rights on building land within the building area, which should be provided by the Law on Building Land and the Law on Property and other real rights. For an illustration of the absurdity of the situation, they can give an example of their city in which the building of the City Theatre, summer cinema, as well as the already built large part of a settlement is registered to the Republic of Croatia. In these cases, we are exposed to lengthy and expensive court proceedings, the costs of lawyers and witches, as well as the lawsuits of the owners of houses to which the city had previously sold construction land, which cannot be registered. In appeal proceedings, second-degree courts, as we have heard before, take different legal positions. Here I would point out one thing, the one from the joint meeting of the judges of the Civil Court Department of the County Court in Split of 8 May 2010 which reads: "In order for the holder of the right of ownership to be obtained under the law, i.e. the Law on Forests, the Law on Agricultural Land, in the sense of the provision of Article 130(1) of the Law. The provisions of Article 15(3) of the Law on ownership and other real rights, i.e. the provisions of Article 15(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall apply. The Law on Land Books could establish the registration of that right in a land book is due to the state at the time the proposal arrived at a land-based court, i.e. sub-member 107. Law on land books, to prove assumptions for the entry of book rights. In particular, over the properties that are registered in land books as social property when the land-booking situation is not changed in the meantime, it is necessary to prove that this property is on the day of 16 October of '90. For years, the forest, or forest land, was owned by the state. However, in the absence of a report on the conversion of agricultural land to social property and building land cannot be exclusively relevant data from forest-economic grounds, that the land concerned is covered by the forest-economic base on 16 October 1990. It is also necessary to attach data to the construction area of the settlement on the day of the conversion. This is the only way to protect the right of a unit of local self-government acquired by the Law on Building Land, which ceased social property under the law, and on the building land that had not been brought into service and the right acquired by the Law on Fundamental Property and Legal Relations, which was not built on social property over which the right to use had so far been assumed by municipalities and cities.", finished quote. A particular problem is in the booklet of maritime goods particles in settlements in conditions where the maritime goods border is not defined. In our case, it happened that the Republic of Croatia was merely based on the fact that some large particles marked by a waterfront had been recorded on the property of the city’s market, fish and city’s business spaces built along the coast in the city’s centre. We are thus disabled in the facilities available, and we need to prove the obvious facts with the expensive process of articulating geodetic elaborates of cleavage of parcels. Although, according to the report, the process of registering the ownership of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the year, I believe it was necessary to approach this procedure significantly more carefully because the poor local self-government units are able to dispose of real estate in their territory. And finally, I would like to commend the State's Attorney's report as comprehensive, comprehensive and clear and say that I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17121	Thank you, too. We will now hear the final word of the Attorney General of the Honorable Mladen Bajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief, just a few principle answers to your questions, or remarks better said. First of all, as last year, I am experiencing criticism because I think everything should be criticised in every part of our report because it is the only way to increase quality efficiency, etc. I'm not saying this for demagogue reasons but simply because the idea of each of you is welcome in the functioning of the state's attorney's work and system. The inequality of certain state attorneys in court practice has been recorded on our part, and we are here, especially in relation to the analysis of the rejection of criminal charges, already taken over this year a whole series of actions. We did a detailed analysis and gave the State's Attorney's Office a guide to see what the reasons were and why it was such a different approach. First of all, the answer is that the different approach of individual police administrations on the ground is relative to the number of criminal charges filed for the possession of small quantities of intoxicating drugs. In certain areas, it is immediately committed to misdemeanour, and some state attorneys, such as Dubrovnik, Pula there is going to criminal charges etc. etc. In any case, in the next report, we will give a more detailed answer, and I am sure that we will agree to the actions in both criminal and certain ways in the civil section. Compared to Mr. Lesar's remarks, I do know that this is an objective problem of persecuting these crimes. Perhaps the State Attorney's Office, regardless of the views of the Supreme Court, the position of the courts, should have been prosecuted by some of these criminal charges, etc. However, the fact is that even next, the new law that Mr. Lesar spoke of did not foresee the objective responsibility of the employer, unfortunately, and there we will also find ourselves in certain problems. Although, I am sure that in that part we will accept the suggestion to be less conservative, as Mr Cain said, compared to these crimes. Something about appointments, I think Mr. Lesar was talking about, the appointment of state attorneys and deputies is not done by a state attorney, but by a State Attorney's Council in which, in addition to seven members of the State's Attorney's Office from different levels, they were elected by direct means, by secret vote, etc. two representatives of the Croatian Parliament and two distinguished professors of Law Schools. Reports, are you four times a year or not? I'm kidding, but we can really talk about all possible timings, but this last thing that happened can't be timing, because it goes to the harm of the state's attorney's office if anything else. So much for that. At the expense of the state's attorney's office. The fact is that we're in a certain way, or one way or another involved in that part is going to hurt us, that's one reason. The second reason is, you must know, this report has been in front of Parliament for 5 months. And the third reason is, you know, two officers have been arrested who gave up four major operations, one of them is this one. This is the smallest one so you know that, the smallest one. Something about the remarks of Đurovic's distinguished representative. I have not established the law or the system, it has been set up as the Croatian Parliament has already made it, and the control of this structure has also been done by the European Commission through monetoring and there are no objections in this direction. Except that it may need to be put under certain control and supervision of the rejection of criminal charges in the way that it is now done in relation to jumping objects, and I won't talk much about not taking away your time and space. Unfortunately, a truly respected representative does not have a conservative approach as a state attorney, for accepting facts or allegations of individual portals starting with WikiLeaks to some other messages or similar, takes for granted as a fact. I mean, if we had that approach, then I think half the state would be in jail, that's for sure. And I'm still more prone to a conservative approach, according to Agent Cain. Mr. Pupovac, he also misrepresents uniform behaviour, which we absolutely accept, human improvement, etc. He also spoke of success in war crimes cases. 43% are condemning, 40% liberating, so not 60, but 43%, but it's math, etc. However, we must also take into account the fact that it is mainly old cases that have been indicted long ago, some of them are being renewed. Where the evidence in these cases is significantly different than when the judgments in those cases were made in absentia. As for the observation that there is no list of state property, I agree, that remark is absolutely standing but the State's Attorney's Office is not a body that should have a list of state assets. The esteemed representative Cain mentions several cases related to the Istra area, related to the dispute over whether certain land is state or city, starting with Rovinj and beyond. Indeed, there are certain challenges in terms of both case law and the views of the County Court in Pula in relation to some other courts. However, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia took a certain position quite clearly and loudly after the audit. The state's attorney's office is acting solely by law, according to which the law determines how we will act, and whether it really should be so or not, I think that in that direction we should consider whether certain legislative solutions are correct or good. We have a similar situation in the area of Mljet where a dispute has been under way for several years. The Supreme Court has also taken the position of the State Attorney's Office because it is state property, but the state's attorney's office is not and does not want to be the brakes of any economic development or growth. Because it just needs to change the law and the state to know what she wants, which is hers, which is regional, which is local self-government. This isn't against it, but as it turns out, that's how we're gonna do it, so we're paid, finally. In relation to individual enquiries for individual items that I do not know by heart, each representative will receive an answer to that question. Just a minute. Something about rapes. Last year, distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic, gave me this booklet of the Sun here in the Croatian Parliament. So, in total, the proceedings are against 22 defendants for the war crimes committed by rape, during this period, 5 of them were convicted. According to the official database, I've got 67 victims of a rape. The book "Sunčica" that we received last year we immediately delivered to the Police Administration of Zagreb, or the Directorate of Police, held several meetings with them, as well as with the Association of Suncic in order to strengthen criminal processing and reach as many people as possible who are mentioned in that book but whose identity is unknown. He's just being named, etc. So the goal is for us to get to that same data, to correct the injustice that surely exists. The procedure in this case has been transferred to the County Attorney's Office in Osijek. There, most of these women were questioned and made a statement, etc. All available data were requested by the Office of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in Den Hague to be searched there by all their archives, documents, statements, etc. It is ongoing, data collection has been requested by the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, and also a review of the case against Goran Hadzic, where a trial in which the case has some information regarding rapes began today. There's just one more thing about leaking information. Of course, I can't say for sure that the information never leaked from the State's Attorney's Office, to tell you right away, because then I would know from whom if I could answer that question. I'm not saying that. I don't think so, and you know why? They never leaked the information at the time and during the previous proceedings, so until a warrant for the conduct of the investigation was passed, never. Something about Mr. Shantek's discussion. According to my information under command responsibility, 5 persons have been charged with crimes committed in the area of Gline in relation to direct perpetrators. Unfortunately, we still don't have the information that people could be. The police are still working on it, the request was delivered there on several occasions, etc. The esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić spoke about the work of juvenile departments and I must say that all major state attorneys therefore county and municipal state attorneys in the headquarters have defectologists or professional associates and that the deputies in all these offices work exclusively juvenile crime, at least such is my information. However, there is a Department of Juvenile Crime, etc. In view of the remarks made to the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic, in the meantime, I checked the Municipal Attorney's Office in Pula for the alleged case, however, there were no confirmed grounds for doubt, or there was no more level of levl, but it was in the very indications and information that we had. People who had some information about not saying anything else have also been examined, but they have not confirmed what you are talking about today. Unfortunately, I don't mind that if people are encouraged so I can say it again we don't mind continuing the procedure. As far as HRT is concerned, I'm responsibly saying that never a criminal record of what your officers are talking about has been filed, and I'd ask you to point those officers at me, I'll be grateful to them to tell me where it exists. True, there are 8 anonymous criminal charges anonymously compared to the situation on HRT and the police according to our orders as well as the Zagreb County Attorney's Office is working on these cases. As for my personal security, I can simply give you one short answer to that question, I'm not afraid at all, no consequences or the worst. So, whoever wants to go ahead, let me tell you right away. I'm not afraid if it means anything to you. That's the only reason. Mrs Đurdjica... the same remarks that were related to the Dubrovnik area, Mljet, of course Istria are also valid for Hvar. I would be happy for the legislator to resolve this issue and not to have any objections on the part of the State's Attorney's Office as to how these matters do not resolve. And in the end, the crime data related to World War II that was spoken of by the esteemed representative Shakespeare. Criminal charges have been filed against 11 known perpetrators and 26 criminal charges against strangers. 2 celebrities were rejected, 9 persons reported by citizens, etc. In all cases, police have been hired to conduct reconnaissances, criminal processing and to file criminal charges. Of all these cases, several cases were investigated, but the perpetrators died during the investigation, and one person is now in the investigation of a World War II crime. We've got a feed on six people. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17123	I'd like to thank the attorney general. Now look like this, we've got multiple replicas reported, which means we're going to extend or with replicas at 15.00 hours? How do the MPs want it? I call upon those who have applied for the replica not to decide whether or not. But I think it would be two, four, six, so three answers that's 12 minutes, that's a little too much, so then at 15.00 we'll continue with the replica. I'm setting a break now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17124	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. We have three replicas. Dragutin Lesar first picked up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bajic, I am pleased that you have shown yourself to my remarks on Article 114. The criminal code, and I agree with you that part of them may have been subject to criminal proceedings regardless of the practice of the courts. But what I would particularly like to warn, and from your report, as well as reports from other bodies, the lack of payment of wages and the issue of a certificate of unpaid wages or part of the salary is not sanctioned either as a violation, and in Article 85. The labour law states this, the employer's obligation to do so, and the penalty of 61 to 100 000 kuna is prevented in criminal provisions. And secondly, I must agree with you that the new law is also Article 132. The penal code is not fully clean and I would like to inform you that tomorrow as a representative club in the Assembly, we will offer a supplementation of Article 132. A criminal law under which the non-certification of a certificate of unpaid wages or of an unpaid part of a salary would be a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17126	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shantek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17127	Thank you. Here's to the attorney general, when you were talking about... you said five people were charged. My information was that there were six, but it doesn't matter. The bottom line of the story is they're not available to us, they're on the run. And it's terrible that this information is precisely what in this report on page 27 is that it is accused of the absence of 2999 persons, in all 3432. But even when they're extradited, and you remember the Duška Maslovara case, then we don't have enough evidence, so we have to let them go. That just happened with Maslovar. And another case for which I personally asked a representative question, which is the retrial of Borislav Mikelic, a man who was a very important political factor in Petrinja at the time of these events that I mentioned and talked about today. So, at the retrial of Boris Mikelic, the state's attorney's office gave up although he was somewhere in the '90s, '93. It seems to me to be convicted of a war crime against the entire population on a 20-year sentence. In the retrial, there was insufficient evidence and was freed of any suspicion of war crime and can come freely to Croatia. That's what I think is tragic and once again I appeal to all my colleagues, let's accept this conclusion because we owe these children who were actually shot. I can understand all of this, but I can't stand the fact that there are no punishable criminals against children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17128	Thank you, too. And the last replica of Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17129	Thank you very much. Mr. State's Attorney General, we've again received a response on the leak of information in one sentence, so no information has been released before the investigation process, and I'm saying that they're not the girls from the state's attorney's office. Let's just say that we believe it this way, but the fact is that the information that is protected, which is under the law, are passed on and transmitted and that nothing is actually happening, and that we all know that those damages to the breakthroughs of the investigation, so you're obliged to do something about it. I point to Article 351 again. A criminal law that describes the beings of a criminal offence if transferred or otherwise communicated something that is known to be classified. Therefore, it is very easy to see who publishes and transmits, regardless of what no one is, journalists are not obliged to reveal the source for their data and they are not, but it is also true for the editorship that what is known to be a secret information must not be further transmitted and communicated to others because it is a criminal offence. Therefore, we still don't know why such cases are never being prosecuted, and it doesn't do service in those cases, there may be maybe 10 defendants somewhere, so it might be hard to determine from where, but in some where there are 1 or 2 so you only have one or two lawyers and yourself and then it wouldn't be so hard to determine. But I repeat, it is primarily to protect the seriousness of the state, to protect the quality of the investigation, and that may be the public's interest, and that's what USKOK and the State's Attorney's office publishes on their pages, but certainly the public's interest is not but the simplest gossip, the phonograms written in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17130	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17131	Let's go report on the work of the state's attorney's office for 2011. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2011 report on the work of the national lawyers is accepted. a year." Please let us know who's in favour. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that the conclusion has been accepted with most votes, 115 for, 5 against, and 4 abstentions. In line with Agent Ivan Shantek's proposal, I am voting the following conclusion: "The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia will report to the Croatian Parliament within 60 days on the measures taken to detect, extradite and punish the perpetrators of war crimes against children and civilians killed during the Homeland War." I'm asking you to raise your hand and let us know who's in. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find the conclusion accepted unanimously, with 114 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17132	We're going to the next item on the agenda. This is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, first reading, P.Z. No. 146 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17133	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. At the beginning of the year, we had a discussion on the pensions of Parliamentarians where we agreed these pensions together with other pensions in the Republic of Croatia, so according to the Pension Insurance Act, and then we said that there was another pension that was defined by another law and that we would very soon propose changes that will go towards the end of the term of office of the President of the Republic as well as for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And before you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office. With the regulation of retirement through this bill, we wanted to settle two more things and this is a matter of returning to work after the term of office of the President of the Republic and the right, or the Office of the President of the Republic, upon termination of office. Therefore, the adoption of this law gives the President of the Republic of Croatia the right to return to work with an employer who has been in a working relationship for an indefinite period of time within 30 days of the termination of his duties, provided that the employer has ceased to have the obligation to offer him other relevant tasks clearly at risk if the company or company in which the President of the Republic has worked, and after the conduct of his duties has ceased, that company no longer exists. So it's a risk that we all have that then we can't go back to that workplace we came to or on duty or to the Parliament. It is also possible to exercise the right to a pension whose amount is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act as well as all other insurance undertakings covered by the Pension Insurance Act. The only advantage of the President of the Republic following the termination of his duty to go into retirement independently of the retirement criteria, so he can activate his pension independently of his years of training, regardless of his age but then his pension is calculated on the basis of those parameters that he has at the time of applying for retirement. It is also possible for the President to continue to have the right to the office, two civil servants to carry out official, administrative and other office affairs, and a personal driver and official vehicle, but we limit this right to a period of five years after the term of office of the President. We also regulate the issue of the current President of the Republic of Croatia whose duty has ceased, Mr Mesic's Office, by determining that this law in transitional provisions continues to apply the rights achieved within the same scope and may be used by the current president who has ceased his duties permanently after the entry of this law. As far as financial resources are concerned. Therefore, no additional financial resources are needed, we will even have a certain savings, as so far the president's pension has been determined as 90% of the salary of the President of the Republic of Croatia, but the pension will be under general regulation. It goes in two readings. So all the remarks we hear in the debate will be considered and accepted as necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17134	I thank Minister Mrsic. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17135	Thank you very much, dear fellow Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's a good thing the government came with this bill, but it's causing two doubts, two dilemmas. First, Article 1 of amending and supplementing the law gives the possibility or right to the former President of the Republic to return to the tasks from which he has been elected. It's usually a subject and two other laws that are being discussed now. Then a new article is added in Article 2 which says that after the term of office, the President of the Republic may retire immediately. So, you can choose or you'll go on working or you'll retire. I want to believe that there will come a time when the presidents of the Republic of Croatia will record the termination of the term of office with, say, 45 years of life. It's privileged status. So, we're just relieving him of anything else especially because of the extension of that sentence that the amount of pension is determined under the Pension Insurance Act 90% of the salary. Do not be angry, Minister, you can answer the word after my debate following the amendments to the Rules of Procedure you can request a word from the Chairman and he will surely approve you to speak no matter who calls. But read the explanation under article 2, which you gave, and then agree. Secondly, I also welcome a provision entitled to office, two officials, a personal driver and an official vehicle limited to five years. I think it's an appropriate deadline. But now I'm asking why this rule is made when an office, a driver, two employees are exempt from the current former president. Because in Article 6. The law states that Article 2 and 3 of this law does not apply to the current former president of the Republic of Croatia. The answer is probably going to be a pension, so let's say the rights acquired can't be taken away, reduced. And what happened to the acquired rights of civil servants? With acquired rights of employees in education, education, health care, social separation of collective agreements? How is it that the rights acquired by law for state officials, regardless of who it is, cannot be reduced and abolished and we must stick to acquired rights, and when everyone else is concerned, not by laws, but by government decisions, these acquired rights, and often by regulations, we can not only reduce but also abolish them. In fact, this approach leaves two categories of citizens of this country, protected and privileged and ordinary, which once acquired rights no one can have. And what's the big deal if we limit the former president of the Republic to a five-year-old office, two officials, a driver and an official vehicle to five years? What is the argument that those who already use these bonuses will last five years, not for life? I think even in these proposals of the law, when they write about it, they should take care of it and not propose solutions that are only partially on the trail of what was promised and which are only partially on the trail of what it says will no longer be privileged. It will be so long as there are exceptions in the law and for so long as we represent in the Assembly the the thesis that privileged elites can be acquired rights to be reduced and abolished, but to all others yes. These are the reasons why when we vote on this law we will refrain from supporting even though most of the law is considered to be good. The amendment will not be offered and written due to the old practice of Minister Mrsic that all the opposition amendments refuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17136	Thank you. Next on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17137	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is before us, as the minister said in the introduction of a law that is, in fact, the continuation of what we are already in this assembly, this parliamentary majority and this government that have already begun, which is to in some way reduce or abolish certain, in our opinion, rights that do not deserve public officials. It is about the famous parliamentary pensions, the pensions of all the officials that we have abolished, and then the question has been raised by the opposition of many, and what about the President of the Republic? Well, here's what we're dealing with right now, not because it's being dealt with by another law, not the one we've been dealing with. We don't have a long tradition in Croatia, we're a young country, we're 22 years old, we haven't had a lot of presidents so far, and especially not those former ones, and we don't have those specific criteria and standards and neither do we have a tradition like some countries have. Other countries also regulate this issue in different ways, but in any case all civilised and regulated countries are in a certain way regulating this problem. Well, here's what we're doing right now. So, there's a way of trying to do it, so what we're doing is I'm going to say a little rough caste of political privileged people is becoming less and less and less of a privilege. And that's what we do. We've done this with the abolition of parliamentary, or debt pensions, and we're trying to regulate it in some way with the president of the state. And you don't need to go to other extremes in those things. Now someone might say so let's be all equal, citizens traveling by tram to work could also be the president of the state or prime minister, etc. I mean, let's not go too far in that either. Therefore, everything needs to be measured. The president of the state is an institution, and institutions should be respected. After he is no longer president of the state, he should be regulated in accordance with our terms, opportunities for economic and any other and former president's status. And I think this law regulates it in a good way. Certain rights regulated by this law by the former president will be 5 years old. Just enough, so not for life, but five years. And that's okay. And I think about that, so here's what we see from the debate so far, otherwise it wasn't a big problem. What are we actually doing with these? I'd say we're sorting this out one way if I could say the Scandinavian model. So we've had in these areas, and about the political cultures of our people, and the people that surround us, the Pharaohian type of arrangement of state leaders and leaders, and now we have to get used to a different way where the president of the state is therefore a citizen who's got the trust of citizens. And it's precisely because he's got citizens' trust, so he has certain rights and obligations, but as a citizen. I wonder what kind of situation you'd find yourself in if it were for example. the first president of the Republic of Croatia to experience going after the presidential term in retirement, what right would he have? I'm sure it's a hell of a lot bigger than we're regulating with this law right now. Because it was such a mood back then and because that's how it was treated. However, the law should not be passed to any man in particular but in principle and equally for all. That is the aim of the law to be principled and to treat everyone equally. Therefore, when we adopt this law, we should keep in mind all future presidents who will be ex-presidents, and in this sense this provision is also allowing the president to return to his job that he had done well before, but also if he does not wish to return to retirement. It's conditional, let me say, the only privilege that he can retire, whether he's 65 or not, but under the terms of the Pension Insurance Act. So according to that, he'll have as much pension as his contribution to the pension system. And there I don't agree with my colleague Lesar, so there's, if the president of the state, potentially speaking 45 years old and wants to retire, that he can, but his pension will probably be very small, because he won't have enough internships, because he didn't pay enough into the pension system. And in that you see, therefore, the righteousness of this law. So, in that sense, a citizen as well as any other, under the same conditions goes into retirement. I think this law is as good as the ones we talked about when it comes to official pensions because we're slowly doing so. The political class, which has been quite privileged in the past few years, was also entitled to a parliamentary pension within a few days of sitting in the Assembly. I think we're slowly editing here in this sense our relations both in society and in politics and we're going towards a more normal, democratic, one Scandinavian model as we should.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17138	Comrade Jelusic, I apologize for a moment I will interrupt you. We are pleased to welcome our colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament to the delegation of the Committee on Budgets and Finance of the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo. Welcome and welcome. Thank you. [[Applause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17139	Thank you very much. Well, I'll keep going. So, I think this law is good in this sense because it further democratisations our relations in society, because it reduces the privileges that we agree to have been unwarranted with political officials in general. We've solved one thing with the previous law, and now we regulate it this way for the president. In doing so, without question, how can I say, the reputation of the president of the state as an institution, because the state's reputation is also seen through the institution of this country. Therefore, we must not banish or abolish all "privileged or right" until the final measures. I said right away at the beginning, we can't and we can't ask the president of the state or the prime minister now that, like most citizens, I'm driving to work, because that's what most people do. So, the president is a man who's got citizens' trust, has certain rights and obligations, and after that we also regulate which and what. So, suitable for this moment in political and social terms where we are. And I think this is a good way to permanently regulate relations when it comes to the president of the state, as well as the previous things that I've been talking about when it comes to all officials and MPs, etc. And I think that this should finally be the topic behind us and finally solve it permanently for all future generations, this and all future generations ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17140	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17141	Well, Mr. Jelusic mentioned it today, but in the last debate, the same question arises when we talked about senior pensions, rights. Would you be this side, if President Tudjman were alive, would you say so? Well, I guess we've moved away from how long it's been, and I guess we wouldn't be back in the '90s. And today we're sure to talk differently, and we wouldn't repeat a lot of things that used to be done in the '90s, but don't say it's a bad argument, would it? Maybe with 12 years away, maybe they would, they would. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17142	Thank you. We have another replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to react because I don't understand what this Pharaohic relationship is and that someone was Pharaoh. As former President Mesic and today's Josipovic were elected by the Croatian people, so President Tudjman was also elected by the Croatian people. However, at times when you correct your mistakes, because when you changed one law you did not cover everything, then it reminds me overwhelmingly of the story that the president would no longer table in Pantochaka. It was a story in the 2000 campaign. However, the late President Tudjman left, everyone stayed in Pantochaka, no one moved. But it's important to demagogue to say something, if any democratically elected then it was President Tudjman, and you say whatever you want. And I think there should be a little more respect for the man who is the father of the Croatian homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17144	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, pal Jelusic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17145	Thank you very much. I don't know who you've polluted with and who you've given the replica, I haven't said any of that. I said there were Pharaohs here, I didn't say it was Tudjman, that's what you said, but right now I found out something from you, that it was Tudjman, I didn't say it. But if you recognize him that way, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17146	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, Liberal Democrats Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. We at the HNS Club have a couple of principled remarks, principled views, and therefore the HNS Club proposes that the legislator of this law consider the proposal once again and again from other views. In fact, it seems to us that the proposal was made without looking at three very important segments. First, the President of the Republic as an institution. The President of the Republic is the only person, an individual institution in the Republic of Croatia, elected in the direct elections of all citizens. Thus, the President of the Republic became one of the institutional pillars of society. Personally, I am not sure that this institution is needed after it performs at least 5 years of office, and no more than 10 years of office, the role of the President of the Republic with the end of the term of office is to be ignored and placed in a position, conditionally speaking, irrelevant, and after 5 years again, conditionally speaking, ordinary persons. I am convinced that no one who has been elected by citizens in the direct elections for the President of the Republic is no longer and can never, again, be a conditional, ordinary person. Both at the level of symbols and at the level of specific experiences in communication with other and modern presidents and presidents of governments and all other states in the world. And at the level of the symbol, it seems to me that we are giving up symbolic pillars of institutions that both society and individuals are making some people and institutions respect each other because of the position itself, or at the level of the symbols. For the moral strength and promotion of all values, it seems to me that respect and continuity of the respect of institutions, which certainly includes the President of the Republic. It is one segment we would like to consider once more on that side, and on the proposal to amend this law. The second segment, which is imposed in itself and not according to us, by the CNS of the legislator, is taken into account the role played by the President of the Republic during the conduct of the tasks arising from the constitutional and legal rights and obligations of the President of the Republic. In fact, the President of the Republic performs so many specific tasks in the country and acquires non-stop specific experiences for which we in the HNS think it is not wise or to say mildly to give them up rather than to make maximum use of them in the future after that mandate in the future development of the state and society. And the third segment that is important to us and not considered is simply and personal security of the former presidents. There is certain in the work of the President of the Republic of the moment when the President of the Republic must, in the nature of his work, resent individuals or groups. Some times he deeply resents individuals and groups precisely because of the nature of the work he does. And I think it would be necessary in this bill and from that position to consider and perhaps add certain articles of the law, ways to ensure that the security situation of the President of the Republic, such a terribly important institution for our society, is seen in this way. And that is why we propose to the legislator of this law to look again at these three very important segments in the final proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17148	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17149	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There's another one of the so-called. populist laws from which certainly no citizen or citizen of the Republic of Croatia will live better but probably by the end of the year or by the end of this term, despite all these gatherings of living standards, despite the collection of food, water, electricity, gas, we will probably be selling citizens one political obstruction all the time, as we have reduced the powers of the President of the Republic. In view of the existing law, the HDSB club will support this law as it is written, since we believe that the President of the Republic at this time and has no specific powers which could first and foremost change and affect the events of social, political, social, economic, economic events in the Republic and that it represents practically not, apart from that of the commanding role, no marshall uniform, it represents only a certain ficus within democracy, and it has no fundamental authority except that it is listed as the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces legally-formally does not have the possibility of commanding the Armed Forces of the Republic because, in the extreme line, I do not mean here on the current president of the Republic, I do not have to say so to serve the military term nor the civilian. Therefore, in this law, among other things relating above all to the present Presidents of the Republic, adequate work-law protection is provided to him, given that he is allowed to return to work with the employer. But it may happen that some future president of the Republic, and I really don't want to do anything wrong with this president of the Republic, but it may happen that possibly the future president of the Republic of Croatia really comes from what was once called a working class in socialism, has the trust of the voters, and may be working, may be employed by a municipal company, so I don't believe that such a president of the Republic could return to his employer to this appropriate workplace. Therefore, the President of the Republic does not have to be employed and must not be co-owner of ZAMP but may also be an ordinary worker. And the question arises here is, what would he do to the former president if he came back to the employer's office, two civil servants, an official car? It should not be forgotten that the future president of the Republic may also be an entrepreneur, he may also have a company he did not have to acquire at that time of conversion and privatisation and in such a way he does not really need these two civil servants, equipped office, secretary, ficus, mobile and personal car official who followed him for the next 5 years. We at the HDSSB Club have been paying attention to the presentation of the HNS Club and the question here is clearly that this bill is not in line with all the SDP coalition partners and that again on Friday, when the vote on this law is held, we will have amendments or ministries or promoters or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The political system, therefore, is the executive power, the representative government is coming from the right of parliamentary democracy. We are seeking our way to the European Union, many politicians, and even if we do get it, I would not say thank you from the European Union, especially the country that runs the European Union and which is practically the greatest European power, Germany, on our thorny path towards the European Union, I see no reason why our proposals do not look up to what Germany has since 1945 through its system of parliamentary democracy. He has a president who is primarily involved in certain protocol affairs and is elected by the German parliament. I don't see any reason why a proposing in this difficult economic situation when we have a drop in economic production, industrial production, when we have an increase, a daily increase in the number of unemployed, when the same minister who proposes such a law announces that in 2013, there will be an even worse year, when everything written in those pre-election promises falls into the water, so it can't help that stone promises nor balvana and not straw, I don't see any reason why a complete change in the electoral system is not proposed so that instead of ten or 100 million kunas being thrown into the direct selection of presidents who we can be convinced have almost no power to change the situation in Croatia because this is not even a monarchy, it's not what we've had since '45. until the 1990s, and even those first few years when it was necessary during the Homeland War to have a President of the Republic of Croatia with all powers. So I don't see why, here's why all this stuff I've listed is not introducing one such choice of president. Let us look up to Germany only to that and perhaps we will probably like them today-to-morrow, and I would not like these prophecies of the ruling Kukuriku coalition to be fulfilled until Croatia is out of crisis for a few dozen more years. Let us therefore look to Germany and go here and this way not through the reduction of non-existent powers but above all that the Croatian Parliament elects a president, that the president should be elected to the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament itself, and it is visible throughout this whole time that indeed even in that former meeting, but in this one, there are really MPs only in mind to raise their hands when the party chief or the party chief says so, and they often disagree with their own opinion. Here I quote the former president of the Croatian Parliament. The HDSSB club also proposes the paper, reducing the number of MPs in the House of Representatives, introducing a two-home parliament. Whether at this time this second parliament will be called the County House of the Croatian Parliament or the home of regions that are not yet established as non-statistical units but administrative although in some laws that are before us mentioning regions, especially in certain health laws, they will be set up according to regions other than historical names administratively and in laws, where this second home with a reduction of this number of MPs, where MPs will be elected directly and where they will have the right to veto often the insane decisions of the ruling majority in all these 20 years of Croatia where they are today and has brought these citizens into one difficult and unexplainable situation, has led to many in this Croatia having no perspective. Indeed, I call on the promoters to take a good look at all that the HDSB club proposes and that one such solution that can indeed sound populist to someone, to reduce the authority of the President of the Republic, to reduce his right to say what he or she had or the president so far, I consider indeed one populist measure from which, tomorrow or from the day of adoption of this Law, it will be no better than we will continue to have a problem called in Croatia for most citizens, not from first to first, but survival every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17150	Thank you, too. We have one replica, colleague Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17151	Thank you very much. Comrade Vinkovic, you have well noticed some absurdities and paradoxes actually in the presidential role, in the role of the President of the Republic and in the conduct of the duties that are taken down here on the commander-in-chief of the Croatian Army, and the impact on security services and other roles that are as they are. However, I must point out that this role would be much more significant if, for example, after the two mandates of the former president and if those two mandates were to be analysed in Croatia by the year 2000 until the end of that term of office. So, the president as president, as an institution that we clearly respect but would be fine and I have neither read in the media nor anyone analyzes the period and situation in the Republic of Croatia particularly economically in 2000 and today. Where did we go with the gross social product? Where did we go with the number of unemployed? So, as a matter of fact, Croatia has gone backwards in some way. Now, if you take the part, then the president's powers will say so, so it's not my fault, so you're actually in full law when you say what you just said about that role and actually the need for this duty and the sense in which you spoke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17152	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, pal Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17153	Well, he's right, colleague Grubisic. Because it is simply that this is primarily about throwing dust in the eyes of the hungry Croatian people, or citizens of Croatia, and that after this law, nothing will be better. It won't reduce the number of unemployed, it won't increase production, we won't live better, there won't be any shift for the better. On the other hand, I didn't forget to say it. But another proposal to improve all of this, at least in this political life. Which one doesn't think of simply the same day as local elections, to be parliamentary elections. In this way, they would save at least every 4 years for several hundred million kunas, abolish the presidential elections. The Croatian Parliament would elect a president, because as a directly elected president, he does not have any authority. And about these other laws that are coming, so here I am going to support this law to get the parliamentary deputies back to work from which they came and yes, I will even suggest that their right goes on forever if the employer needs them, so here I am going to be mayor of the city of Djakova for life as this law is written. But I don't know if the HNS Club has agreed with the same law and I don't know what the IDS says, and I don't even know what the Croatian Party of Retirement says. Apparently they're shooting stitches in the Kukurik coalition and it's starting to get tight in the chicken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17154	Thank you. My colleague Vinkovic obviously needs a little more information, and I suggest you ask if you don't understand some things. We have on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So here is another law that was born as a consequence of a single law on the nose of the passed law that did not look at the complete picture of Croatia but were some pre-election promises, and then the president of the state and himself and as an institution found himself in a politically defenceless grape. And now, all of a sudden, we're going to pass a law of honesty, and I think it's only going to agree with the colleagues on the left and right of this assembly that this article 1 is offensive to the president of the state as a person and president of the state as an institution. It's an insult. It's an insult to me. That we, the man who has been elected by the people to lead the state in law, are honoring him as some kind of imposter, an employer, will actually take him to work after his five-year term. I'm sorry, that's a national insult to me. Because if after five years of his term, that man is not a desirable person to work in any institution. You cannot say, I apologize immediately to President Josipovic if I will have him with anything, if President Josipovic, who was an excellent professor after his presidential term, is not desirable for the Faculty of Law, then it is a tragedy for all of us and a tragedy for the Croatian state. To whom someone who is a university professor is not wanted to teach tomorrow at the university and to be a guest at many, many international universities, universities of the most sounding names in the university world. I think it's simply an offensive article for the state, an offensive article for the president's institution, and an offensive article for a person acting in that capacity. We, as HDZ, will support this law for the simple reason that certain things are being resolved, but I think that finally in this House with certain legal solutions we should also think about what people really think about us when they read these laws. What people really think of us. And do you really think that with these changes, because we forgot when we promised in the pre-election campaign that we'd get rid of privileged pensions as far as parliamentary deputies are concerned, so we accidentally skipped the president of the state, and now we're passing a special law for him, so if we're changing the State Officials Act now, that they can go back to their former jobs so he's not the president of the state anymore, so we're going to get him into that whole story. I think sometimes we still have to have a certain level and that below that level we just shouldn't go down. Because when people read this, they'll probably laugh at us. And you can imagine what they'll think of all of us. And I'm saying that's what you think, Mr. Mrs., it's your right, excuse me, Mr. Minister, but I personally consider what I said was an insult to this. So take, for example, an example. In the next election for the president of the state, some of the colleagues here who are in the Assembly will be elected president of the state. Where does he return after the presidential term? We now benefit from this law, and then he uses that Law on the Rights of Croatian Officials, and now, according to this Law on the Rights of Croatian Officials, he should return to some place. I think it's just funny. And the second thing, the elemental question, not to satisfy and to find some kind of interdependence of these five years of office use, etc. The basic question being raised whether we as a state, whether we as a nation, do we, like this Parliament, feel that the president of the state with some kind of my own to say volunteering can help the Republic of Croatia in any kind of international relationship or anything? That's the key question. If we feel that it can help, then a man gets an unsaved office, a non-gifted driver and not two dedicated employees, but we simply believe that because of his diplomatic activities he had in those 5 years, he can help Croatia in the future and not get any gift but also get something to help both the current president and the government with some kind of volunteer activity. And yet here, in a certain way, we insult the former president, we give him two employees, a driver and an office so that he can do something about it. And there's our mistake. And there's a mistake in thinking. And the logical thing is that an ordinary man will think just like this and look negatively at it all together. But I repeat, all this is happening because on the other hand, we passed a law and we didn't think about having 20 years of parliamentary democracy behind us. That we've built some things and we have certain experiences and as far as thinking and everything and in the end that we're not some worthless state, but a country that's slowly resting on some traditions and something and that we can make laws on that basis. So, no matter what I think this law is, I'm going to repeat everything I said was brought back to apply for a reason to correct the mistakes of that law. This law is offensive to the institution of the president of the state, it is offensive to the person who performs the duties of the president of the state. We will uphold this law for a simple reason so that someone does not tell us again about any Pharaohic or any other relationship. But you saw dear friends when the story got a little crystallized, when the guide got a little clear on these privileged pensions, they jumped on both the left and the right. So you never have to blame just the ones on the right. You've got everything on the left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17156	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17157	An esteemed colleague is the fact that he stands here in this law to ensure adequate work protection, given that he is allowed to return to work with an employer who has been in a working position for an indefinite period of time within 30 days of the day of termination of his duties, and if he has ceased the need to carry out these duties, the employer is obliged to offer him other relevant tasks. Now, in this House, we also had Komadin's law, we had a law that could have been called by a number of other state officials, but I would not want this law exclusively to be tied to the current President Josipovic who probably neither guilty nor debtor, although he himself said he needed to be reduced to certain rights, but I think this law should also be tied to the presidents who are coming. So that every mandate we do not change the laws that are related to the President of the Republic, except that we definitely make a decision to elect it from the Croatian Parliament and thus save several hundred million kunas in the budget. I ask the question, not to you, but to the minister what happens when the employer goes bankrupt? Then obviously that president has to retire. Whether he's in his diplomatic ties, knowledge, etc. can help Croatia. You see this law did not foresee bankruptcy, and in Croatia... Yes, it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The employer will offer him a place at the Employment Office and will be the assistant director of the office or his deputy, most likely. And, Mr. Secretary, you'll have a chance to talk, but this is still an intrusion to the counsel's speech. So, this law is really inconsistencies but with itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17158	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17159	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Vinkovic, you're right, you just know what? It seems to me that the bankruptcy will go to a policy that makes laws according to its daily political needs. Because no matter how many others attack to pass laws, but if we add up this 22 years, only one political option has passed such laws where current human problems have been solved. So here and here. It's not just the Comadina that's settled with that law, there's a few of them, and even those who like to pay homes, etc., and they're settled with that law and some of the like. So it's been solved a lot, one colleague who's been here for eight years, actually seven years of blood on straw drinking around caring about local self-government, etc. And he was dealt with by that law, you know a lot of them were dealt with by that law. But only some negatives like to throw on this HDZ side. We're probably because of all the responsibility we had for this country and we've become on call. However, we have never sought solutions like this for a man who is the most responsible that we today, along with Croatian defenders, of course we are sitting here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17160	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'd like to ask Minister Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. She has an old saying, "What's the weight of her grandmother, that's what happened to her."and so on the shooting of the coalition, not the harmony of the coalition. So none of this is true, so it is clear that everyone has the right to their own discussion, to see this law, and I must admit that since the retirement of the president and the office, we have moved on to constitutional changes in the powers of the president, etc. So, in a discussion that's legitimate and we think that, personally, I think nothing is a waste to hear all sorts of thoughts about how the state should be arranged. And when we talk about state planning, then the state should regulate laws and laws are there to regulate the state and determine relations in the state. Well, this law does some things, too, and it would disagree that we have to let it go, maybe one day what it looks like or that we write the laws according to the current current current president or any future, hypothetical, president. They're all in the same basket, they all have the same standards, they all fit the same in this law. So, if we had passed more laws that governed the state then we wouldn't be in the situation we're in right now, which means we're deep into debt and we're having trouble serving debt and everything else, but that's a story for some other opportunities. But I say we make laws, we have to regulate relationships, we have to edit laws by people, we don't write laws by people, we don't write laws according to some future hypothetical people. As regards the powers of the President of the Republic, they are defined by the Constitution. We only regulate this part of the law, this isn't a new law, it's a law. Therefore, the law exists, and this is the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office. So that law we already have, we're just changing it. And when we talk about retirement, so we couldn't change the pension of the President of the Republic with those laws, because it was defined by the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State Officials, Article 17. So, with one hundred laws. And we wanted this law to keep all the rights that the president has after his term of office in one place. I think it's appropriate at this point, when the situation in the country is like this, when the pensioners have the pensions they have, that we all meet on the same path and that they all are, they bear the same burden. Therefore, Article 2 does not speak of the president having 90% of his pension, so Article 2. He says: "The President of the Republic of Croatia, as the highest elected state official, has the right to retire after his retirement, whose height is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act, which is fully clear on how pension is determined, and not more than 90% of the salary of the President of the Republic, as set out in Article 17. The Law on Obligations and Rights of Civilian Officials, which is put out of force by the adoption of this Act.". As far as personal security is concerned, we do not feel that this should be defined by law because it is a matter of assessing the services that care about all this and whether the President of the Republic will have security protection for 6 months, one year, two years, five years, it is a matter of assessing the services that are responsible for this. And we think that, and we think that it shouldn't be regulated by law as it has been regulated by law so far. Also, the law regulates the office itself, so the President of the Republic can take office, not necessarily, take part of the right after his duties have ceased. I say we give him the right, whether he uses it or not. Whether they will have only an office, whether or not they will have a driver, will not have a driver, it is a matter of the President himself following the end of his duties to use it. Also, when we talk about going back to work, it should be regulated by law. So it can't happen to be about the relation of the president of the Republic, and the company or college at which he was employed, it simply says in law you have to take him back. If the company fails it's a matter of problem that we all have that we're dealing with politics, that one day we won't be able to come back. It's matter and these other two laws, that we may not be able to get back to that job we started with. Therefore, we regulate this law all that we need to regulate when we talk about the rights of the President of the Republic after we have ceased our duties. If there are any objections, the amendment will be happy to consider it and see if we can adopt it, but once again I say there are no disagreements in the coalition. We have the same opinion of this law, and this law will be adopted after the debate and the second reading in the Assembly by the majority of the coalitions in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17162	Thank you, Minister. We have three replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17163	And I think I'm still hearing very well, Mr. Minister, and on behalf of the HNS Club, it was said that this law was not in line and that it should be related to the three facts of the law. But those who don't believe, and I don't think there's any direct transmission on HRT that's spoken here, so I'm going to answer your grandmother or what happened to your grandmother with one folk saying, "Live and see." On the other hand, this law does not address a fundamental issue which is not only about the President of the Republic but is related above all, I would not say either about the institution of the President or whether the President will return to college. So I repeat, and I keep saying that this law cannot be tied to the current president of the Republic of Ivo Josipovic. So this law does not solve any important problem in which Croatia is present today but simply throws certain dust into the eyes of the citizens again, as we have reduced the rights of the President of the Republic and practically brought the institution of the President of the Republic into question by such a simple question. So if we want to solve the whole problem, we allow the Croatian Parliament to elect the President of the Republic and thus save the citizens hundreds of millions of kunas thrown into the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17164	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17165	Thank you very much. A fellow Vinkovic, or Mr. Minister, mentioned a folk saying that would actually be said in the original "What did Grandma think of it" if I wasn't wrong. But given these legal proposals, and I would say a little bit not to go into the depth of the problem, and even other points that will go to the agenda now, it could be said that there is another folk saying that can be applied a little bit, and that is the "Trla Baba Plan to pass the day".
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17166	Thank you. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it is not really clear to me now after this final word of yours, this article 2a, so the first part of the article "The President of the Republic of Croatia is entitled to retire upon termination of his duties". So it goes lex specialis according to this law retired. Now the second part of the sentence, it says, "the rent of a pension is determined by the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act". In the Pension Insurance Act, one who doesn't have a year of internship and one who doesn't have a year of age has a reduced pension, and then you need to write it here. ... I mean, don't get this now is really after Article 1 which is offensive to the president of the state this second one is even more offensive. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You might think of a man of 40, 50 years to go, and he was the president of the state, probably before that, whether he was a prominent man in his party or in his economy, and he was going to get 70% of his pension from 50 years of age. So we really insult people, insult the institution that it's just not normal. So you can laugh as much as you want, but the President of the Republic of Croatia menus no matter what name he has. And for me as a citizen, as a Croat as a citizen of this Republic, it is offensive that I speak of a man acting as president of the Republic of Croatia at the age of 50 to go to 70% of the pension. Well, that's embarrassing, you can laugh. Everything's funny to you, but we look at the institution a little differently. I've told you exactly about Mr Josephovic. I greatly appreciate him as a professor. And now take it from you so he can take the right to go to 70% of his pension. Well, that's just offensive. With these articles, we insult the institution of the president of the state, we insult. Do you really think someone at 50 would go to 70% of the pension? So let's not people, I mean we're really doing a circus from this country and from the institutions of this country just to cover some political failures.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17168	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17169	So when we talk about it, we should stick to the law. If we had followed the law, then some things in Croatia wouldn't be what they are now. So if we stick to the law then we will stick to the Pension Insurance Act, and the President of the Republic has a lot of other opportunities to continue working on his university, to be engaged in world organisations, so let's not distort the situation and now lead us to some simplified cases so that this part speaks of how we arranged the pension of the President of the Republic in the way it was arranged for all the citizens of the Republic except that we gave him the opportunity to go into retirement whenever he wanted. He will assess whether he will retire prematurely and will have a decrease or go into retirement age or work longer than that. Therefore, we have arranged a pension, and what will happen to the President of the Republic whether he will be engaged in some institutions, whether he will return to work at his post, let whoever is President of the Republic decide on it. Neither you nor I nor anyone in the House will decide on behalf of the President of the Republic. We gave a legal framework in which to move.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17170	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted the charges for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17171	Let's move on. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the termination of office, first reading, PZ No. 146. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the termination of office shall be adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law." I'd like to make a statement as to who's behind the conclusion proposal. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 83 for and 39 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17172	We continue with a united debate with the consent of the clubs. - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, PZ No. 118; - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, first reading of the PZ No. 117 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. in the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does Minister Miranda Mrsic want a representative? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17173	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. You have two amendments to the laws that speak about essentially the same things with another amendment to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. So, we wanted to regulate these amendments on the rights and duties of MPs in the Croatian Parliament to return to the workplace from which the MP was elected, so he entered office in the Croatian Parliament. We therefore ensure adequate labour protection since the representative would have the right to schedule, i.e. to return to work on the tasks he had performed prior to or on other relevant tasks, regardless of whether he was employed in the state, public or private sector. As far as the mechanism is concerned, there are two ways, so if it is a state or public sector then it is a return through automation, so it is back to work after one term, and if it is a private company, it means private ownership needs to reach an agreement, a contract with the company from which the representative came to the seat of the parliamentary official. We also regulate that the request for a schedule, i.e. the return to work, was required by the representative within 30 days of the termination of the term of office and also by harmonising Article 5 with the novel of the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which was previously abolished so-called “the Law on the Rights of the Croatian Parliament”. Representative's pension. As regards the second Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, we firstly comply with the draft Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during Unemployment, i.e. the list of state officials was introduced by the Director and Deputy Director of the Croatian Employment Service with the fact that they were determined by the coefficients for the calculation of wages the same as HZMO or HZZO. What we have seen in the law is that there is no director of HZZ and since it is an important institution and which is in the same rank as these other two institutions we believe should be put into law. Points relating to officials of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Health Protection at Work have also been deleted and I do not repeat, so the labour protection of state officials is regulated in the same way, so return to the post from which they were appointed to office in the country. We also allow this law to keep state officials who use 6+6 protections, so that they do not have the right to return automatically to the duties they came from, that is, the matter is separated, so it can be used either-or, so either you will return to the workplace from which you came from or you will use 6+6 modes. Therefore, it is a matter of the possibility of one or the desire of one who uses that part. We suggest two readings. As far as the funds are not needed, the funds have been still there as far as the HZZ Director is concerned, and as far as the officials we have deleted are no longer in charge of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17174	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17175	Dear colleagues and colleagues. This is the 29th amendment to this law. I think this law is a recordr by number of amendments and additions, that no consolidated text has been published in the meantime. The laws create legal certainty or uncertainty. When you have 29 amendments and additions in one law, and those editorially refined texts are never official texts, then you must really have great help, self-port, so that you can track which provisions apply, from when to when, when they have been changed. I think it would be an extremely good, useful rule to introduce to the Parliament that after three amendments and supplementing the new law must go. We have a situation that we also have the editorially consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament with a triple numbering at the moment, and I hope that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and that problem will be resolved. Mr. Minister, it would really be good if you suggested passing a new law, not amending and supplementing it because these 28 changes previously link to the whole difficult. The institution of the right to return to the former employer of the elected or appointed official is not a novelty in these two laws. This was introduced in the Croatian legislation in May 1995 by the provisions of Article 227 of the Labour Act. In that case, there was a problem which, given that the Labour Act was a special law, practically covered all employees in Croatia, and then, after much likable negotiations in the content of this law, we offered a solution to the appointed, elected officials of the Republic of Croatia have the right to return to work after the end of the term without making exceptions and without creating three classes, three positions, and then it was a compromise to return to the government's request for five years. If someone is longer than five years on a function that the right to return can no longer be used. As provided for in Article 227 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on the The '95 Labour Act. He's much better engaged than these changes and additions. So, I repeat, this is not about any new institute in place. He was later moved to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Officials, and was expelled from it after the introduction of special pensions. So what do we have now? The first order of privileged officials elected or appointed from the public sector, public and civil servants. It's hardly the state that's actually going to fail, that public services are going to fail. And they will regulate their rights relatively easily. Those working in the private sector will be able to use this right only on condition that, after the term of office, this same employer... What about any status changes to the public service, let's say when an office connects with the agency and he as an office no longer exists from where someone went, a new legal entity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about the status change of a private employer where the company just changed its status? This Law has not resolved this and does not offer solutions, so I would suggest that, until the second reading and possible status changes and legal consistency, both in the public service, in the public services and in the private sector, you consider how to solve it. A second grudge. Why an official who wishes to return has as much as 30 days of time to reflect on the application. Why not eight days? According to the Rules of Procedure and by law, some have, however, forgotten the right to activate the mandate is 8 days. Who doesn't activate his mandate in eight days while he's still standing still without him, right? Some have learned that in the meantime. We've been putting 30 days here. Why? Eight days. Everyone knows when his term will end. But why is it still important, Minister? Article 5 of the basic law also changes because you delete the right to resign. But now listen to what Article 5 says when you delete the words "species pensions". The representative after the termination of the term of office, so I quote the existing law until the beginning of the pay on another basis or the fulfilment of the terms of the parliamentary pension is now deleted or an age pension under the general rules for up to 6 months of the day of termination has the right to full, and another 6 months of half of the salary. I repeat, the possibility of abuse and false interpretation of words until the beginning of pay. For 30 days, he has time to apply, and the service, institution and employer has 6 months of time to decide, and the salary will be made 3 months after he starts working. Do you understand what I'm talking about? Because it does not say here in the law at the time of employment on the second basis of the activation of this right, but remains a provision for the start of the pay, and the start of the pay may be 6 months after the end of the term of office and the submission of the request for return. Therefore, Article 5 must be fully adapted to the new provisions of law enforcement and, at the time of activation, so that the transfer of work to that employer ceases all the rights laid down in Article 5 that are prescribed. My advice to you is to take this remark seriously, respect us because we know what we are or in the application of the rules until the interpretation of the law any differences and different approaches can be. And I'll finish the next one. What is the difference in the value of a representative who, on duty or any other state official, came from a public service or private sector? Why, if the government already considers the same possibility necessary, then not all of them do. Why do we make differences with new laws? Will someone who's been mayor of a city's two seats after the term of office in Parliament knock on the city door and ask him to come back? Or the head of the office? Probably. And secondly, does this mean that we are ordering political parties to prefer public service people to the election lists for the Parliament and the appointments of government officials? My colleague Jelusic is very fond of you, but I would ask you to allow the minister to interpret the law and you and your party friend will deal with it later. So, if we're sending a political message to political parties, you know, put into office, choose the public service council, because they're protected from the right to return, and you won't have any risks or problems, because those in the private sector have no place to go when their mandate passes, so they can be a risk. Such provisions of the law can also have political consequences, the wrong political message if we are already talking about that we are all equal before the law. You've proposed two laws before which not everyone is equal, they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17176	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Željko Kolar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17177	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. We are not all in the same position that is true and colleagues who came from the real sector, from production, there is really the possibility that when the mandate ends that they will not be able to return to the company from which they came. However, I suppose there are colleagues like that sitting here today, but I'm sure none of them thought when they were involved in politics, when he deserved his work to come to the party list and be here in this honorable House and do his job, I don't think anyone was calculating with being able to go back. I think it also applies to colleagues and colleagues who came from state institutions. And I think that should be clear first. As Mr. Lesar said, and he certainly knows a lot more about it than I do, the Labour Act defined it and was abolished by the introduction of parliamentary pensions. We're actually just returning something after that. One time it was at the same time, that's right, we're just getting that possibility back. Whether someone will use 6+6, whether they will use the opportunity to return to the workplace, whether they will choose it within 15 days or 30 days I think it's just the same. The fact is also that not only are we chosen but also colleagues who are appointed to have the same possibility. It states in which state institutions, professional services, bodies and all others where they worked where they could return to be within 30 days and that it is without competition. So this law regulates it. It is also important to delete from this paragraph 2 beyond the words of the agent's pension and the age pension because of the suspension of the agent's pension. And what is related to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, except that we have said that colleagues appointed have the same opportunity to return, that the Director and Deputy Director of the Croatian Employment Service are placed in officials, that their salaries and coefficient are determined and abolished, means that the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Health Protection at Work is deleted. And I don't think there should be any big name and show around this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17178	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, first I would like to congratulate you that we have chosen an afternoon term for transferring these agenda points so that the public doesn't directly follow what we have to tell her, but here's a previous law that spoke about the rights of the President of the Republic after the conduct of the office and the minister said one of the pre-election promises of the ruling coalition, these two laws dealing with the same topic are not a pre-election promise. They're not pre-election promises, but they're the continuation of your systematic work as you said we were making laws to create and set up a system. We read these two laws as an upgrade to the system that began at the first session after the government was presented, and it was about amending the Law on Civil Servants when you declared certain places in the state administration political rather than more professional duties, it was about ministerial assistants in all ministries and some other places. At that time, we are presented that the appointment without the criteria set by the competition is without criteria but exclusively a political likeness that is a much more transparent way of appointment, so we have put people in places for which conditions were previously prescribed which those who are now appointed after the amendments to the law probably no longer meet. Now after that, we have passed another law that says that they will, as well as most others, as well as a fellow MP, but also all officials, have the right to return to the jobs from which they were appointed on duty and after their duty has ceased. Perhaps it is not bad to warn you that with today the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia is 322 836. We were talking about raising Parliament's dignity, preserving Parliament's dignity, or talking about how the abolition of pensions that are accounted for by special regulations that included the pensions of parliamentarians is a matter that we have abolished, and now we come with something else, some kind of palitative measures, we want to protect those who are on duty and others, but also on duty to the Croatian Parliament. Thus, it is now the right for all those appointed on duty to return to the posts from which they are appointed, not only as indicated in the bodies of the State Administration, the judicial authorities, the criminal authorities, the professional service of the Croatian Parliament, the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the professional service and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the professional service of the Constitutional Court, the professional service of the Police Advocate, the professional service of the Ombudsman for children, the professional service of the Ombudsman for gender equality, the professional service of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, the State Office for Auditing and other bodies established for the performance of the state service, which is not a very good statement. Local and regional bodies, i.e. regional self-government, public services, extra-financial funds, legal entities owned or controlled by the Republic of Croatia and legal persons owned or controlled by units of local and regional self-government, or regional self-government, without public tendering. And we didn't, you went one step further, so you obliged private employers to take these people back, to a place from which they were appointed on duty if they concluded the written agreement. We hold it irresponsible, however unserious that the government obliges private employers to have someone appointed on duty after four years have an obligation to take back to work. Something has already been said about the fact that you can go bankrupt in the meantime, but it is a very big question if we want to get quality, best staff that will represent the interests of citizens in the Croatian Parliament whether we can get them with these measures. And of course, the question arises, and what will happen to all those who have such contracts with their employers, how they will represent the interests of the electoral body, whether they will represent only their employers' interests since their future is waiting for them in those companies from which they came. And that's what we haven't all been equal here before, not to take any particular examples, probably even in the government. University professors most often and doctors of medicine who work in hospitals have contracts and so far protect them from returning to the jobs from which they are appointed. In fact, some have a parallel and working place in hospitals or universities, and part-time is performed there, and part-time refers to their duties on those duties to which they are appointed. But there are also those who have no such right. And this law that you've offered doesn't solve the question and doesn't even it all up before the law. So there are those who have had their private companies shut down, their offices, public-books, lawyers or others when they have taken office and have no place to go. Because if you think he can hyper-hybernate his office for four years and then continue to work in that activity, then you're wrong. So far, neither has practice been the same, nor have we all been treated equally, and by this law you do not correct those mistakes. You continue to please some to have a safe return to the companies from which they came, until others have leveled that law and they do not recognize that right. This, it seems to me, raises a serious question about the constitutionality of this law and all those principles which, the Constitution says, is that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are equal before the law. And especially in today's day, given the number of unemployed being sent, I would say very simply, in bankruptcy, we had the opportunity to listen recently to about the workers of Gredel who have no right to protect themselves from having to return. We are doing a special caste of politicians, mainly as counterpart Lesar said from an administrative base or from a local and state administration base or even a public sector that will be protected and while he will act in office in the Assembly and will surely return to that sector that you often like to say is too numbered, that he is inefficient and unprofessional. By proposing you will not win the best people to represent the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the Assembly, you will only get one caste of obedient ones who will protect the interests of those who have set up here and will be sure to have a place to return regardless of the policy in the Croatian Parliament. The application applies to both laws because they are almost identical. It concerns both parliamentary deputies and all other officials who, at the end of the term of office, have the right to return to the jobs they have come from. This law can't be a substitute for everything you've made a mess in the state administration. This law cannot correct those bad relations that already exist with the political appointments of state officials, and this law, in addition to everything even among parliamentary deputies, has not leveled everything in rights, but has made differences here as well. I'm also afraid to imagine what differences there are in other state officials that you listed in the second law. It wasn't your promise, but you better not have offered it on this occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17180	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, if they share the debate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We had a replica. Here you go, Comrade Shucker. It was right at the beginning, so I overlooked it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Mlakar this reminds me of political infatuation in stages. We first adopted amendments to the Law on the election of mayors and mayors so that certain local officials could become government officials. So after that, we arrested certain political personnel and brought dozens of them to change the Law on Government and the formations of the ministries, so we abolished the directors who were elected to the public competition. No matter what anyone said it was like this or a contest, but he was public with him, he could have called whoever he wanted. And then the ministerial assistants named after the political decree are introduced. And now, the final stage of these political appointments is working and we are moving towards a political return. In moments when Croatia 300 and so many thousands of unemployed in moments when, under very strange conditions, Gredelj goes into bankruptcy and when thousands and some more people will find yourself as you provide your political elite with a return to old jobs. What kind of political message is that? And you're willing to criticize and attack everything that's happened one way or another, and now you're saying that you want to correct something with a certain political moneclature that each other is leaving. Politics is a risk. When you decide to deal with it, it may happen to you to come and go, it doesn't have to last until the end of the term, but with risk and status and all others you have to take certain risks that tomorrow, when that whole story is over, nothing is guaranteed to you. Why are we in a better situation than a welder in Gredello? I don't see any reason. Why were we in a better situation? At this point, we have a higher salary than he is and we have a better status. He has nowhere to go after his bankruptcy, no one guarantees he'll come back. And we're guaranteed to go back here and there. I'm glad the government gentlemen are laughing so sweetly. It's obviously funny to them, but the workers of the Gredela and those 306,000 are really nothing to them. And this Croatia, more no one. [[Intruder: Time.]] Mr. Minister, don't come home, I'm still the representative elected, and don't give me a hard time. Mr. Vice President, a minister can't let that happen to a representative while he's saying he's taking it this way. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17182	Thank you for your warning, but I'm asking you to accept the time. And now on behalf of the HDSSB club, the divided debate Josip Salapic was the first and after Zoran Vinkovic. Here's a colleague of Salapic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. In my personal opinion, and I believe that my colleagues from the HDSSB club agree well that we are talking about this topic this afternoon because if we had talked about this in the morning, the Croatian public would certainly have misunderstood what we want to say today to these amendments to the amendments to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and on the rights and obligations of state officials. We colleagues and colleagues at the beginning of the term of this 7th session immediately put the rights of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, or we talked about those privileged pensions, and then, if you remember these discussions on the pillar of shame, we put a number of fellow MPs in either today's Croatian Parliament, or those who have exercised their rights under those previous regulations and who are parliamentary representatives in retirement who are not very much spoken today. Some of us remember some of them, but they're all our fellow MPs. It is certain that each of us came from different sectors of working life, whether from private, whether from public, state, university. I am one of those who came here in such a way to the Croatian Parliament. What is not good for us today is said about rights it is said that MPs in the Croatian Parliament will be able to return to their jobs without a public competition from the place where they came here to the Croatian Parliament. Today, when the number of unemployed is increasing, today when the situation in Croatia is not good, we feel that this right should be regulated when we are already the principles of parliamentary representatives of the rights and responsibilities of MPs when we talk about privileged pensions. In fact, it happened for me and for us in this session that we, too, are MPs of the Parliament, are sometimes responsible that we should be honored by me because our work books here in the Croatian Parliament today but are in the hands of our constituents, our work books are in the hands of those who elected us to the Croatian Parliament and after 4 years some of us will no longer be sitting here any more. Therefore, this law applies to those whose term of office will take place in this four-year term and that colleagues and colleagues will be able to return to their jobs after the term of office. That there's Mr. Minister's void, certainly there is, and that may need to be improved. We are sure that because we have seen in previous discussions that there are a number of issues that have not been resolved. What we as representatives of the Croatian Parliament should do today, and many forget that the Croatian Parliament is the most representative body of citizens in Croatia and that the Government, and you, Mr. Minister, has come from this House. If in this way we continue to undermine the reputation of Parliamentarians and when we talk about ourselves so that we are not worth anything, then the question is what will the Croatian public and those who chose us about our workbooks say in four years' time. It is certain that regulations should regulate the rights of MPs, and we agree with this way in which you have partially resolved the questions that have been resolved under former regulations. I came myself from the public sector and I had the opportunity to sign the agreement by coming to the Croatian Parliament under that law. We will now abolish this article in Articles 8, 9 and 10, so it is clear that this is the case for both parliamentary representatives and state officials, these articles of the law cease to apply and that this is regulated under this law. So no one came that he didn't come anywhere now, that he didn't have to go back anywhere. There was already something, and there was what we were going to end with this bill, so there's a possibility that this law could get the parliamentary representative back to where he was. What may leave an open question, whether this 30-day deadline means the end of the parliamentary term, so on the day of the convocation of the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament, giving the oath of new fellow MPs, or whether the right of the minister is regulated by those 6+6 months when the duties of the parliamentary representative ceases after the regulation of that right. That may need to be clarified in the legislative proposal. And what needs to be repeated again, I'm sure it's good to discuss this afternoon because there are a number of other topics that affect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which need to be discussed and solved the problems, and we should have dealt with all of these solutions in one debate, in one legislative proposal. It would be much easier for everyone, and I believe the Croatian public would understand that better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17184	We're moving on, colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17185	Here I am going to pick up where my buddy from the club stopped. It would be interesting here in this law, given that the debate was united, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials see here on pages 8 and 9 as much as the Republic of Croatia actually has officials. It is likely that some administrations like some European Union countries, the great world powers have not even heard of such a number of state officials who, these few months of this new government, I am primarily referring to assistants, deputy deputies, secretaries, assistant secretaries, or I don't know what, who, by a miracle, did not come again through the public tender, but will go away as they came because it was a firm promise here and the Prime Minister, but also some ministers that they would never stay in the system forever but go away for the day of the election, but apparently this coalition signed it that they would never lose the election so that probably neither the state officials would ever leave this state administration. Dear fellow comes a difficult autumn, a difficult winter and the difficult next year when the more expensive gas comes, more expensive heating, more expensive everything, so I don't really believe that the Croatian people or citizens of Croatia will be kindly watching us smile like this, etc. But here I didn't know he was a government official and spokeswoman. This is primarily the PR person who really has nothing to do with the state's duty except that he came also without a public tender, appointed by the government, doesn't even have to be trained professionally, but it's mostly important that he was first of all committed to his great boss and perhaps he did so and the HDZ had a spokeswoman of the government and in his Law on State Officials. I must say that many local self-government units, too, probably where mayors, mayors and regional self-government, mayors, mayors, don't know how to talk, have their speakers, I believe that those who are directly elected respond directly and directly to the citizens who chose them and when they have to say something unpopular. That's what the Prime Minister should say, not a spokeswoman, and give him a salary that's in line with here, for example. Assembly representatives who had the most calls and their privileged pensions. They're somewhere in the middle of this series, a huge list of state officials. Like what? Here's a civil defender for whom I don't see such successful work, or I don't see the power of the attorney general, has a coefficient of 6.42, and a parliamentary representative of 5.27, and since someone is probably watching Max TV's salaries, officials are determined by multiplying the pay base with the coefficient established for certain officials. So, for example. and the Deputy President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has 7.14, and if we know that the majority of the Constitutional Court judges came by political trade here from some parliamentary benches, some from the Office of the State Administration, precisely by the political trade of the largest parties by the number of MPs, then we see that for their work, given that several thousand and thousands of cases stand in that Constitutional Court are obviously overpaid. There is therefore a number of other elements that say that this law is indeed not the same for all, and particularly applies not so much to all parliamentary representatives, but to these lower-ranked state officials who, above all, have been brought into various ministries and state institutions in these few months without public competition and who will be able to return to their jobs, provided that they are employed indefinitely. And as far as I know in Croatia, this notion of an indefinite time has long been lost and there is no more job in Croatia. In particular, I do not see the possibility to return to a privateer, to return to a company that went bankrupt, and here it is important to note, given that we have played with the population as well, that, above all, the practice of European parliaments and that it would be very good if this ministry had made as a legislator, that it had made one summary of the rights and responsibilities of state officials and MPs in Parliament of European countries where it would have been visible which is the tendency of these rights and duties of MPs in Parliament. Even some countries go to the point that elected MPs or members of parliaments work for several years so that in their work as advocates would not benefit certain lobbys, certain interests being private, they are the interests of certain other countries. With us, it was one twisted case, so many former ministers who went on a bike to the government meetings, trams, etc. but very short time since they replaced it very quickly with comfortable BMWs, comfortable Mercedes, replaced with free vacations in Brijuni, in various resorts of the Republic of Croatia so it might be visible how much such a team costs unlike these parliamentary pensions that have been paid so far. Some ministers went to those first renovated for a few billion dollars, went, became directors, and those banks sold for about two, three billion kuna and Croatian citizens out of their pockets, out of filling the state budget, may have spit out almost 20, 30 billion dollars. Some ended up as advisers, as directors in major concerts that actually run this country, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And here is an issue which is not only about MPs, it is not about the conditionality of state officials, for the President of the Republic who is the only one directly elected, but also about the equality of local self-government and regional self-government. It's a matter of first and foremost directly elected mayors, mayors, mayors. What's the difference between the MPs who came from the party list and I think it's more important to say so directly to the elected head of local and regional self-government who, if the next elections don't go through, I'm going to go back to town and be the mayor of life, but that's another story in the way this law is written. But first of all, this law is not the same for everyone. The HDSSB Club will be abstentioned in the adoption of this law because it does absolutely nothing but enables the protection of those who are politically engulfed So, the closing sentence. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]] So if we're passing a law that's related to politicians then we pass a law that, and all citizens are equal to the Constitution, then all politicians at all levels should be equal, so let's pass a law that will define all politicians at local or state level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17186	Thank you. We have one replica, colleague Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is my colleague Vinkovic talking about the difference between those chosen in the direct elections, so mayors, mayors, mayors and municipalities, so representatives who were actually elected from the party lists. So, not by direct route, but by some means by means of an indirect route. Well, that's also an opportunity to say here that in countless debates in this House we have highlighted the fact that elections for the Croatian Parliament should also be direct elections, elections by name and last name, and then we would, in fact, even ourselves and then this right might be evener. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17188	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17189	Well, direct choice is the basis of democracy. So people don't vote for beautiful Zoki, I can think of myself, but in any case when the direct choice will vote then for a man by his name and by his last name. This is how they vote for one construction, at least in these elections, which was called Plan 21, or if I'm wrong someone can correct me or call themselves Plan 21 where everyone was on those jumbo posters retouched, embellished, and in the end after these choices we got just a harder life. But therefore, it does not turn out that we primarily represent ourselves and fight only for the interests of MPs to me personally this law corresponds since probably the Constitutional Court will today when I am not a representative and when I wish to return to my post from which I went to the Croatian Parliament it will be the mayor's seat. So we'll sue with the Republic of Croatia because it'll be impossible, or it'll be possible because I'll win the election. But if God doesn't let me be sick, I'll have to give up my job. So I'll probably be mayor of Djakov for life under this law, but I'm saying it doesn't turn out that we're so worried about our rights right now I'd like that worker Gredelja or that PIC worker Djakovo who disappeared into conversion and privatisation that this law applied to him as well. And that he could return in the morning when or those years when he came from the front line of the battlefield that he could return to his workplace. However, when he returned from Toma's oak, there was neither PIC nor his workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17190	Thanks, buddy. An individual debate further. Comrade Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17191	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister. Well, here I join these wishes to our beautiful desires. to realize that it's a good thing we're doing this out of direct television transmission because really after a bill like this, you don't know what a man would think. I have a feeling that the additional we here today, we parliamentary representatives, must be ashamed in front of this Croatian people because I have a feeling that this legislative proposal has come here without our request, without the initiative of the parliamentary representatives. And I would like to hear from the minister who gave the initiative to allow such a privilege to be given to parliamentarians without saying so, neither in the bill nor the minister spoke of it. Really, who was it that suggested I tell all of us after some kind of official function made it possible to return to a former workplace? What if people really thought about us after we abolished the privileged pensions that only the prime minister said about then, I'm going to quote him, "I know budget savings are small, but it was obviously a cornerstone that bothered the citizens." That's when it's said for privileged pensions. There were those who took advantage of that right, some being impaled to a pillar of shame. Now I'm asking what kind of stone is this for our parliamentary representatives? We're among people, of course people are going to ask us, and what are you doing there? Who gave you the right to come back among us with such privileges? We don't have such privileges. When I lose my job, I'm on the desk. What are we gonna tell them? That the executive authority has solved this for us. We were just listening to a discussion about the retirement of the president of the Republic of Croatia. What did the SDP's representatives then say a few months ago, just a few months ago, on the matter? Then he's one respected representative, and I'm going to quote him, and I'm going to say, "Through the Institute of Pensions of the President of the Republic, we show how much we respect or disrespect this institution." The Poles had a president who was a welder in the market, but they didn't think to put it back in the market because it's an expression of the will of the people, because they hold to their country and president. After a few months, we're going to caricate our president back to the mall. Luckily, he doesn't work in a bootlegger. He was a professor at college, and he'll be back there obviously. But as a House of Representatives, we give him the generous opportunity that he had I believe as a person with all of his characteristics and without law. And we instead of dealing with the system of work and these 320 thousand unemployed, I say we're dealing with ourselves again and we're constantly amazed at the grades of that same people about us MPs and this House. We're always the worst, two. There's something a little better going on, the president is the best. I speak openly here, I do not want this privilege. Because as my colleague Lesar used to say, she is for all a few people in this House of Parliament. Everyone else doesn't have a place to go back, some mayors are 20 years, some were officials, so ministers, ministerial assistants, state secretary, where do these people go back under this law? Nowhere, but generously here we as executive power give you such an opportunity. And we have to agree to that here. I don't agree with that, and I say I reject such a request by the executive authority for me personally. I think there are good mechanisms that have existed so far, that's 50+50%, so 6 months plus 6 months enough time for each of us to find a place in society. Because this is unfair to employers. Why should we make people hire someone who left them on their own? Politics is voluntary, if I understand that well. I entered my party voluntarily, no one forced me out of those parties to come out as willingly. And we've turned politics obviously here into a profession, so we've disgusted the people that people just look at us with a laugh. And after these, I say legal proposals that will be even more. Why drive that employer into the difficulties you left alone out of the desire to represent both the people and some of your visions, to try to achieve some of your programs, you have to go back to that same job that he has to keep jealous of just you, everyone else can't compete for that job. But I say, after all, I am not surprised at all this, because the improvisation system that has been introduced since the very beginning of this government's mandate is giving its results. This violent change in the entire system of state administration is today reflected in the ineffectiveness of the same, and the entire investment cycle has just been stopped for the sake of this change. I rebelled then, but I say we're a minority, so we can't pass the laws. Look at the departments, we replaced the state secretaries with the deputies, we put the assistants above the director, i.e. We abolished the principals and we said it was a rescue solution. Now look at certain ministries that have one deputy, one or two assistants, they don't work. I will give an example to the Ministry of Regional Development, one assistant is responsible for 550 local self-government. I'm asking if this man can even read every day all the memos that come to him, and all the demands that come to him. Are we, like, co-opted as a government in command of these changes? Then what did we do to the MPs? They've never been at the level of coefficients in the rank of ministerial assistants, today they are. The deputy minister is more valuable than a parliamentary representative, not to speak of ministers and beyond, and we are at the level of ministerial assistants. And now we're giving ourselves one fine privilege, I say the privilege, the great privilege, that those with such a coefficient and all these great rights that we have as Parliamentarians can be returned to nowhere. And of course we should support it now. I think we didn't need this, I'd like to hear from the minister who gave the initiative for such a legal proposal, where Parliamentarians also say they are inside if it isn't possible for a few people who may have come from some companies here, some firms, or at some lower levels, as counterpart Vinkovic said, so they should be returned by law to those same places. This is a step back in the perception of politics and politicians, and no matter how many of us are here in the afternoon, there are mostly thirty, twenty people with such proposals, legal proposals will think of us worse and worse, and yet I repeat, we may not be guilty of that. How do you defend yourself from such legal proposals in the first place? Impossible, impossible. And of course then we're all the same, in that same basket we all look the same, and the benefits will obviously only be used by some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17192	Thanks, buddy. And on your exhibit, we have four replicas. He's his first colleague, Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17193	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, it is true that we fellow ministers here, so we are all in that rank, so we can call ourselves that, again and again, four or five times this year, ever since this new government is in power and in power to say, or serve the people like that, that we are dealing with ourselves. In fact, it would be much better if, therefore, this government of Kukuriku coalition took care of these 320 thousand unemployed so that this number would be significantly lower, either by strategy and concrete investment and by launching the economy, or that it would be a retirement basis for the General Peace Act, so that it would rise up and be, say, a minimum pension of 4,5 thousand kuna. That would be the right thing to do. Then what you say, privileged pensions, wouldn't hurt your eyes. But you too have succumbed to me to tell that media harangu and the harangu of these ruling. When, at all times, you used the word "privileged." Right and by law, and by regulations it is called under special terms of retirement, not privileged. So when we talk about it, then here's the thing, now actually, it seems to me that one privilege, let's say that, and under special conditions, is actually compensated by another privilege, and it's going to be recognised by the citizens, it's not a problem to recognize. Even more than that, there are not only these 151 parliamentary deputies, but there are 10,000 more officials covered by this law. Well, count it, and you'll see how many local, regional and state officials plus parliamentary deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17194	Thanks, buddy. Next replica of counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17195	This is also an esteemed colleague, this is a compensation for, I would say, lowering the dignity of MPs, but also the Croatian Parliament who eventually chose the government. And I don't see any reason why he chooses a government that has executive authority not to choose the Croatian president. Not to repeat that debate, the debate that I had just had, but here I believe that in this law, since here we also have the Deputy Director of the Croatian Institute for Health Oversight, and I certainly didn't know that we also have a director of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute at work who has the same deputies, assistants, etc. I even thought it was under the Croatian Health Insurance Office that this person is not shared. And another issue that is related and since I have often asked the question since the state official and president of the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia is what this man is doing at this time when there is no choice, when we have yet to pass these laws that are also related to the list of voters, etc. What is he really doing? Is he getting that salary all the time with a coefficient of 6,42 that's far higher than the constituency salary? This is where those chips are introduced, so soon they'll introduce here that you probably need to get down on your knees before entering the assembly, because it's going to be a new code of conduct. And it doesn't matter to me how much anyone sits here but above all who says and points to these problems in which Croatia is. I am afraid to think about what will happen when many Croatian MPs become representatives of that British Parliament's Lower House, which was mentioned by one British series about that B stard where in a beautiful and picturesque way he showed between the rest and Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17196	Thank you very much. Next replica of counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17197	Dear Mr. Boric. You asked how to defend yourself against such legal proposals in which legislators offered us some privileges as a substitution for those we had. You're wondering who suggested this law? It doesn't matter who proposed the law doesn't even matter if it was planted, it is important that we have representatives in the Croatian Parliament who think with their heads and who will refuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17198	And the last replica of my colleague, Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17199	I'd like to replicate my colleagues' privileges. I don't know. Maybe we're not representatives of the same summons. As a parliamentary representative, I have no feeling that certain privileges are something great or that they are indicated. The only privilege is to remove our parliamentary immunity if you're under trial. All other privileges of transportation, parking of all other things have been lifted. And this is normal and retirement, and I don't think it's a privilege for a person who's been at work to have the right to return to his job. As a party, we are certainly against the fact that the law against any citizen is discriminatory. If professors were able to return to their jobs, I don't know why and if there's a worker in Shkver here, so they need to go back to their jobs so that it should be questionable. I don't think it's a good idea to go out with this kind of stuff and create a name that parliamentary deputies are particularly privileged. And as for the number of officials, I think there's a safe way to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17200	Reply to the replica of counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17201	So I'm saying I'm going to show my disagreement with his replica because I think and I think 99% of the Croatian public thinks we're privileged. I may be wrong, but the stories of a very cheap parliamentary lunch, the stories of paid status, travel expenses, privileged pensions as Mr Grubisic said, and now the opportunity to go back. Yes, yes, and a privileged pension was a privilege. But it was once again a cornerstone that bothered the citizens. Now I don't know why this privileged pension is a thousand, two kunas bigger for which the prime minister himself says budget savings are small but it's a cornerstone. So now I'm asking her what this privilege is? This is a buzzed shoe that I have to wear for the next three years amongst people and tell them I'm not going back to where I started 15 years ago, that my colleague Cain can't go back there I don't know where he worked 20 years ago at all. And I think we'll all go back to the employment desk when this story is over. So I don't share the opinion that we're not privileged because the Croatian people think it is. Look at all the media, portals, all the texts that come out, and we've contributed ourselves to thinking about us that way because when we were supposed to protect ourselves, we haven't done it, so we've lost points on populistism, and now that we're not for this kind of populism, I'm not personal, and now that point should be ours. Thank you very much. I don't want it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17202	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Comrade Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17203	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's what we started today with these people's sayings, so let me get on with it. It would be said that after all these debates where we Assembly representatives or ministerial assistants are still discussing ourselves about their own corner or cornerstones, would I eat a river in a corner I would never say to a square, that little or bigger one would actually enter a stage where here, after 10 months, I could say another saying, "Turcs came up with misery," so instead of that cornerstone of one, we go to another cornerstone that's going to come back to me again, it seems to me that's hurting it. I would say that's actually what I said in one replica, so one compensation calls privileges or laws that were adopted by both HDZ and SDP before on special pensions or by special regulations, and one and the other, so that this compensation applies to so-called. At least as far as we're concerned, the assistant ministers under quotes, for the compensation of Friday's deputies. I say on Fridays, it's those who vote on Fridays and come to the Parliament on Fridays to form here a voting machine and hands that will raise that Friday for proposals proposed by their government. You asked well who proposed the law, and I might ask myself as much as my colleague Vuksic, perhaps just a little different, and who would vote it. So we'll vote him, ministerial assistants, we'll vote him. On Friday, we'll actually see the real state of things and whether it was a pebble that once bothered to replace with another cornerstone that now doesn't bother. That cornerstone that was so media-exposed and where some people were spit literally, and it was a further spit competition, today it will pass, or I think it will go almost completely calmly, undetected and if someone gets into the eye and blisters the eyes of our citizens. Is it in some sense a standoff for those who are as you said yourself in the state administration, the administration employed by political likeness or for those who are here, many of us so-called. Friday MPs or Friday MPs, whatever you want. With us ministerial assistants, therefore representatives in the Croatian Parliament are included in these legislative proposals and officials at the local, regional level. And when you count on that page 8 as my Vinkovic said all those who are numbered there, and you have 429 municipalities, 130 cities, 20 counties, so when you multiply by the number of officials by that, and then you add government officials to that, then it really turns out to be a thousand of those who are going to return to some of their jobs under this law. How will the people he currently has view it according to the information of the Croatian Employment Service 320,000 and say the number is growing 500 per day reportedly, they said. 500 a day of new unemployed, dizzying speeds, say as in Spain, and we are by the number of residents 10 times smaller countries than Spain. Therefore, it is clear that we, as parliamentary deputies, will never get severances like a certain Vojkovic in Croatia, a million euros or one Dragicevic in INA from another million euros so that he does not mind there because it is easier to do this than to do more damage to the INA. So that's the kind of privilege we can't even dream of, and we don't need them. But because of that and because of this debate that is going on like this and because of what comes from these legal proposals, it seems to me that little bit of this debate is somehow happening in this peaceful afternoon mostly without those Max TV cameras and Max TV transmissions and waiting for a game with Wales in Osijek. According to counterpart Vinkovic, the HDSSB club will be restrained for this reason, and for the reason why you colleagues described Boric very, very vividly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17204	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. The first replica of your presentation has a colleague, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17205	Dear colleague Boro. Since here is the first time such an integral text or an integral version of all state officials in the Republic of Croatia, including us as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, but also the President of the Republic of Croatia. Now I don't know, there was this talk about all kinds of pebbles. I don't know what it's going to be like for the President of the Republic of the current, future, when he has a rock in his shoe because the only one, regardless of what the Constitution says, is that all citizens are equal before the law, so probably that analogy and all state officials of Mr. Ministers should be equal in front of that law. I don't know where he's going, maybe in Borov, to make that huge shoe stand over his rock, and I don't know how much he's going to hurt him because he's the only one out of all these government officials with a variety of coefficients, unbound now that he's directly elected, has the right to retire after he's out of office. I don't know if that was exactly the same and the president himself because we're creating regardless, so on this pulsism that we have all the time through the media and I would say one downsizing of the dignity not of our parliamentary representatives, but first of all, we are making a bear service to that President of the Republic because we are allowing him to retire to the sole of all government officials. So, no spokeswoman of the government who came there without a competition, who will be able to return somewhere to a state body or have that job, and I know where this one came from, but first of all, to our dear President of the Republic of Croatia whom the citizens have chosen we are now making a bear service. No one else but him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17206	Thank you. Reply to the replica of his colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17207	My colleague Vinkovic, I wouldn't want to talk about the President of the Republic. As Mr. Shuker said, he's an institution and who's going to be President of the Republic tomorrow, 10 years from now, 20 years from now, so I wouldn't talk about it. But once, while his colleague Bago was working on Croatian TV, he asked if I agreed to remove the cars of parliamentary representatives so that they could not park cars in St. Mark. I said yes, I agree, but Mr. Bago you work on Croatian television says yes. And where do you park your car when you come to work? So he says in the yard of Croatian television, there. Mr. Bago, a journalist has the right to his parking lot in the yard of Croatian television, is he, and Mr. Assembly MPs or ministerial assistants should have paid for the clear public garage or his parking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17208	Thank you. The replica of counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17209	Here's my colleague Grubisic, as you paint yourself, you said this was a peaceful afternoon. And it's a quiet afternoon to spice. I have now actually figured out why the HDSSB is abstentioned in the ability of parliamentary deputies to return to the old workplace. I mentioned your colleague once today. Your colleague Mr. Drmic should be back as HDZ youth president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17210	Please! The answer to the replica, please calm down there. Reply to the replica of his colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17211	Thank you very much, colleague Vuksic, for noticing this well, but it says there can be another suitable place for the employer to schedule it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17212	Here, a little laugh at the end. We've exhausted the debate, the individual debate. The final word of the Minister of Labour. ... I know you're having a little fun at this hour, but let's finish this point. [[You can't hear it.]] The final word of Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17213	Madam Vice President, honourable MPs and deputies, the government is proposing laws. That's right. Representative clubs can also propose laws. That's right. And then we'll vote, so what we think is right we'll vote, what we don't think we'll vote on. So much for who's proposing the law. If something's arranged for volunteering, so can I, it's so well known that while I was a parliamentary representative I worked for two days on KBC Rebro, five days there or vice versa, that I had a contract with a clinical hospital center. I could do it because I worked there. And why is it that someone else who isn't in KBC who's the same parliamentary representative as me can't do that? Let someone explain to me where justice is and where equality is. Thus, we are creating a legal framework with this so that all of this is possible for teachers and professors and mayors, with the mayor returning to the workplace from which he came to the mayor's post. Therefore, this legal framework allows. So with this way, we're correcting one illogicality, which is that some of them were more privileged, some less. On the other hand, this law provides the possibility for the parliamentary deputies to choose either this or this. No one will drive anyone unless you're satisfied and you don't want to accept it. Ha, no problem! We've given 6+6, so after that, if you don't find a place of business or go back to your job right now. But on the other hand, it is not a good article of the law that says that a special agreement between an employer and a representative, i.e. a state official, will regulate the rights and time and timing and everything that goes with it. Therefore, the employer has something to say. On the other hand, it's clear that there's a government that owns, where the government is in the majority, that the government can do it by law, so by law you're going back to a certain automation. But again with the agreement. So, if we talk about schools, Professor, the teacher will sign an agreement with her principal that she will return after one term or after two, but that's the deal between them. We provided a legal framework. Therefore, this institute can be used and does not have to be used. As far as the private sector is concerned, we cannot intervene, nor do we want to intervene in the relationship between the employer and the employer. It's a risk for us politicians when you go into politics that maybe... and his place of work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are again creating a legal framework here so that the private owner can sign a return agreement with his employee. He can, but he doesn't have to, but we gave him a chance to. So far, it's been volunteering. If I like the employer, I'll come back, if I don't like it, I won't come back, and on the other hand, it was quite the opposite that created the uncertainty of people in the private sector when they discussed in the Parliament. This is how they'll know I'm going back to that job if I have an agreement, no matter what I'm talking about, because the agreement is signed when you come to the Parliament, not after that. So you have one certainty that you can keep saying that you don't have to think about it, and what if I say something that I'm going to go back to, whether that employer will see me or not. So the opposite of what was trying to impute there. As far as we're concerned, we've already chewed things up, and we'll probably chew on how many management directors there have been in the entire term. They were clearly coming by competition, but don't tell me you chose someone who came from the street and said here I am God's day, I'll be the director of a certain administration. The competition was, people appeared clearly that there were also staffing and that these people were elected in the competition, the public competition but clearly distributed public competition. And it's fairer this way, people have been elected to the post of deputy and assistant, along with the minister will be here and my deputy Mr. Stubelj will leave together, there will be no one left in the ministry. The speaker will go, and the chief of staff will go, and the assistants will go, and not that we're generating a variety of consultants, and here's an example from my system at HZMO, and there are dozens of consultants who don't know who they're consulting, but that means that in that part of human resources, it wasn't very good, and it wasn't working the way it should be. So, you go, you come with the minister, you go with the minister. And the part that is, and I hope that we get to that position that would be good enough and good enough for this country, and that's what level it's going to be, and what level it's going to go to. Not that when a new set comes and once it's all changed. Eight years was enough to do that, we see how much the public administration has grown from 2003 to today. Therefore, there would be a lot of staffing. Let's let that part of the ministry that's professional do its job, and that part that's politically coming and going with the minister, among other things, the spokesman. Gredelj – I think it is unfair to call the current government about Gredelj's bankruptcy, while at the same time forgetting what has been going on for the past 4 years, which was done in HZ. Why is it that the HH in which Gredell was part of did not give the work to Gredell but was giving the jobs we know and in what way, now there are some trials. Therefore, I think it is hypocritical to call and put into the same basket of people who are now in suspense in Gredeli, and this is the reason why this country was led and the way that Gredelj was led. The beam will work, the beam will build cars, the beam will build locomotives. Maybe the ones with a little less number, but they'll build on. And calling this government for something that's been done for the past four years when it's obviously been robbed and brought Gredel to the point where there's half a billion kuna of debt not good at the moment and it needs to be looked into the truth. And for the end, this is not a privilege this is the right you can take and you don't have to take. But with these laws, we put this right in the legal framework because this state is the state that needs to be regulated because the state needs to function at the level of the law and that everyone has the same right, and here you yourself have confirmed in the discussions that this right has not been granted to everyone equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17214	Thank you, Minister. We have five replicas on your exhibit. First, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17215	Thank you. Come on, my colleague Drmic may be back somewhere, but I don't think any more Lesars would want to be union president. It's an answer to Mr. Vuksic, but it's a different story now. However, the ministers did not answer two very important questions to me. Has a bear service been made to the president of the Republic of Croatia since he is a state official and that, after his term of office has ceased under the Pension Insurance Act, he can retire? On the other hand, by reading the current rights and duties of MPs, each MP therefore, after the end of the term of office, has the right to receive the full salary of those 6 months, so 6 months half salary, so probably that it is written here even though your assistant, someone asked it from here from the bench, noded his head that he would only have these 30 days to apply from the end of those years it was not defined by law. This isn't really about any right or service to all these MPs. It's just a matter of selling fog. And personally, I would not like to see what happened in the past when many government officials and even one CNB governor became a consultant at a bank that bought a bank where several billion dollars were spent not to mention all those officials who thus did not protect the interests or Croatians, they had no rights like the MPs at the time could not retire, etc. but they did it in a very human way. I am afraid that this would not be a practice of all future meetings of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian Government, because the laws should primarily protect Croatian citizens, but also protect those who pass such laws. And these laws can't distinguish between government officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17216	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. Minister Miranda Mrsic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17217	So no bear service to the president of the present or in the future has been made. The president has a choice, can activate a request for retirement or can return to his post. So, I don't see any problems. I think it's now politicizing that obviously has some other purpose, but I wouldn't discuss it. And as far as the rights themselves are concerned, it is very clear to you in the law that if you read correctly, this right must be activated within 30 days or lost. If you're 6+6 you didn't activate,... Therefore, the law states very clearly, therefore, that these are two rights that can be used. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17218	Thank you. The replica has...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17219	... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17220	You can explain that to your colleague Vinkovic later. Please welcome fellow Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17221	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'm going to do to the Honorable Minister about the part where he talked about the fact that the former government didn't carry out the tenders properly, that we've excavated that state administration. So maybe I'll ask you some questions, maybe you'll find it clearer. We as a government, as the former government appointed expert supervisory committees, you turned them into political supervisory committees in the term of office of your government, after a lot of pressure from the public. Secondly, the directors of the administration were other civil servants, and in your explanations, you only turned it into state officials' debates, but here I am asking you, where are your former directors? They're all your officers today, they're writing you laws, they're responsible for the legality of every ministry's work. All these former directors of the management appointed by the HDZ government because the government had the opportunity to appoint and resolve those same directors. And what did we get? We got 120 and some new assistants. At the coefficient level, it's when you sum up everything that we had as directors, with directors plus seventy state secretaries and 15 ministers, when you add up their coefficients then and now with these assistants and deputies that are over 140, 150 you'll realize that you spend more, that you have less efficient management. I told you that an assistant in charge of over five hundred local self-government in regional development and a man simply can't make it. I understand that, everyone who's done it knows that. And all they do is try to work with those service chiefs, and they're former directors. These are the experts who passed the public tender procedure, who had an interview, who gave their data and only then after checking, after the check that was mandatory were appointed to the directors of the administration. And that was said then, we ended up professionalising the state administration and that should be a guideline for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17222	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17223	But here's a new government new opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17224	Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17225	Well, if that were the case, they'd be blooming roses, but that's not the case. So when we talk about directors, directors are employed indefinitely, therefore each of them had the right to find their place in the system. Some found a place in the system, others, some left. So those who were politically appointed left, therefore, because they did not find themselves in this power now. Therefore, it is fairer to say they are called deputies, ministers and are called assistants, by leaving the minister leaving and by leaving the entire set and thus we will ensure that Croatia respects the expertise in the service. And when we talk about how many you are, how many have been employed in the ministry, then we need to see how many have been employed in 2003 and how many have been employed by 31 December 2011 and that is the measure of effectiveness. On the other hand, it is known that the public administration is as it is, is ineffective and ask the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You were 8 years old to fix it, you failed, this government will succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17226	Thank you very much. Replica has a colleague named Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17227	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, I wouldn't be replicating you if you weren't so casual and a little boldly talking about how the former government conducted the contests. In fact, you may have forgotten or didn't even know that it was something that was accepted in the negotiating positions in the negotiation process, which is depolitisation of the state administration. And just then the law came, passed as one of the criteria in the negotiation process, so where it was held as political functions only the highest functions of ministers and state secretaries leaving with a change of political option, and in order to professionalise the state administration, all other jobs were the affairs of a civil servant, of course high or higher rank. It is said that it is more honest and transparent to hire someone and bring them by personal choice without any criteria of public and no known criteria for selecting a minister, than to carry out a public tender that had established criteria and conditions for that place and the possibility of access to all citizens of this country, so not to a particular circle or certain political circles, to all citizens. And as you say, that's where it was cadrevirated and dialed, I don't know how, but everyone who joined the competition and was unhappy with that choice had the right to protect, first within the ministry and then judicial protection. So he could check that these criteria were met. Now, the following happened, so that a far wider circle of people entered the political circle, so it did not depolitize the state administration but rather vice versa. And not only that, but the number of officials has increased, and the number of officials has increased, because as these former directors have said, they remain in the ministries as chiefs and in fact the number has increased for all those officials or assistants.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17228	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17229	As you yourselves know, the number of State Secretarys was equal to the number of members of the Parliament, so so is the parliamentary representative. So look at the statistics and you'll see what this government has done, it's done an absolute depolitisation of the administration because it's no longer chosen by the grandmother and uncles. As for the level of deputy ministers and assistants, he is still being held for the places he needs to be, and as far as the level of ministers and assistants are concerned, they come with the minister and go with the minister. And every minister aims to keep those people he works with professionally because it will allow him to run the ministry much better, not only to be professional but also to respond to what they need and that is to say that the ministry is functioning it is seen by where Croatia has come from with such a way that it has been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17230	Thank you. Replica has a colleague Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17231	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I'm surprised you're wondering about something, which is that you found dozens of advisors in the pension system. I'm surprised you didn't then advise the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina Ms. Lovric why she needs 14 advisors. Of the 14 advisers, imagine even 2 are for the question of pensioners, and some of them even received additional funds under the contract for work for consulting services that is nowhere in the world, so I’m surprised. He was a councilman of the gentleman concerned, one of the advisers for the question of pensioners provided consulting services imagine for the purpose of developing a professional analysis of the allocation of loans in which the county participated and were placed through a business bank. It wouldn't be any wonder if that gentleman had never but never done anything about the loan. That's how the State Audit report says what a man did. I expect, indeed, when you are already amazed by so many advisors that you advise your local leaders that what will cost them so many advisors, 14 advisers cost Sisak-Moslavina County more than a million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17232	Thank you very much. And the last replica of Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17233	You tell the minister who comes with the minister and leaves. Well, that's only understandable in a democratic world, but I'd say it's not enough of a minister unless the word "minister" implies politics by itself. Who comes with politics with politics should go. If that were the case, then the state administration would not have increased by 60,000 since 2003, by 60,000 people. These are close to HDZ people, these are your dependants, or if you want to, these are the genius frames that went through the competitions, as we hear HDZ has been carrying out the competitions that best meet all the criteria and that's why they came to the state administration. I remember, and you probably did the Trogir case when the trogiar mayor Vedran Rožić and his wonderful mayor Vinko Brkan hired 30 football players in the municipal company for city money, public money. I guess all 30 football players, as HDZ now claims, went to a public competition and no one else from Trogir could have gone to that competition because no one else could do municipal jobs as well as those 30 football players Vedran Rožić and Vinko Brkan. That's how public tenders were held. And finally, ministers should ask if the famous Buljbasic has passed in a public competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17234	Thank you. I apologize to my colleague Shuker and he has a replica. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17235	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I mean colleagues and colleagues when we talk in this High House that we should know how to use the terms. There's no public administration. There are public services and civil servants and deputies. Comrade Stazic, there are 64 thousand people working at the State Administration. No, no, I'm just saying I'm replicating the minister, but I wasn't saying anything to you, so don't say it to me either. So you don't even know what they're talking about, but it's going to be 60 grand in the state administration for 64 thousand people. The state administration is aware of what, no police, no customs, no judicial police, no customs and tax administration, the state administration numbers 8.5 public service people. So education, health care is somewhere around 180 thousand employees and there's been an increase in the number of employees here since 2003, and you know exactly why, but 60 grand isn't. But you can check with Mrsic at the Ministry of Finance of some 17, 18 directors are one or two members of the HDZ. Everyone else was chosen on the principle of expertise. And another thing when you call a public tender everyone has a choice to complain about. And I'm sorry that you like to push it like this and use the hard words, you said someone robbed someone. So let me know what it is about the Dioki Colony who paid the 19 million? You were talking about HH? Dioki's colossium? You were saying someone robbed Gredell. If a loan obligation is made if a building is a loan then it can be seen but in the end there was a debate today on the work of the state's attorney's office. So if you know someone robbed Gredell, you're either as a minister or as a citizen, you have to report it to the State's Attorney's office. It's not good on a subject like this to use hard words but you very often like to use them but I say here's a fresher example you don't have to go on in history is the dioki's colossium that certainly doesn't value 19 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17236	Thank you very much. Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17237	I'll just say three things. The 2009 deficit of Croatia 10 billion, Croatia's 2010 deficit, 15 billion deficits 2011. 15 billion... Mr. Shuker, I've been listening to you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Deficit in three years of Croatia 40 billion. Whom we put in charge, where we spent it, what we did for Croatia, we owed Croatia in three years 40 billion and that's the fact and that's something that, that's numbers, can't get away from it. Why are we showing ourselves differently is on your soul, but definitely Croatia is in charge of 40 billion in three years, and we had no idea about it and that this home didn't know it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17238	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on the motions under discussion. ... Please clear yourself outside the assembly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17239	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, PZ No. 118. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law." Please let us know who's in favour. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour, 27 against and 3 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17308	We'll discuss another item on the agenda tonight. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Social Labour, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 158 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the act by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant like to explain the proposal? Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Mr. Darko Ledinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17309	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Social Labour. Since 1 November 2011, the Law on Social Labour Activities, which regulates the social work activities carried out in the field of social care, education and education, health, justice, family and intergenerational solidarity, civil society, religious and humanitarian communities in other activities, as well as as as private practice, and has prescribed that the social work activities are performed by the masters of social work, the masters of social policy and university graduates of social work, as if the same applies to graduate social workers and graduate social workers and to social workers with completed school for social workers. That law lays down the conditions for the exercise of social work, the termination of the right to perform social work and to carry out social work as an independent professional activity, as well as provisions on professional training of social workers and traineeships. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has established that there are reasonable reasons for the adoption of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Activity of Social Labour. One of the reasons for the adoption of this law is that the applicable Social Care Act came into force after the Social Labour Activity Act, which addressed some relevant issues of social care activities, which include social work activities differently and more fully than the Social Labour Act. Furthermore, the applicable law does not specify how the cost of the work of social workers performing their own professional activity is determined when social services are paid through State budget funds. It has also been established that the provisions of the applicable law on the authorities of the chamber have been substantiated and some questions concerning the composition and business of those bodies are governed by the proposed law. Indeed, the applicable law stipulates that social workers are compulsory to join in the chamber, so membership in the chamber and the authorisation or licence is a condition for their self-execution of social work activities, and the chambers are entrusted with significant public powers. The proposed law therefore confers additional powers on the chamber referred to in Article 9 which is supervised by the Ministry responsible for matters of social care. Furthermore, the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers was founded on a founding assembly consisting of 26 delegates of the founders of the chamber, and they chose the bodies of the chamber that are now working in the then elected composition. Since the members of the chamber were all legally established social workers, it was necessary to prescribe a convocation of such a composed assembly that the existing statute of the chamber would comply with this law and choose the authorities of the chamber. In order for the functioning and efficiency of the Chamber of Social Workers to be established as soon as possible, which is the application of the applicable law to us, we are making it very difficult to assess that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. And at the end of this opening argument, it is necessary to say that social workers are only the heart of the entire social care system, so it is the obligation of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth to create the most important link in our system the conditions for one quality work, for the professional organisation on the most democratic principles and that this is precisely because quality professional organisation enables a better quality and development of the social system in the way that we would all really want it to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17310	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17311	In addition to this heart of social care in any case, Mr. Deputy, there are many units of local self-government that have far greater standards than these censorships that apply to the level of the entire Republic of Croatia, far more and more, censorships and standards in their social care programmes. However, there is certainly a need to mention units of local self - government that not only complement the entire social care system but I would say and upgrade it. And in these times that are now coming, given that we face these problems more and more daily, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not satisfied with what I would say is not rights but possibilities, so the Republic of Croatia to help those citizens who are among other things by increasing VAT and increasing the prices of heating, gas, etc. brought into one I would say a very difficult situation where practically in these 20 years, so I'm not talking about just these few months missing the entire middle layer of Croatian society. And on the other hand, we have one illogicality, so the same government is proposing for this chamber of social workers a binding membership fee. On the other hand, probably having and wishing to be controlled by Croatia, the agricultural chamber abolishes the mandatory membership fee which, in my opinion, is in one hand and understandably not that it wants to help those who are engaged in agricultural production, but rather wants to be controlled by those who were most on the roads and streets and were protesting for the difficult situation in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17312	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? He has a colleague, Zoran Vinkovic, president of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17313	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. The Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government at its 9th session held on 19 September 2012 discussed the draft law and, following the opening words of the proposing representative in its debate, pointed out that the law requires the law to define the obligations of the Centre for Social Care in order to avoid possible misunderstandings and transfers of responsibilities to local self-government units which also have certain obligations to provide social care to citizens. The issue of mandatory members of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers and the issue of control of the work of private institutions and social care homes is also highlighted. After the debate was held, the Committee on Local Self-Government decided to propose 9 for and 1 abstention to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this Act amending and supplementing the Social Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17314	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. Club of the Croatian Retirement Party and colleague Višnja Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17315	Thank you very much. Honored vice presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, social work in the Republic of Croatia is an activity of public interest for the Republic of Croatia. Social work is a systematic activity. It is based on modern scientific and professional knowledge that promotes social change and solve problems in human relations and empowerment of people in order to increase their well-being. Taking into account the scope of the scope of the social work activities as necessary, the legal arrangement of the conditions for the performance of the activities, the content and the way they operate, as well as the standard of education of the responsibilities of professional supervision of the work of social services and social workers is imposed. The Social Labour Act entered into force on 1 November 2011 and refers exclusively to the activity of social work. That law prescribes who performs this social work activity, so it is the masters of social work, the masters of social policy, university graduates of social work, as well as social workers with completed higher education for social workers, and social work as independent, professional activities. Provisions on professional training of social workers and traineeships are also laid down. The law also prescribed that the ministry responsible for social care affairs and the Croatian Association of Social Workers set up a Croatian chamber of social workers. In implementing the provisions of this Act, the founder of the ministry then appointed their representatives who adopted the Statute of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers at the founding assembly held on 16 December 2011, so the Chamber was registered with the Social Register of the Commercial Court in Zagreb. The Chamber's congregation and bodies are still operating today. By observing the reasons for the adoption of the amendment law and the additions of the Social Labour Act, it has indeed had to come into force in view of the entry into force of the new Social Care Act, which has regulated important issues of social care activities. The proposal for a law proposed by amending and supplementing the laws more strictly regulates the activities and powers of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers. The chamber for regulating the work of each profession, as well as the professions of social work, is extremely important. The activity of social work deals with promoting social justice, protecting human rights and equality among all members of society. This profession is extremely demanding and responsible, and therefore social workers feel the importance of developing their professional competences to provide them with timely and quality reactions to the needs of citizens and their users. Association in a professional organisation such as the Chamber will certainly raise the quality of the work of this profession, because it will finally build and define the identity of the profession itself, set standards, and promote education, and prescribe the evaluation of their development, supervisory. Here it would refer to what the esteemed Deputy Competent Ministry said that social workers are the heart of activity. I fully agree with that, definitely social workers are the heart, they're the network, they're the bond, they're the ones who gave the best they could to everyone in their profession, but this is an extremely difficult profession from the people who are the most sensitive users to those who find themselves on the edges of society and those who really need advisory work, professional assistance, etc. So, the chamber that was founded and which is now changing according to the new law is very important and it is important that it function as soon as possible and as best as possible. I would just like to point out that this law regulates and independently performs social work activities that are strictly linked to the chamber by a number of provisions. Thus, the chamber has significant public powers, the granting of a solution to the renewal and withdrawal of the authorisation for independent work, the management of the directory of professional supervision of work carried out and the like to which administrative oversight of the ministry responsible for social care activities must be applicable. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, which would be required by this law to amend and amend the Law on Social Labour and Regulation. In addition, this law will clearly regulate the issue of the affairs and composition of bodies such as the Management Board of the Chamber, the Supervisory Board of the Assembly, the President and others. Therefore, it is necessary to prescribe a convocation of such a complex assembly that the existing statute of the chamber will comply with the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Activity of Social Labour and to choose the bodies of the chamber. Therefore, social workers are required to join in a chamber which is also a condition for the self-execution of social work activities. Since social workers are able to carry out their own professional activity and social services are subject to State budget funding, this law determines labour prices through the approval of the chamber. All the above is justified and necessaryly regulated by the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Activity of Social Care, so we fully agree with its adoption and the Croatian Party club will support the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17316	Thank you, dear colleague Fortuna. Next up is SDP club and colleague Ana Comparić Devcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17317	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, as we have heard from the opening presentation of the Deputy Minister, there are amendments and additions to the Social Labour Act. There are several reasons why these amendments and the additions of the law are being passed. It is one thing to comply with the current Social Care Act adopted after the adoption of the Social Labour Act and to increase the power of the Chamber of Social Labour, although even so far the chamber has very important public powers and many other issues it deals with. First of all, I want to point out that it's so-called. ‘licence’ means the decision to grant and renew and withdraw the authorisation for independent work. It also manages the social workers' directory, manages social workers' registers that carry out private practice, conducts professional supervision of the work of social workers, monitors, provides and professionally monitors the activities of social work, determines standards and normatives for the social work activity, determines the lowest price of work carried out in private practice, adopts an ethical code, monitors and monitors the implementation of professional ethics, represents members of the chamber, prescribes content, deadlines and procedures for permanent training of social workers, cooperates with other professional associations, cooperates with state authorities and units of local self-government as well as regional self-government, determines disciplinary measures for facilitating or serious injuries to work responsibilities, conducts disciplinary actions and expresses measures for disciplinary infringements. From everything I have stated, it is very clear that the chamber has a very important role to play in organising the work of social activity. Furthermore, what is important is the fact that over a year it will also conduct licensing. In order for social workers to be licensed, or to obtain their licence, they must join the chamber. The current Chamber of Social Workers, as it says in the proposal for this amendment and the addition of the law, was therefore held with 26 delegates. The intensity of these amendments and the addition of this law is therefore to enable the congregation to expand its work, i.e. all social workers, not just 26 delegates, to make up the assembly. According to the available data, Croatia has about 800 employees and therefore we find it extremely important that all social workers participate in the work of the Assembly itself as well as in the work of the chamber itself, i.e. the selection of the body of the chamber. And I want to say a few words about the chamber itself. The Croatian Chamber of Social Workers is an independent independent professional organisation with legal personality and public authority. Its role is to represent the interests of social workers, improve the activity of social work and ensure that social work is properly carried out. We believe that social workers and a profession that is extremely often criticised in public but very, very rarely praised. Given the importance of its activity through a number of segments in society such as social care, education, health, justice, family, civil society, religious and humanitarian organisations, it is evident that this is one profession that needs special attention. If we try to define the work of social workers in one sentence, we could say that social workers help people to overcome social hardships whose origins are very different. In all of the above, the SDP believes it is extremely important to join such an important activity in the chamber of social workers with the aim of its proactive action in promoting and advocating change, promoting the profession of social workers as well as an important promoter of social justice and social development. And what we consider perhaps and most important is that the chamber as a roof organisation can and must participate in the creation of social policy in the Republic of Croatia. From this point on, the SDP will support amendments and additions to the Social Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17318	Thank you, colleague. Next up is the HDSSB club and counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17319	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. This government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has been operating for 10 months now, has increased the number of ministries compared to the former Government of the Republic of Croatia, and social care has also received its own ministry called the Ministry of Social Welfare. Earlier this ministry or this activity was together with the health care activity in a joint ministry called the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Somehow, it coincides exactly the foundation of the social worker chamber with, to say, detachment of the Ministry of Social Welfare from the Ministry of Health. So, on 16 December 2011, there are 26 delegates, and we have heard that social workers have about 8 hundred in the Republic of Croatia, 26 of them decided at their meeting that, or the founding assembly, to form the Chamber of Social Workers of the Republic of Croatia, or the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, we can enter the genitals. As they say, so is the Croatian National Bank or the National Bank of Croatia, which is out of the question. And not only was it formed specifically the Ministry of Social Welfare, but also social welfare institutions, to say divided into the welfare center and instead of the 20 institutions that existed, are now formed 50, 60 centres, 80 welfare centres each of which has their own headmaster, so the manager has his secretary, so I don't know what everything is not, car or I don't know what's available. And they're called welfare centers. Social care is indeed an activity that is in these times, in these times to say severe crises, and I would say poverty of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is one concern, a service that, to say today not only material support but also the comfort of many. And which is really necessary and necessary for a growing number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Not only is the perception of poverty constantly growing among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but this perception is real, reality, reality. The poverty of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is growing. In this regard, I will not mention that in many social care centres there have also been deviant behaviours that have been linked, however, and with authorities in regional self-governments, and then the money used for the assignment of wood, etc. And yet there were social care centers involved in it, and it seduces you however you want, so there were also criminal acts. And that's what we talked about, though, I mean in the last term about all the possible deviations that happen. Perhaps it is good that, just by setting up, the foundation of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers to make certain things better and to support and that the HDSB club is to support this law precisely in the hope and faith, so promoting social rights and creating social policy that this chamber, which, newly founded, can satisfy. I am a member of the Croatian medical chamber that has been working for a long time and here is a repeat of what I have seen today in 2 times. First of all, in the opening presentation of the deputy minister himself who read here from page 3 to say, "Social workers must associate."that's what it says. We just heard they have to team up, so they have to join. These two verbs have to or adjectives are necessarily like this sometimes to a man who thinks freely a little bit hateful, perhaps harshly said but here. So we too had to join the Croatian medical chamber that I am a member of today. And then he had written down the rights of our doctor, the rights that are there in the statutes of the Croatian Medical Chamber in order in 4 or 5 points. The right patients, and perhaps the user of social care, are in many, many, which are also listed in the chamber's statutes in a much, much wider range written and printed on several pages. The Croatian Chamber of Social Workers therefore decided on the basis of decision 26 employees in the profession to have their own chamber, which will be called by the minister's decision as it states in the final articles, so after obtaining the consent of the Minister of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce... within 30 days, he will convene a chamber at which the bodies of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers will be elected according to the statutes, and these are the bodies of the chamber president, the chamber president, the chamber assembly, the board of directors of the Chamber and will have its statutes. The Management Board consists of 9 members of which two presidents and vice presidents and 7 elected for 4 years, based on a vote in the assembly itself. It also states here that the chamber will take care of it, therefore, to evaluate the work and those who are professionally private let me say so in these matters of social care. That they will license as doctors are licensed, we have every 6 years renewed the license, as decided by the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, so they will also have certain deadlines of relicence for the renewal of the licence and evaluate any complaints or other events that will take place during the work of the chamber itself and which will take place in the centres of social care. It is clear that healthcare and social care are activities that are partly intertwined, although social care takes care of elements that concern other aspects of legal, financial and all others. So I personally support the establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, but I kind of think that this is such a cornerstone of my mind that it is also related to the separation of the Ministry of Social Welfare from the Ministry of Health, so two ministries were created, it was created to say a little divergence and that this is related to it. I hope and believe I will try to believe that this policy will not take place in the chamber itself in the decision-making process and everything that makes us as noble as you said the noble goals that you listed in the Croatian Medical Chamber will not have the influence of politics or politics. In this faith, the HDSSB Club will support this legislative proposal on amendments to the Law on Social Labour activities with the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17320	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. The replica of your presentation is a colleague of Vishny Fortuna's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17321	Thank you very much. I'd just like to remind the Honorable MP of the connection when you said they were institutions, and then they're centers again. Yes, that's true, but by law in November 2011. In fact, social care laws turn centres into institutions. It was for the profession and for the activity really very, very bad and we are all here when the session of the Parliament began how much this has caused in the field of activity big and big problems. And it was precisely the new law that was passed in this term among other reasons of urgency and that again from the office there are today's social care centres. And I here responsibly say that the welfare center is the base of social activity and without the centre I call it regrettable because I've been in social for too long so I dare say it's production believe it. It's the hardest job and in this activity it's an extremely difficult job but without a social care centre there are no specialist there are no other activities in the field, and as far as the chamber is concerned, I'm happy that we have our own chamber and I'm sure there will be no place for politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17322	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17323	Comrade Fortuna, fortunately, my dear, here is my colleague Fortuna I do not know the difference between the Centre for Social Care in Nova Gradišca and Slavonski Brod compared to when there was an institution in Slavonski Brod and there was some branch office in Nova Gradišca. So neither the number of social workers increased nor the expertise increased, so nothing else remained the same except now that we have two directors, two secretaries, two vehicles for them and nothing else. So also in other counties, let's say I don't know Sisak or Glin or Kutina, Novska is now 4 there. I don't know how many there are? Six of them are here to help me out, my colleagues. Or I don't know in Vukovar-Srijem County, in Vinkovci, Vukovar, Ilock, County and Island if there are 5. So I don't know what you're seeing if you're saving the formula unless you've set your staff up at the centers instead of 20 we've got 80 now, and 60 you've set up your SDPs or the human cooze, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17324	Thank you very much. Next up is the HDZ club and colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17325	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Representative of the Proposer, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will be abstentioned on this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Labour Act. It is in the assessment of the situation and the issues that are covered by this proposal that the HDZ disagrees. The Proposer's formulation that the current Social Care Act came into force after the adoption of the Social Labour Act, so he addressed some relevant issues of carrying out social care activities differently and more fully than was done by the Social Labour Act is accurate only as regards the time of adoption, and everything else is just a mere formality. The law adopted by the HDZ government was in effect only a few months, from 1 October 2011 to March 2012, and its positive effects could not be recognized. He was very good because he included the most vulnerable groups of citizens and set three goals: better directing of cash fees, better use of social services and guaranteeing minimum living standards to the most vulnerable groups. The law passed by the previous government set up a systematic reform of public social services, introduced two new rights. He was one of the products of a project to develop a social care system, which was attended by distinguished European experts and funding from the World Development Bank, and you came and you threw it all in the trash. Except for the firing speed, it's even more surprising the ease that you've done all this to. You're jealous of making a new text that has a consequence and the one we're discussing right now. The law you passed did not serve you to raise the basis for support, assistance and care allowances, personal disability. This did not improve and protect children in the absence of parental care, children without parents, working unemployed and so on. He served you as an excellent cutting point for the heads of the previous principals. Of course, for you it is completely irrelevant that these are exclusively people who are elected by law and must have high professional equipment, 5 years of work experience in the activities of social care, etc. At the welfare centres where the only candidate in the tender procedure was the current director you are tearing down the competition because you do not allow God not to get consent from someone who is not from your Kukuriku family. Well, after the cancellation of the contest, only when a similar director appears will you take action. What's going on in these facilities all this time is that you don't care. The highlight of hypocrisy is that you call it a different and more fully organized social work activity. Unfortunately, that's not the end of it. The same law you've passed you don't apply. For example. Article 121, paragraph 11, provides that the directors who have not been chosen so far are to be offered a working contract for jobs for which they meet the conditions. It hasn't happened yet. You chose new ones, and those who were until yesterday were now in wonder because nothing was offered to them. Will these people who have installed the best they have in their business and will find themselves in the same trouble and become clients of the welfare center. These changes and additions well and detailed all social work activities, since a social worker in direct contact with a user encourages a way of solving the problem, as it advocates better social policy, the skills it has intervened in crisis situations, helping in different stages of life. I wonder when the objective of general social work is to help and support individuals, groups and communities, empowerment and support of people who are socially vulnerable, whether the number of employees of social workers in Croatia today should be twice as high in view of the situation. Today there's no category of citizens who don't live in fear, there's more and more ex-employees, one-by-one working unit falls under commitment, the standard falls, there's more angry citizens, you've raised VAT, you've raised electricity prices, you've increased gas prices, all over the back of a small man. Threatening layoffs in state and public services, the move of feathers leaves public perpetrators out of work, triggers cuts in school salaries, health care. You are threatening to abolish the line of island transport, abolish the mail, disbursement of subsidies to dairy farmers, pension reform, new taxes. Those who do something today and hire are often controlled by feeling like criminals, not entrepreneurs. The state is the first to charge for labor. And I'm asking a respected minister who's not here tonight, where you were when the government passed laws like this, regulations, when it proposes these implementations and what kind of social policy you stand for. Is it possible that Minister Linic has convinced you that the VAT increase is precisely in the interest of entrepreneurs or the first vice president Cacic that we will be better off, just to cut cell phone bills or give up smoking? Comrades and colleagues, let us leave and do not waste time changing definitions for the better. By adopting this law, dear colleagues and colleagues, you will raise your hand and confirm that one of the basic objectives of social work is to represent neglected social groups, to achieve a social just society that allows all its members to live a decent life. How this will be achieved and how it will be achieved by a social worker when the first person of social policy stands with his hands cut and allowed all these changes, raised his hand for them and we have never heard her voice on these topics. Isn't she the one who should be the first to stop the tidal wave of dissatisfaction of the people. Earlier I read on the Internet, today the first Deputy Prime Minister declares: everything that happens in Croatia resembles gangrene or diabetes, at first glance you can pretend it's nothing, but the organism is literally falling apart. And the Ministry of Social Policy deals with definitions and chambers. From everything exposed, the HDZ Representatives Club will remain restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17326	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in an individual debate is counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17327	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Now, since it's already this late, I'll try to be brief, but allow me a few words on this subject. I would first of all take this opportunity to publicly congratulate this House on their work and express my heartfelt support for all social workers and social workers in the Republic of Croatia. These are people who make a hard and honorable call. And I deliberately make a call, not an occupation, because being a social worker or being a social worker is a call. It's a way of life, it's something to install all of yourself in, just like the honorable professions of doctors, teachers and others. Therefore, I have met with the work of social workers and workers through my professional practice and can say that these are people who are committed to solving the most difficult problems of our society, of course in accordance with the law, existing mechanisms and legal solutions of our country. I see this law first and foremost as regulating the work of the Chamber as additionally as the Deputy has said, so norming the sub-normized parts of the Chamber. And allow me just a few more words about my thinking, which is why professional organization is important, and which is why I think the chamber system in this case is important. So, above all, the activity of social work is extremely responsible. For this reason, it is necessary to network social workers and workers in order to exchange experiences, to improve themselves professionally, but it is also important to license those mentioned. Why? It is because they come into contact with extremely difficult situations, with vulnerable members of our society, so they enter families that are not functional, trying to protect children, mothers, protect against the parents of abusers, etc. etc. Not to describe all these complex situations. I think these people really need to know what they're doing, be familiar with the regulations and, of course, have some ethical code of work that would, so my suggestion might be that it also prescribes the Chamber. Therefore, in this law as well as all the laws which, in my opinion, will improve the work of social care in the Republic of Croatia will have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17328	Thank you very much. It's Tatjana Šimac Bonačić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17329	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, I think this is a very important law for both social workers and also for areas where social workers work, and this is education and health care, social care, then local self-government. So, a very wide range of areas where social workers work. In fact, it's a very important chamber. I'm surprised my colleagues now Bora has no one who said he's a member of the Medical Chamber. But I haven't seen any pleasure in that membership. I must say that I am a member of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine and that this chamber is, in fact, representing patients as end-users, as well as employees who are members of that chamber. So let's just say now I'm going to look very briefly at the problem of corruption that is currently being expressed in health care. Well, it's certain the Chamber can't process, but the Chamber can always advocate the most severe punishments. Of course, discipline can be given and even withdrawal can be said. Of course, they take the court when the court makes that decision. Therefore, I must say that these laws introduce new standards with mandatory permanent education, renewal of work licences, supervision of applied ethical standards, etc. All of this will actually contribute to social workers investing in their own education and will, of course, increase the quality of their work. So, ultimately, they will always be satisfied with the service users, that they will always receive adequate timely, or effective service. It is also interesting to know that private practice can be introduced. Why do I say that? It's precisely because it's in the area so far that I can tell Mr. Deputy that there's been a chaos. Here, too, should be, and besides that, social entrepreneurship can be promoted in this way. Why? New employment is possible, but no longer on the burden of the state budget or the budget of local and regional self-government. Therefore, this can result in a single game being created. So far, there is a monopoly of public institutions. In this way we can actually look beyond the labour market. Furthermore, we have the introduction of new types of services that can be provided by social workers. So there is also a high probability and possibility of deinstitutionalisation precisely because it is aimed at a new reform of social care. Here so far, as we know, social workers have very often not been motivated for their work. Why? Because most of the time they did office work, bureaucratic work being sued for their own work, and in this way they didn't actually have any kind of schooling initiative, some kind of education. However, they can say that this very Law and the Law on Social Care are fundamentally changing the social care system, and they are partly affecting other systems in which social workers work. That's why I'm really surprised why such a law can't be accepted. And what we heard from my colleague Branka talking about this law to me is really not clear how it can be accepted. And one more thing about the Chamber. The chamber is very important because it will create a tighter structure, it will bring together all those workers who deal with social work in one place, and it will be regulated by law which again raises it to a higher level of work itself, i.e. we come again to the end user. We'll have more satisfaction from the end-user. I can conclude that this Law, in addition to the control of the introduction of order in the profession, leaves room for the creative action of social workers for self-employment that I mentioned earlier, the creation of new forms of services in the domain of social care and social planning. So, ultimately, this approach should create new social workers who will make that love for the man who made them decide to actually get into their colleges they will be able to heat up their whole lives this way because this is not just a job, this is a life call you feel inside or you don't feel it. That is why I really support all the efforts in connection with this law and, of course, the Social Care Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17330	Thank you very much. And last in an individual debate, colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17331	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister. Well, here we have heard a lot today about the social work activity, that this is an area of social care that really includes broad activity both in the judiciary and in civil society, in intergenerational solidarity, religious, humanitarian communities, education, education, social care. However, the general objective of social work is to help support an individual. It's something that's based on groups, individuals, communities, above all on raising a better quality of life. Unfortunately, this assistance is increasingly needed by our citizens. I was talking about a child's extra charge the other day, and I'm just going to repeat that data, that in August, 216 thousand 405 users were there, and that it was immediately increased to 409 thousand 189 children. So more and more and more each day is increasing more and more users. What does that tell us? That more and more of our households are harder to live, that the receipts are less than 1633 kuna per member of the household, and that each day more and more employees. Someone said today in the debate that nearly 500 people are getting more unemployed every day. So when I started pulling out some data and preparing this debate when this law entered the procedure, there were 310 thousand unemployed. We're reading these days that 317 thousand people are unemployed, and this law has entered the procedure on September 10th, let's say it's almost a month. We see the number of employees increased. In fact, today’s data that you can read on the website of the National Statistics Institute says something that does not go into favor, which will fill social workers with as much work as possible, unfortunately administrative work, will not deal with their work, cooperation, assistance and family assistance and community. Why? The latest data from the State Statistics Institute say that the prices of goods used for personal consumption measured by the consumer price index in September compared to August increased by 1.4%. So, they appreciate the basic things people use. There will be even more difficulties, there will be more social assistance users in our cities and municipalities. The city from which I come Sisak every day in the city services, in the Department of Social Activity, at the Social Care Centre, you meet more and more people who come looking for a solution for social assistance, which is normal. The vague situation around the refinery causes people depressed, ironworks, HERBOS ma almost all major factories are shut down or on their knees. And what do they have? It's these people who now have a 37% higher price of heating, they've grown VAT, they've grown by 1.4% and that shopping cart, they've collected other energy and electricity and gas, and what they expected from those investments, the announcement of investment in employment, we see that we haven't received it. Entrepreneurs do not invest in investments, there are no foreign investors, but unfortunately colleagues and colleagues have more and more who cannot provide their children with the most basic. That's what we meet every day in big industrial cities like this. This is a law that regulates I would say these proposed changes regulate some technical problems. Article 1 has been improved by existing provisions and may be good. However, the current law has prescribed the establishment of a Croatian chamber of social workers, according to law, that social workers must be joined in the chamber. In this proposed law, Article 9 of the Chamber adds even greater public authority, which may be good. Nothing would be unusual if it were a chamber. The former ministry and the Croatian Association of Social Workers, whose representatives adopted the Statutes at the Founding Assembly on 16 December last year, thus consenting to the statute was then given by the Minister of Health and Social Care, the authorities of the Chamber and the chamber were elected to the Court Register of the Trade Society. In this proposed law, what do we have? We have an article 11 which adds five more new articles or sub-members to Article 27 which re-regulated the selection of chamber bodies. The bodies of the chamber are, quote, "The Parliament, the Management Board, the Supervisory Board, the President, the other bodies established by the statutes. The structure and bodies of the chamber and their composition, method of choice, rights and duties shall be governed by the statute and other general act of the chamber." I was quoting the article. It would be nothing unusual if this proposal had not already selected the Assembly, if not for the chosen bodies all the arrangements in the statutes in the new proposal were discussed what had already been established. So, the fact that 26 envoys chose and adopted the statutes, elected bodies, they were representatives and founders of the chamber. What do we have now? We have this to say in Article 12: "To adopt statutes, the selection of the body of the chamber requires most members present in the chamber assembly. Someone said we did, a colleague of Fortuna said almost 800, if not more social workers who would form a chamber assembly. Imagine a body that has 800 members, because they all form a chamber assembly on this. So, when they adopt the statute and the bodies need most of the members present, I ask myself one question can 20 members of the chamber come and 11 select all the bodies and confirm the Statute? Sure, theoretically. What then is the difference between these 26 who have already done all this, except for my fear that I have the right to say if this is not another change in the law in order to re-election in the chamber of social workers, to choose a new board of directors, a new Supervisory Board, new bodies. Could we have aligned the statute without touching the bodies, the congregation, the board of directors and everything else? This is the fear that we, at least to me personally, are experiencing in this proposed law, is what you said, that only in reason 26 envoys have chosen all the bodies, I have come to the fact that less than 26 can come to the session of the assembly and which was called out of them 800 choose the full regular bodies of the assembly and bring the Statute. Here, so I'm asking if maybe this is still about changing certain people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17332	Thank you very much. The final word is by Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Young Mr Darko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17333	Thank you very much. Here, although I am among the great fans of the Croatian football team myself, although I probably have the longest time to go to the game, when we talk about everything we heard today, I still need to take a few more minutes of your time, at least the few of you who stayed in this assembly. When it comes to this, I'm going to start with this last fear, so we're probably fundamentally different. What we are proposing and opening up the possibility of a chamber as if it were an important professional organisation, that social workers who are absolutely the most important part, the heart of the welfare system. And to whom it really should not restore the dignity that belongs to them, but to have full confidence in them and not to doubt on the basis of rare isolated examples where not all, I do not know, perfectly, that it is some social profiteers or social criminals because it is indeed one of the most demanding professions, one of the most demanding calls that works extremely hard and responsible work in extremely difficult and responsible conditions. That with the most socially sensitive groups of people who are often, as these people say, they are the last chance of life. So our social workers who are in the majority, because they are mostly more often women in these difficult occupations, and in this case, social workers are also people who do a great job on the ground for not too much pay, not for some privileged terms, and very rarely are given some recognitions for their work. Most often they find themselves in the interest of the media when there are irregularities or abuses, or some charges against their account that are often shown unfounded, and that they are often pre-convicted. But, therefore, when it comes to the choice of the chamber body, what we advocate is that each person has the right to vote, so that every social worker and every social worker of them is as many as possible, given their professional qualifications to join the chamber, has the right to choose because that is a sufficient number, a small number of people not to have to choose delegates. And I'm saying that's one of the worlds that we stand for, that every vote, this man participates in the selection of people who will professionally represent them without being delegate systems, where of these 26 delegates, 13 were from the social work activity and 13 from the ministry. In fact, they chose between 26 who will be what and who will do what. Let him choose all 800, if 20 of them come as far as possible, then the waist, then all 800 of them say what they think about their chamber, about their profession, and they don't care. And it's an important message, but I think too well of social workers and workers to even fear that 10, 20 will come. Because having a social worker chamber for the first time is a great opportunity, not only for the system I was talking about, but for them, that the waist that was never sufficiently affirmed is finally affirmed. And that's the greatest value of all of this that we're talking about today. I am sorry that there is no honourable representative of Mr Grubisic, because here I owe him 2.3 information. So the ministry from which it comes is called the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, so it is not called the Ministry of Social Care but is called the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. Furthermore, I must disappoint him, 80 newly established social care centres, which we are extremely proud of, does not mean, unfortunately, 80 new secretaries, official cars or certain privileges, because in our system you know they don't have the directors of the center or the directors have no private secretaries, they don't have official cars to use, they have no cards, but they have a good part with the job of the director or directors also work on the job of a social worker or social workers, so they stay working in their basic profession. So there are no 80 new offices now, there are no new 80 privileges, but there are 80 centres that we went to hand-to-hand to users who don't have to go to the center of the county because only in the former offices could any certificates be made, and not in the branches, and we should say that there are no new employees, there is no increase in employment, there is no increase in costs after 80 newly established centres, so there are no tunnels or paint tunnels in the social care system we have already done something, and we all agree that social care centres are basically said the colleague that drive, that part of our system. It was very important for us to create a prerequisite in the decentralisation of Croatia and local social planning for these 80 centres without secretaries of official cars, because unfortunately or fortunately there is no social care system. I can do this very important job that is directed at users. Yes, one possibility that this could have happened is that for the first time in 20 years and a few years of Croatian history, social care is not an impediment to a ministry because when we were either with work or with health, then it is such large systems that social care was not talked about so often written by the Minister of Health without even writing social care. Yes, we are extremely proud that we have had the support of both the Prime Minister and the Parliament and everyone else in the establishment for the first time by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, which enables the development of a system of social care in a completely different way than it has ever been. When it comes to the great social care law that lived for several months, here I am sorry that my colleague can't answer that too because she probably went to football, I must say that this is an example of a law that had a whole series of great solutions that unfortunately were not implemented in practice. And since the Social Care Act is a fundamental law that provides for socially sensitive groups, when you have a fundamental law that is not enforceable in practice because there are no conditions for this, then these people who don't have time for experiments and waiting because it's about people who are often on the verge of existence, children, old people, powerless and similar in a great threat, and we, indeed, have to adopt a new Social Care Act in the shortest time solely in the interest of our direct users so that we don't be in a dilemma whether we do it by law and inexecutively or do it against the law to protect end-users. We have passed a law that is enforceable and that we, we promise, we constantly improve it, we improve it, and we will often be able to hope in this assembly that we are all improving these laws together because they are aimed at these very people we are talking about. What we are doing today is very simple and easy to describe, so we are building a social system that is just, focused on the necessary and timely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17334	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll make a statement about the bill later. Tomorrow at 9.30 we begin with the Final Proposal for the Energy Act. Goodbye. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-16-0.u17335	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Activity of Social Labour, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 158. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please let us know who's in favour. Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. Score. I note that 87 votes for and 27 abstentions have been adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the activity of social work in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you. Dear fellow MPs in the Croatian Assembly, dear colleagues, good morning. Can we continue the work of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament? I suggest we combine the discussion of two materials, two points of the agenda. It is the final proposal of the Energy, Emergency Procedure Act, first and second reading, PZ No. 167 and Final Proposal for a Law on energy regulation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 181. Do MPs and MPs agree with this proposal? No objections. I suggest that representatives of clubs on both proposals in a united debate can... Yeah, 20 minutes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Club representatives are entitled to 20 minutes, and respected colleagues and colleagues in a separate debate remain with us for 10 minutes. Thank you very much. - Final draft energy law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 167. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill of law into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall include the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. - Final draft law on energy regulation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 181 The government is also a legislator. You've received the bill of law into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall include the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This proposal was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative please further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister and Economy Minister Tamara Obradović Mazal, please.
