ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25213	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. We'll continue the debate today. We will continue to work without a break today, and I propose that we bring together a debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, because it is a similar issue. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 221 - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 219 The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, the opening statements under both laws will be given by Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25214	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act extends the provision of Article 10. By way of derogation from the taxation of benefits paid as grants from the European Union funds and programmes by means of a body accredited by the European Commission in the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the mobility programme and other programmes, and for the purpose of education and professional training in accordance with the European Commission's Financial Regulation. On a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System, Article 9(1) point 4 is also complemented. The Income Tax Act is the reason why amendments to the Pension Insurance Companies Act are under way, pensions are paid on the basis of individualised, capitalised savings, which will introduce new provisions on the purchase of pensions and pensions and are the same in tax terms as these amendments to the law are equal to the purchase of pension under the Pension Insurance Act. When paying employers, they are untaxable, and when paying, they are taxed as well as other pensions from the first and second pillars. A significant newspaper in this bill refers to income from an independent activity no longer established on the basis of estrangement of more than 3 properties or property rights of the same type over a period of 5 years but determines income from assets and property rights on the basis of such receipts. It is also an exception that in this case no income is taxed from the sale of land with an individual area of up to 250 m2 and a total of up to 1000 m2 and all with the aim of supporting the land circulation programme, which encourages, among other things, investment growth and competitiveness of the economy. Certainly the main newspaper of the bill's proposal is the introduction of a new report, so-called JOB forms by which taxpayers are obliged to deliver tax and non-taxable receipts to the tax administration. The aim of this proposal is to introduce a new data collection system through a unique form that would replace existing forms and those of them 6, which are forms of tax administration ID, ID-1, ID-2, IDD, IDD-1, IP and Regosa RSM form. This unique form would collect all information on receipts, whether or not they are taxable, means collecting data on the income of natural persons, data on the tax and tax paid and taxes, contributions to compulsory insurance, and other receipts such as copyright fees, sickness benefits and the like. The form would normally be submitted in electronic form via e-Iscen, thus making it easier to carry out logical mathematical and formal controls. In this way, the exchange of data between the state administration authorities and the Tax Administration, HZMO, HZZ, HZZ and Regos will be faster, more efficient, more accurate and improve data quality. Employers receive a unique way of reporting through one form and by electronic means by simplifying their business. Employees may at any time at one place verify whether their employer has reported them to compulsory insurance, whether the employer pays all types of taxes and contributions due to pay those other benefits. Also, in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions of Problems also refers to the application of this JOB form so that in a simpler, more transparent way, we are talking about the reporting system, meaning replacing more forms with one form so that we do not have different data between HZMO, HZZ, Regos, meaning all state bodies that let's say manage similar data. We're going to get them on one form, and then actually the data exchange between these bodies is going to be much better, more quality, we're going to have unique data. So the point is, and as far as employers are concerned, this will be simpler for them, that they won't have to fill out different patterns every little bit. So the main point of this Law on Contributions is actually the possibility of using such a pattern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25215	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Party of Work, colleague Nancy Tyreli and colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25216	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy, Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here's another amendment to the Income Tax Act and teaching on what Mr. Deputy said, maybe it's a little disturbing when we say that in order to collect data more effectively on the income of the natural persons we now place these 6 forms in one. Here's the taxpayers are more than happy about it, but I still think I need to say a few words about it. When we say that the Tax Administration has launched this initiative in order to introduce a new single form that will enable the collection of united data for several institutions in one place, then it would be good for this communication between the tax administration and citizens to be truly two-way, so that we do not always drive in a single direction with the intention that the Tax Administration has everything in one place, and that citizens still still have to wear certain forms and contributions from pension to health, etc. So this is certainly commendable higher and higher than it's going to be simpler. But it would also be good if the IRS had already had some kind of exchange of that information, that is to say, automation continues to pass it on to those ministries and to those addresses where it will benefit the citizens. This must be one of the important tools to say that we will succeed in putting all those powerful social aids in one context of logic as well, so that at every moment we can see exactly who has the right, as much as why. And I wouldn't really want that one form to be just for one purpose so the IRS has everything in one place, but to really be for the reason that we finally start working, to know what and how and how. Income from estrangement of more than three properties of the same type or more than three property rights of the same type over a period of 5 years shall not be considered to be more income than self-employed activity but rather income from assets and property rights. So we're talking about the competitiveness of the economy, the circulation and we've brought up to 250 squares, or up to 1,000 squares without income tax. It's the same, same good for a lot of things. But I would also like a reminder of a situation that often happens especially in small municipalities. We have a situation where we have such small particles of agricultural land, that this agricultural land is then rounded up and then sold at a full, higher price. If we round agricultural land to make agriculture more competitive then it's certainly commendable. However, I would also like to stress that it would be a task and tax administrations, among other things, that such possible transactions are being maximum controlled in order not to abuse exactly those positions. The deputy did not mention anything that this law complemented Article 63 in such a way as to stipulate that in the process of examining the source of the assets, the source of the total assets of the natural person acquired from 1 January 2005 will be examined. Therefore, from the date of entry into force of the applicable Income Tax Act. We had income tax far before 2005. The government now with this amendment to this law that we recognize that the IRS has not done a job that it has to do in the last seven years. Therefore, each taxpayer received a temporary tax ruling, was cut into tax for a given year on the basis of the tax application submitted. The tax administration, in accordance with Article 63, is also bound by non-permanent work, independent activity, property and capital rights, insurance and other income, as well as other non-taxable incomes and claims, to compare with data on fixed and immovable and other assets acquired, as well as other expenditure on natural persons and their obligations during the tax period. The comparison could be carried out on the basis of available data, data communicated by the taxpayer and data from other sources. The question now arises why we are only retroactively returning, I will say only by 1 January 2005. By tax reform in 1994, we established a new income tax system that characterized several basic elements. First of all, he dominated the so-called. the consumer concept of income taxation, which means that income tax was charged by those parts of income intended for consumption, while the parts of income generated by savings and investment, namely dividends, interest and all other capital income were excluded from taxation. On the other hand, there's a so-called. the income concept which defines a much broader tax income, i.e. all types of income that can be used for consumption, including capital income. So, if we are talking about the entry into force of the income tax, then here is an open question to me, which would certainly be asked by the proposer later to answer me why we decided on the date of 1 January 2005. It turns out that we really have the one and we apply in our practice, "Who's yawning, yaming, yaming!". Because according to this, since 1 January 2005, we can't determine the origin of the property, or this possibility of saying so, we only limit to those things that don't go out of date, which are, say, privatization. And so, we all witness, however, that we have a lot of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were not in conversion and privatisation but also before that on January 1st 2005, acquired a certain asset for which it was originally largely questionable in view of what they show in the Tax Administration. So here's what I'd like to say about this later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25217	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to me being attached to my colleague, Nancy, about the draft law amending the Law on Contributions. The legislator states that the transfer of data to an individual insured person is leaving the current way of showing the aggregated accounting. In our own explanation, and here we have heard that this way will introduce greater discipline, better charge as well as greater control, that these are the reasons for the amendments to the law. Clearly, in this part we do not doubt and clearly this part of the reasoning has its own justification in any case, but the question is that even in the present way how control could have been done and practically the total amount of contributions from the aggregated amount of accounts could have been determined only that someone had done so practically and that someone had controlled it. With this way where we go in individual ways of calculating contributions, I know that's not the intention of the current promoter, but I just want to warn one particular danger that tomorrow, eventually, someone wouldn't remember, so if they weren't paid contributions for the individual worker that at that time until contributions were paid, because there will be records that he will then not have the right to health insurance. On the other hand, the question arises in this way if each individual, and we know that individual accounts depend on the amount of the salary, and that is the amount and payment of the contribution, whether or not someone will remember, and then on that basis, depending on the size, the amount of the payment of the contribution will not also determine what level of health care is. Clearly, I hope this part won't and won't come to anyone's mind, but in some ways I'm warning just because of some of the things that have been going on so far. Because we know that somewhere here, it's going to be seven months now that in applying the amendments to this law where the rate of health contribution is reduced from 15 to 13%, then when we were reducing the rate, we were saying something completely different. We've been saying that there's going to be an economic discharge and today we have a completely different picture. Here we have 349 thousand unemployed, our health care is in a major financial collapse, there are hospital debts. It has been said that debts will be covered with new loans and debts, clearly that any smart person who knows that this will be a higher price that will be paid for that part of the debt than that covered with existing contributions. Employers claim that there has been no reduction in their costs related to the 2%. It's on one side, but there have been some other burdens and practically nothing happened. What they warn about, and in that part it was not made to exist in an economy of some 245 loads that it did not touch, and in that part it did not disburse the economy. On the other hand, around 20 countries in the EU are taxing the financial sector, and we did not take the financial sector from the kuna. And it turns out that all this burden of crisis is borne by citizens, and clearly that is the result that we are on a scale of very poor people, and that somewhere 20% of citizens, that means close to a million citizens, is in one almost unexplainable situation and of that number is somewhere around 600 thousand pensioners who have a pension below 2 thousand kuna. And in the end, I would just go back a little bit to this law, and that's the article of the 13th law where it's said to be considered, and here we haven't heard it in reason, the proposer didn't refer to that part of the law that regarding the law of the solution given by the former Institute of Health Insurance and the Peace Fund are practically bound through an administrative procedure illegal and now this amendment of Article 13 wants to in some way create the legality of these solutions. Here the question must be asked, I would like to join what my colleague Nancy was saying, which is that it is clear from this that there is one non-functioning of public and state services, which is why certain damage occurs, so now before the absolute age of 10 is done, we are passing a law that will have a feedback. Now I would just go back to one part, the Croatian Labourers proposed a law that they wanted to depriving women at the Employment Service who had issued solutions under a certain law and when they came into application of the new law they lost the right to compensation. At the time when we proposed that you depriving this woman, we received an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in this case the legislator of this law, that the proposal for a law suggest that its feedback that this provision does not comply with the provisions of Article 90(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which provides that the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the national authorities and bodies which have public authority may not have any feedback. And now I ask myself how the proposer once gives such an opinion, and the second time in his proposal, he practically proposes the reverse action of such a law if he felt that certain proposals were anti-constitutional then I ask myself whether we will not have constitutional suits and problems in the future and further this law because of the ineffectiveness of public administration and state bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25218	It is up to SDP Club and counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25219	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mrs. Director of the IRS, colleagues and colleagues. Here is before us for the second or third time in this term are therefore the amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, relatively simpler according to the applications will cause somewhat less debate but that does not mean that they are less significant or that they will not get more long-term effects in raising the efficiency of the administration of the state. In this introduction, the Deputy Minister also said that this main benefit of this law, so this introduction of a unique form of income, income and contribution that I will talk about at the end of my debate, will actually cause many benefits that we are not even aware of today, but in any case it would be important for the efficiency of the administration as well as to bring the administration closer to the citizens, as well as facilitating the lives of employers, but as I said about the pattern itself later. In addition to this main benefit, the GRO of our income tax laws is said to be a matter of harmonisation with the EU, so according to this proposal, it will release taxed receipts paid as grants from EU funds and programmes and for the implementation of the mobility programme. It is also what is an amendment and on the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and the Peace system to ensure that this bill equalises the purchase of pensions and pensions, so that in the tax context these changes are equalised. The third no-important amendment, there has been a lot of debate on it on the parent board of finance, so the income from the independent activity is no longer determined on the basis of estrangement of more than three properties or property rights of the same kind... of 5 years already, on the basis of such other revenues, i.e. the income shall be determined by income from assets and property rights. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The exception here is that this will not apply to individual land of all types of land, so that's where we found up to 250 quarts or a total of 1000 square meters. It also extends the obligation to pay tax returns to a jury account or current account, and what is novelty, and therefore information on the payment of non-taxable receipts, the most frequent receipts of the social transfers of local self-government are also added to the provisions on the procedure for examining the election of assets from 1 January 2005. Why don't you actually go deeper but I'm saying that's the point from which you can start and what the finance minister was talking about in the first place. And as I was also saying, the main advantage of this amendment and the addition of the law is this unique form of reception, income and contribution. If you think if the name itself sounds too complicated, it's hard to remember it and its abbreviations IOPD is not easy to reach it. So, it's a form that is in the final design of the final form, it's provided for in one law, so it's going to rewrite the rulebook, and then the regulation on the making of this form will be signed by the Minister of Finance in collaboration with the Minister of Labour and Pension System. And as is said until the arrival of the common form itself will be used by the Tax Administration as well as the Croatian Employment Service and the Croatian Pension Insurance and REGOS and therefore the Ministry of Labour and Pension System in a broader sense. The Bureau of Statistics was also involved to make its contribution on what and what data are important from the aspect of the State Statistics Office. So I say, it is said that with the first May of next year, the following forms will be abolished: the ID form is about reports and receipts of non-performing work paid and pensions, income tax, tax and contributions for compulsory insurance in the month of a certain year. It's this pattern, it looks like this, then there's another page, so it's a pretty complicated story. We're sending him back to history. The next form that we send in history is the report on the second income calculated and taxed on income and taxes and contributions to compulsory insurance for a month of a certain year, so-called. The form IDD, so it's about this pattern, it also has a very complicated form and these are instructions for filling out the pattern, so the one that's not too based on it looks pretty complicated and that pattern, and it goes back in history. In history, the IDD-1 form is also going and this is a report on paid salary fees and basics and calculated and paid contributions for compulsory insurance for the current month, it is about this form and here instructions are not quite as simple as the form that employers had to do so far. The fourth to go in history is a report on wages and pensions a little simpler, but it also requires a certain time to meet, so the IP form. He looks like this, it's not all like that commercial. It is a pattern ID1 and it goes into history, this form is quite difficult to fill and the form of the famous R-Sm therefore form of the central insurance register whose full name is the specification according to the insurance accounts and contributions to compulsory pension insurance, so the form on two sides which the employer was therefore obliged to meet for his employees and send them to Regos and then to book it to pension funds. So, a pretty complicated story, you saw even visually I printed those patterns, they're turning into one that will use all the institutions that I initially listed. And so that's the bottom five I've counted five key advantages that this form is going to bring about these changes and additions of the law. First, he said about this introductory minister, therefore, from the perspective of the Tax Administration, that the introduction of this form will, in any case, improve the collection of both taxes and contributions, allow better control of the correctness of the payment of the contribution, income tax, cut-offs and, in any case, more up-to-date, is therefore far more up-to-date on the daily basis of insight into paid receipts and paid taxes and contributions. Another important benefit is that by introducing this pattern will finally acquire the conditions of the base to connect the famous OIB, it will finally acquire the conditions to be far more precise i.e. The most precisely possible final provisions of property censorships since the form will include non-tax revenue, I say, primarily, social transfers from local self-government, which has not been the case so far. In several separate bases you have had a story, now this will allow us to have a shared story and that social transfers that are unfortunately necessary always, and in this difficult time, in particular, to be distributed more fairly to the citizens and families who need it, so the basis for the introduction of the property censorship is created. The third benefit of this form and these amendments and the addition of the law that the Tax Administrations will, for the next year, practically for the next year, benefit for 2014, since 1.1.2014, be able to issue a tax refund without those in exclusively electronic form on the basis of this base without crowd, without teaching the forms themselves citizens will be able to do so electronically as is common in EU countries whose society we enter with 1.7 and which we also seek to avoid this story about the busy 28 February and 1 March. 4.benefit is that this form and information collected from it will be very soon because this will allow a single base to be able to see the citizens themselves through web services in the insight of what the employer is and how he has paid for their contributions and their pension. You know that there have been a lot of problems and very often a lot of problems because of the transition of systems from the 1990s and 2000s, but in any case this is one great... which through web service will, through the restriction that you can see only your payments but through some PIN number that will enable this and in any case enable additional control of the functioning of the state administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And 5 and not least, I think that the amount of this has shown you this story of a unique pattern will make it a lot easier for employers to keep that records they need to keep, that the services they have done are maximum, and the data are far more accurate and accurate and from the perspective of the employer but of course all the bodies of the state administration that will use this. I think I've made enough arguments as to why the SDP club will support these two laws, and that concludes my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25220	Thank you very much. The Republic is owned by Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25221	... Dear colleague Radjenović. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Well, it's great to improve tables and forms that's good news, but what's not good news is, of course, further growth in unemployment, so I took the right only to say that we wouldn't expect the Minister of Labour in this situation in our country to realize that it's really high unemployment and that here by next summer or by spring it's still growing. I think that all citizens of this country, and we here in the Parliament expect active employment measures, maintenance of employment, we expect in some way an answer to the question that this government is going to stop the growth of unemployment with everything that, of course, I am not repeating all the other economic indicators that are negative and which is in some way due to the rise in unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25222	Actually, the replica wasn't on display, but we're going to give the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25223	Thank you, Madam Vice President. That's exactly what I was about to say, but somehow I was half happy that we had lifted this correction to an incorrect quote, and then I couldn't answer at all. So, you really didn't look back on the debate I had on behalf of the club about these two laws, but what you mentioned, even on this administrative road as much as it sounds administrative and boring to you, but as a good employer, it will certainly be easier for people in your company and in the companies that run these vast patterns to be happy on one hand because they will unload their work and it will be much simpler for you or for your responsible people to sign that story. This will lower both you and all other employers, in any case, the impulses and costs you have around this story, and allow the state to offer a lot of arguments about benefits and accurate and correct information and inability to manipulate these exact information to lead both social and economic policy more effectively, not to be as it has been for the past 8 years as you have made your little contribution in the last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25224	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25225	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance. Well, it's a normal thing that every club will welcome if entrepreneurs are administratively relieved of what the intention of this law is. However, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we are open to these few questions. First of all, what may be the biggest problem, and I'm surprised to hear so much about those famous 50 billion debt, but it's very interesting to mention here the amendment to the 2002 Law on Contributions to mention some problems and not to mention that much of that cake is being wasteful at that time because until then, pension contributions were charged to the Pensions Office and you had a pension craftsman, you had a pension farmer. And the IRS when it took over the job, unfortunately, the Government did not insist on taking over the full documentation on debt so that here in this explanation when it comes to this law in 2002 it was necessary to say something about it both for the Croatian public and for all those citizens of craftsmen, farmers and employees in some companies who had a lot of problems when they retired for records and for everything. And why I'm saying this, I'm saying for the reason that it's logical that we're going to support these changes in order not to submit strong forms, but there's a single form that's personally connected, it's tied to the name and last name and to tell you it's inalienable throughout the entire working life, and that's where your pension insurance records your employment, your salary and the basis of that, based on the positive legal rules when you go into retirement based on your pension. Another thing, colleagues and colleagues, these patterns are not in one place. You have outposts all over Croatia, and by these exposures people are applying and they, for example, go from Split to Zagreb to work, this document stays in Split, this document stays in Zagreb and now we come to Regos, which is practically an institution that keeps records for private funds and a second pillar of pension. These four funds are practically private funds in which Croatian citizens, based on the law, depending on which the fund has been decided, pay the second pillar of pension, they care about these funds, all the masters, receive compensation for it. However, Regos annually costs about somewhere, now if I'm wrong, I apologize, but it's somewhere between 90 and 100 million kunas. I remember in the term of my ministry I was trying to keep it all the time to pay those who need to keep records of it, and that is Regos and four of these pension funds because when you look at how much compensation is paid to those pension funds for fund management, then the logical thing is that the Regos who keeps records of all this together gets paid out of the same funds. So that's something that we should simply talk about in this law because these are technical changes to the law, but the technical changes to the laws that I say behind the board hide a lot of traps and a lot of irresponsible questions that can be broken into our heads tomorrow. Because I repeat, this 50 billion-long portion refers to exactly what was transferred in 2002 from these three practically fund-raisers to the IRS without records. The second thing, look at the cost item at the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health. The asset for unsecured persons, so there 700, 800 million kuna per year goes to farmers who once were registered or not registered they paid pension and health, but unfortunately there is no record and they would not, with that basis, practically have the right after 65 years when legal conditions for retirement were created, would not have the right to health insurance on that basis by the state of pay. So not every simplification of patterns is something that will guarantee tomorrow's quality data processing. I think, Mr. Deputy Minister, if these changes are going to take place, then we support changes in the removal of all forms. However, one elemental question arises, whether in 15 days, all institutions have prepared to move on to this and that with the first payouts, they will practically start on 4 or 5 January, so here are the members of the MUP on January 5th to start getting paid. Are all institutions prepared, have taxpayers prepared their programmes from the smallest craftsman and those at least, that they can practically submit new forms with their first payouts because any submission of the form in the current year, which is different from that of the original, creates great problems. Why, because all reports are sent on an annual basis, regardless of whether you received 1 or 12 salaries and whether you had a few other types of income along with those 12 salaries but each report for the individual, especially for pensions, here I am primarily talking about pensions, why, because after 35 years of retirement, when you need to withdraw all that data is very important that these forms are in one place, practically that you can withdraw that you can calculate pension. And if you're going with the form, not someone in the 21st and 2nd month, but in the third, you don't have a consistent year on the same form, and it's very difficult to compare patterns that are not comparable to anything. The new form only contains all the data that can be used by all those who record something, but it cannot be compared in principle to any form. So if you're going to ask people at the IRS, the biggest problem with those I.D. forms was that it was practically recorded that a health and pension contribution had been paid, although unfortunately for some part of the people, it was not paid, and that's something that people in the IRS were against from the beginning, but they simply couldn't change that. So, all those who have accounting by electronic means, which is over 95, 96% of people who deal with entrepreneurship don't buy forms in the National Journal, but the legislator has allowed them to create and print an identical form, they have to make new payout programmes. And what's crucial is that form that goes towards retirement and that goes towards Regos on the basis of the records at the end of the working life will count pensions. That's something to pay particular attention to, because if you lose one piece of information, it's a terrible problem for someone who retires. And now there's something that's a little conflicted with some laws that have been passed on to the IRS and controls over the past period. We are now saying that in some future times, tax returns will no longer be filed, but the Tax Administration will issue a solution to the taxpayer by means of data that will be withdrawn through the OIB. Here when we talk about January 1, 2005, when we talk about real estate and when we talk about real estate. Because the primary acquisition of real estate is the largest amount in the principle that is purchased will offer the Tax Administration to go to control the source of the funds with which someone buys the property. Because those who buy expensive cars and yachts will continue to buy them through companies and will be controlled through companies. However, not according to the tax character is not only what the income tax of the individual is paid to. We have a series of incomes here, and that's why the OIB was introduced precisely because it can collect everything the taxpayer has, that he can see what the profit is from and that based on it in the Tax Administration can check from where the source of income to acquire some real estate and that's the famous red light that's been talked about so much. Today it just happens with a signal that the revenues that are recorded in the Tax Administration, but there should also be talked about the transport of securities, the change of shares, the payment of dividends and a number of other things that are not recorded here. That's exactly why the OIB was introduced. So if we're going to use only this provision of the law to acquire some real estate, we're going to be quite mutilated. It's like telling a sprinter, once you get a pair of shoes out there, and you put an old sprinter on his other foot and you let him run with a sprinter who has the latest sprinters and ask him for a world record. It just doesn't work. So, good intention, but use everything the OIB allows us. And then we come to what was, in principle, the basic principle when the OIB was introduced and it was spoken, which is the control of small entrepreneurs, where exactly the basis of these collected data was practically to come to this in a year or two, that virtually the inspectors of the municipality deal with these small bonds, rather than the control of their incomes by the basis of these tax data obtaining any real estate and anything, if it is contrary to its reported incomes in the previous months and previous years then it goes into control. The second question is how much the IRS is, and how many taxpayers have relevant indicators of acquiring something before 1 January 2005. And to slowly conclude this debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. So, a system was built called the OIB, which is, it just needs to be applied and all that's listed here in the law was practically already done through the OIB without any legal changes. However, this with real estate and the acquisition of real estate within three years can be counted in Croatia by people who are not engaged in entrepreneurial activity, who have three properties and are not the result of inheritance, so they will trade with them. Why is it that if someone has three properties, why do we exclude it from continuing to treat it as an entrepreneurial activity? It's just not good, it's not good. How many Croats currently have three new properties, and why would he do them if he didn't want to sell them or resell them? But building three properties for the market is an entrepreneurial activity. And you automatically put those entrepreneurs who pay whatever they have to pay in an unequal position. In order to build these properties, he must deal with entrepreneurial activity. At the same time someone has, they built a house on their land with five, six apartments and it is no longer treated as entrepreneurial activity but income from property. And yesterday, on the Committee on Finance, we asked to be clarified, given that in this section, land is up to 1,000 square meters and up to 250 square meters, whether or not it's building land. It's one thing to surround a plot. Then it's clear, there's special status and cities when they buy it. So, it's not just physical individuals. There are also cities that, because of the formation of certain parcels, because of the creation of corridors for some infrastructure projects, buy small plots to do so. And it could happen that someone within a mile of the road that works has 10 parcels of 50 or 100 square meters. He doesn't want to sell it and it goes 1,000 square meters. He's selling it because that's where the road goes and he has to sell it. However, if we stick to strict legal rules, it crosses 1,000 square meters and then it is in trouble, and it is in trouble and the one that buys. And that's why I think in this provision we should explain that when we build some infrastructure facilities or something that's of some state interest this situation can happen and then it's practically because we've fixed here either 3 to 250 or total not to cross 1,000 square meters, that we've fixed it. And I don't think it's a good definition of rounding pitches. Because that's the definition used exclusively in agriculture. In construction and entrepreneurship, it is said about the formation, not about the rounding of parcels. Let the lawyers who deal with property-legal relations help me, but this is called the formation of new particles because from the existing basis of spatial documentation and everything cannot form a particle. So, to conclude, I apologize and thank you for your time, for supporting this. We have raised some questions and I think that the Proposer should consider these issues until the vote with quality to make the law better and to use as soon as possible as possible, then you will not need these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25226	Thank you. Followed by the HNS club, Srdjan Gjurkovic and Igor Coleman will share the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25227	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, one of those laws that, on behalf of the HNS Club, can be freely said except that we support it, I am glad that all clubs, all speakers have so far highlighted the positive intentions of the motions for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act. What is most often a problem remains a problem, and these are administrative barriers that hinder entrepreneurs in work and development. This is, of course, about the changes that ensure the acceleration of certain processes, but what I must admit is that I haven't heard much so far, and I think it should be emphasized that with these amendments to the law, especially in these five reports that are essentially summed up to one that one of my predecessors has vividly shown what has been done so far, and what we will have so far in terms of patterns that entrepreneurs need to meet, we get essentially the functioning of the state institutions, their networking not only about the OIB but about the information. But this will simplify all of this to citizens when they ask for certain information when certain institutions go that they do not have to go into one, the other and the third to carry the certificates from one to the next, to the third, to the fifth institution on certain receipts, on certain paid taxes or other claims to say so because in each place they will have that record. So other than the entrepreneurs to whom this simplifies the absolute way of working, this will be important to the citizens, which is extremely important that they will have instant information in all of these institutions and will not have to walk from office to office, carry certificates. And that's one of the most remarkable features that I have to say has not been highlighted in the debate, and I think it's extremely important. So, besides entrepreneurs, it simplifies this to citizens in essence to obtain certain consent and confirmation, without having to walk from the institution to the institution which is extremely good, which is extremely positive what this law essentially brings. Of course, the debate on income on property, property rights related to Article 6 which is determined on the basis of the alienation of more than three properties of the same species or more than three property rights of the same species for a period of five years which excludes this part which is related to alienation of the land of an individual area of up to 250 square metres and the total area of all alienated land of up to 250 metres which does not exceed 1000 square meters has clearly been pointed out by my predecessor, we had it on the board, so here it does not appear in the law but in the explanation it is clear. So it's not just about agricultural land, it's about all the land that's important to ensure indirectly or directly, however we can say growth and stimulate investment by simplifying certain procedures. Of course, it is extremely positive and particularly stimulating that this law also ensures that the part related to grants paid from EU funds and programmes through bodies accredited in accordance with EU rules in the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of activities and mobility under the EU programmes and funds is not taxed. But also what is good and what is good in this law and which processes through a new form, I will not say new forms but the new form is indeed all receipts and revenues can be received regardless of whether they are taxable or untaxable on record. It's one of those facts that are crucial in this coalition government that basically introduces absolute order into not only state finances and budgets, but order in the state, what we often call transparency in politics, and in fact there is no hidden data, there are no hidden receipts because in this way the space is lost, the space of any illegal and black market, black and incomes that are from the black market is being squeezed. So, the HNS club supports this law, and I note once again, other than entrepreneurs, this is important that citizens will be able to avoid walking from office to office looking for certain certificates that have existed so far because of several of these forms that went into different services to simplify their lives and, of course, save time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25228	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President, colleagues and fellow MPs and deputies, Mr. Deputy Minister and Assistant Minister. Very briefly only, indeed, two, three sentences concerning this second part of the debate, which is the Law on Contributions. The HNS will also support this Contribution Act, the HNS will also support this bill, clearly it is not controversial. The fundamental change is this issue of a unique form of income, tax charged and the obligation to contribute with a fundamental principle of showing the data per recipient and we believe that it is a good principle. We think that this contributes to transparency, in any case it deserves our support. What is to keep in mind and what needs to be taken into account because, since this possibility of calculating and contributing to the sum of the insurance base is deleted, it is likely that this change will make more of what is prescribed and the obligation to compile reports during the period when the workers are on sick leave. So there is the possibility that this change in at least the first stage, unlike this previous one, will lead to increased administrative work. The fact is that at least in the first stage, any change in the end at least leads to an increase in the scope of the job and it is not disputed. However, we agree with the promoter that in the long term this is the right way to establish system transparency, to establish clarity of the whole story and that this will lead to improvements and efficiency in the system and then, of course, probably also ultimately to reduce actually the administration in this whole story and therefore we will support this second bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25229	A colleague of Nancy Tyrelli's. Replication to the presentation of fellow Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25230	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's fellow Gjurkovic, obviously you know something that we don't know when you're saying that citizens will avoid walking from office to office to issue a variety of certificates and you're still saying that nobody in their presentation talked about it. I personally asked it to be so. However, we see in this proposal that all these forms are combined in one form for reasons that the tax administration will have better records. I was just about to make sure that it wasn't just about the IRS, it was about the citizens, and if you're right, I'm really looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25231	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25232	Dear colleagues, I am also happy with you that really citizens will not need to walk from office to office because in this way and with all the other actions that the government is doing, the networking of institutions is ensured, which will, of course, avoid what we are looking forward to, and that we will not have to rob the offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25233	Followed by the HDSSB club and counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25234	Madam Vice-President, Deputy Chief of Tax Administration, fear and the twinkling of Croatians do not pay taxes. Here's a little joke at the beginning. The HDSSB club will support these two laws. It will bear in mind that the intention of introducing a larger order in the tax system is also practically not an outdated tax debt, but in any case, we would like to see both laws enter into the concept of retroactiveness, we would like first of all to show concern, given that both laws are likely to end in the Constitutional Court. The intention of this first law is, among other things, the legislation of an initiative for a single form that would cover a number of forms that have been related to the work of the Tax Administration but primarily to all citizens on the receipt of non-performing work, other income, paid salary, pension report, income report, income, paid contribution, tax on deduction, tax, tax, tax, etc. I want to remind you that as citizens almost in every system we received not only forms but we received certain numbers. It was the first unique home number of citizens, my 3001966300806, the OIB I don't know by heart, I had to type it somewhere, etc., but based on today it's unimaginable that only with the OIB, just with the JMBG citizens achieve either your rights or your obligations. I would like to remind you that when the introduction of JMB, which was also supposed to replace all the particular numbers that we had so far as citizens, that we had to pay the indirect single number of citizens. It is also similar with the introduction of an OIB whose entire introduction and entire identification number system has not yet fully revived. I remind you that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia and even those who have dual citizenship also have a identity card that also has a unique number depending on the Police Administration or the station that issued that number. With Croatia's entry into the EU, we will probably have to bring our passports in line, Mr Schucker will see that it will be unimaginable without the replacement of personal documents and we will probably get new numbers at that time. Not to mention all those pins that marked all the cards not only those for ironing but also the entire life of the Croatian citizen is numbered. In a similar way, this was a small recession that spoke about what we as citizens own from a series of these numbers in a similar way is introduced this unique pattern that will really replace all these and, as we heard in previous discussions, citizens will not have to walk from counter to counter but will do so in the same place. As far as we are concerned, we will primarily support this law because of the fact that it will avoid an outdated tax debt and we believe that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of when he has made that tax debt, is liable to pay the tax debt. It's similar with contributions. I hope that since this law applies to all obligations arising from income tax, it also highlights a certain set of real estate acquisitions, alienation as well as certain articles on these areas speak. I hope that the new amendment and addition of this law will not be affected and announced and not yet crystallised and, as the Prime Minister has said, that we are talking about something that we have not seen, and we have seen that we were right when we talked about this property tax as a new burden to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I hope that by introducing such a law that does not have a clear, clean, crystalline future, first of all, for relations within the coalition, I hope that it will not affect the new amendments and additions of this law. Similarly, I hope that you will not introduce in that unique form the position relating to paying a specific income tax for HRT. And I have no doubt that you will be in line very quickly and that one of the new burdens to the citizens will now be the tax on the television receiver, or not only the receiver, but above all, in relation to the level of income tax for HRT. As a Croatian political party, not only regionalally, we think that rather than these controversial ones, I would say individual amendments to certain fiscal laws such as the Income Tax Act, such as the Law on Contributions, such as a series of other laws, and already here is this unconformed tax, property tax of 0.2, 04 and 2% or some other procedures such as the VAT Act. Instead of reducing as stated in the Plan 21, and not increasing to 25%, which would serve the recovery of the Croatian economy to a number of other fiscal laws, we suggest that you deliver real changes to the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible, so not these controversial, individual, minimal environments that will not and cannot be changed at this time because those who have paid taxes and those who have at this moment had the opportunity to sign those agreements which are primarily honest citizens of the Republic of Croatia and those who at these times are at certain economic, financial difficulties that they will, regardless of the unique form and the unique collection of those obligations to the Republic of Croatia, and this law and a series of other laws do not apply to those who I would say to the essence of Croatian wealth of Croatian society, bring to those already known alligator islands not to say to the Cayman Islands. We also believe that you should indeed send real amendments to the fiscal laws in the parliamentary procedure especially those relating to decentralisation of Croatia because all these laws that have been created so far and are increasingly cementing the centralisation of the Republic of Croatia in particular fiscal centralisation and do not lead to fiscal decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia. One of the most important laws is the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government. One of the most important laws has just been this last amendment to the Income Tax Act where it is under the cover of so-called. decentralisations when certain percentages of local and regional self-government units of those famous 1.5% and 0.5% of just a few cities were raised and these richer cities brought some revenue into the budgets while most of the cities had a decrease of almost 90%. There is a tax proposed to amend and supplement the sales tax on real estate. It's illogical for the state to take that biggest cake. There is certainly already mentioned VAT law where 25% is unremembered, I do not know which other state has more VAT than Croatia. Hungary, thanks to that famous INA agreement, had to raise it in a similar way as we did because they had nothing left to own after entering the European Union. So I will just mention an example of neighbouring BiH in which part of the VAT is headed towards units of local and regional self-government. There is certainly this problem because I was interrupted, the change of these latest income taxes where the decentralised funds have been reduced and where many institutions, especially health institutions, schools, public fire departments, have a problem that is related not only to financing decentralised functions but also to maintaining these functions. There is certainly and already mentioned a tax on profit. Since the change has already been made several times and it has been very bad that the profit tax has been paid towards the company's headquarters, but it is much worse to pay the profit tax exclusively to the state budget and it should certainly be distributed between the local, regional and central states. So there is not much time, very quickly I hope that, given that it is the only way out of this difficult economic situation, the exit I would not say isolating at this point but the only way out, the only perspective that we have brought these 22 years of Croatian independent policies, is the European Union. Since it is clear there that almost all countries are decentralised I hope you will understand this message and the HDSSB club and move towards structural changes in fiscal laws, structural changes are precisely fiscal decentralisation, and that means structural change of Croatian society instead of certain cosmetic changes that we will support at this point because we believe that certain things that you are doing are good. But first of all, we are asking for structural changes to the precisely tax and fiscal laws because everything else cannot be completed by Croatia, it can fill the Croatian budget at a certain point when all the funds from the Croatian economy are sucked out of the pockets of Croatian citizens but without that decentralisation there is no shift in the economy, neither in school nor in health nor in life in the Republic of Croatia, whether we enter or not on 1 July 2013 into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25235	Thank you. A fellow Filipovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25236	Thank you very much. It's only short before this assembly session of ours is misinformed on a matter of BiH's budget. This is an unusual way of budgeting BiH, it is shared, it comes all the way to one place, the Management Board for indirect taxation disperses it towards entities and the Brcko District. The BiH state budget is a quotation budget, as much as one entity and another entity and Brcko District so much looks like. There is not a single development position for the BiH budget because everything financed is financed from the entity's budget of both Brcko District and the county budget. There's a constitutional category in the county. They're not a statute category. So, the truth is that the Management Board for indirect taxation is a certain part of the funds, so it returns as Mr Vinkovic said. But this is the pure truth of how, therefore, clears the quotation budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25237	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25238	Dear fellow, I did not talk about the system and the way the Republic of BiH's budget, which was cut off in BiH, was cut off by Croatia because we do not have it. And now maybe I'm going into foreign policy and I'm opening the Dayton question and some other stuff, but I'm talking about decentralisation where a certain part of the VAT goes towards regional and local self-government. I was talking about sharing funds. After all, the fact is that Croatia was a highly centralised state, that at this point several years ago, that ratio was 92% in the state budget, and 8% of all tax revenues were going towards local and regional self-government, including the City of Zagreb, where almost 99% of the profit tax was based because it was being charged at the company headquarters. Today, the ratio of that mini-tax-based Linic reform where decentralisation was promised is now 3% according to local and regional self-government, including the City of Zagreb, and 97% goes into the state budget. We are entering Europe, Europe is a highly decentralised component of all countries located in the European Union, only we, together with some other countries of the eastern border block, will be highly centralised, I speak fiscally, and every other centralisation comes from fiscal centralised. I don't know if you get me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25239	Thank you very much. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired at 10 hours and 38 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And it's time for the HSU Club and counterpart Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25240	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, the Honorable Director, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, right at the beginning of my statement, the Croatian party's club will support, i.e. it supports the adoption of these laws and will vote in favour of these two amendments and additions of the law. What we see here is what it's really about, it's about the intention to advance control mechanisms, that the IRS gets most of the data in one place, that it can control them both by structure and by individual. So that's what's here, which is expected of these changes and additions to this law. Of course, and it is to be supported as supported by most clubs in the Croatian Parliament, at least so they declared themselves. What to say, because there are, will not be resolved by this law, these amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act and contributions. So it will continue to improve the system. What's a dilemma for me in this law is, in law, a pension rent is incorporated according to a special regulation. I have no objection to this being incorporated into this law, but the first pension rent is now being calculated and based on the Insurance Act. In order to become part of the pension system, we will either have to change the pension rent or we will have to change the pension system in the long term. In fact, retirement is something I can pay on my own and use without the obligation to pay taxes on income. So I'm out of my net salary and taking care of my pension. Of course, the state gave its timely incentives, not to tax, but to make as many people think about their future as possible, that is, the moment they retire. And there was a third variant of the pension rent on the Insurance Act where one time the employer could pay off, so meals, so on pensions. So it stopped and only in that part should income tax be paid for that period when it was possible for the employer to pay for pension reform. So, I'm saying there's only a law on pension insurance, and a special regulation that wants to regulate it to be an integral part of the pension system is likely to have to be passed. It's very hard to say that it's very easy to become an integral part of the pension system, because you can use your pension at any time, you know. In this way, some dreams of banks who say and advertise after 50 will be brought to life. We, under the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, or on the Pension Insurance Act, cannot go to retirement before a certain limit or obtaining certain conditions. So, only a pension rent with her can be used when, after the deadline you have agreed on a pension rent either you personally, either in this case, an employer. Because it provides for the possibility of an employer, so he also pays that pension rent and gets a tax relief for it. So I'm just appealing to be careful not to collect, not to put pears and apples together because these are two different products on, so on that pension market. So, we now have certainly the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity, we have the second and third pillars, so mandatory and voluntary savings, and we have something that existed, and that's a lifelong severance that's called a retirement. Is that his name? But it's actually a lifetime severance property whose base is created on the basis of collective contracts and consenting workers to get the substitution of a part of the pension and now the pension rent. Therefore, the system is extremely complex and should work very carefully with it. As far as the Contribution Act is concerned, I'm sure by removing the collection forms we'll get the data exactly per individual. And therefore, any suspicion becomes outstanding, because we get the exact data as much as and when and which employer the insurance company has paid for. And I'm sure that's how the payment control will be improved. However, what I said at the outset that this is an intention to improve control mechanisms does not also mean the obligation that the IRS will now notify, or send, information as to how much someone has paid or how much a contribution is paid for. This will continue to be done by appropriate institutions. Namely, and now pension funds for insurance companies that pay in the second pillar send annual notifications, once a year, to the extent that they have been paid. As far as the first pillar of intergenerational solidarity is concerned, there is a mechanism in which every citizen, every insurance company in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office can take the PIN and check the state of payment of its contributions throughout the year. There is a problem with what Mr. Shuker said, a distinguished colleague of Shuker whom I listened carefully, which part of the data may be in Rijeka, part of the data may be in Zagreb and indeed it is very cost-effective to invest in the HZMO information system that all this data is networked. So, in any case, I think that now it is possible to improve the reporting of all institutions to users, according to those who will be users of the right and we have said that in some way it is the duty of every citizen to care for their rights, of course, society and state, but that we ourselves are responsible to check the payments of our contributions. Another detail that is not urgent, so it is not necessary to install it immediately into the tax system, so tax collection by multiple sources of specific pensions. I was talking about those people, so those Croatian citizens who took a pension from the second pillar. The problem was solved because they chose in most cases, 99%, just a pension from the first pension stake. However, know that they had been paying taxes for almost 2 years in a way that was taken from them 12% or 12 kuna times 12 months is 144 kuna tax on 100 kuna pensions, that they had to pay that money back in a way that the tax application had to be fulfilled. So, more expense than benefits. This will happen again because we will have so we have pensions from the third pillar of volunteering, pensions from the second pillar will come again, we have a lifetime of severance, and even if we install a pension rent, not everyone will be able to charge at 12%, the whole system must be networked that between these institutions, information or the licensing system, that only one place pays taxes on total pension income. Otherwise, it doesn't make sense that I have to pay my taxes with four positions and then make an annual application for some small money. So, my intention is just to point out possible problems tomorrow, I say this is not so urgent, but possible problems that need to be taken into account and these systems need to be networked so as not to complicate the lives of citizens and to be in the spirit of this intention presented in the presentation of these two laws so that red tape in these systems is reduced to the least possible measure. Here, once again, the HSU club will support the adoption of these two laws, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income and the Law on Contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25241	Thank you very much. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25242	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's to the debate, I'll just look back at a few points that you've pointed out through the clubs. The issue of constitutionality relating to this part of Article 63 and this retroactivity, I would not, so we have consulted the Ministry of Justice and there are also, as we have amended the General Tax Law was actually one of the caselaws of the adoption of administrative courts. And so we actually implemented that part, we wanted to actually convey a part of the case law that was brought on the ground. The reason, 1.01.2005. here is explained means the Law of Income Taxation, i.e. we did not want to say too much about those areas defined by some other laws such as you are even better aware of the Law on Conversion and Privatisation for certain criminal offences. So it doesn't exist in that part of the statute of limitations so they wouldn't want to mix those two things. Very briefly, so here for the presentation of fellow Shucker I agree, he opened the same issue which is extremely interesting, and this is a question of funding REGOS and I thank you for the observation in this section for financing REGOS and considering its financing to whoever he provides services and certainly this observation of yours, although not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, we will try to open it through the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, actually, which are responsible for that part of REGOS. There was also an open question of the use of the OIB. I just have to tell you that in this year we upgraded that system where we've updated this data and we're connected to data with the SKDD and paid off these parts and dividends and trading securities so that this part doesn't only apply to part of the real estate and movable property when you buy to record you don't know the vehicle or the real estate, but it expands and extends to securities and dividends. And also, until the end, we worked intensively to report ships of port administrations that have been sending us data all this year we worked and supplemented that part of the database means with other sources. Like I said here, dividends and other sources of property. And we think this time what we said we're trying to build up the system all the time, we're always going forward and upgradeing in this part and the OIB. Also, so what was the intensity here? We just think that this way of reporting entrepreneurs and, in particular, by electronic means, because we think that we need to use these new technologies that in this way we will both be the first prerequisite and that the state administration is more efficient. I agree here and with the Labour Club who said there should be a mutual exchange of communication between citizens and the Tax Administration in obtaining such information, and I think we will actually need to move towards other authorities of the State Administration. I'm just telling you about the quality of the database means that this database is one unique way, that everyone, all the bodies of the State Administration, can have the same information, that you don't have to ask different HZO and HZMO the same data, then they have to one level of data. It all depended on what level of data they collected. They collected one data, they collected other data, and there they simply found themselves to say in that part, and this was the intensity that was the part that made these databases more quality. Or this is a prerequisite to make the State Administration cheaper, or to hire people on value-added jobs, and in fact information and databases informers do their part of the job. So here, that was the main intensity and I thank you for your general support for these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25243	Thank you very much. I'm finalizing the debate on both bill proposals. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25244	We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on income tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 221. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead, who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone with abstention? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 126 votes, we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, as proposed by the Proposer. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25277	We move to - Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for "Addditional financing of the credit programme of export financing", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 220. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have accepted the proposal into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Finance and the State Budget, you received reports at the session. Would the applicant like to explain the proposal? Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25278	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Therefore, the proposal for a Law to confirm the public contract between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the additional financing of the credit scheme was concluded by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 29 October 2012 with the final proposal of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was the basis for an additional financing of the 50m-euro credit programme. Additional funding of the credit programme is a continuation of the cooperation we have with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It means which since 2009 when the first contract was concluded at a amount of 100 million euros. The EBRD shall condition the payment of loans by prior signature and by the power of the guarantee contract under which the Republic of Croatia guarantees the proper implementation of the financial obligations of HBOR borrowers. Therefore, for the purposes of implementing this line of credit on 29 October 2012, the Republic of Croatia concluded a guarantee agreement with the EBRD. The additional financing of the credit scheme consists of loans for financial intermediation of EUR 50 million granted by the EBRD to HBOR, which, through commercial banks, lends funds to social private ownership primarily to exporters and other foreign income companies. tourism for the financing of craft and investment capital. What's very important to say through this credit line is let's say the deadline for this payment. It's a 28-and-a-half-year payout where we have seven years of waiting. We believe that some investment, large investment projects, especially when we talk about tourism projects, are always a problem of manuality. We have a problem of manuality where simply large investment infrastructure projects in one area simply don't have enough time to return. We think that in this particular part of the manual where we actually tried with the IBRD we tried to arrange as long a manual as possible so that these projects could actually begin to effect certain projects themselves. We believe that this amount of 28 and a half years with 7 years starts with this 6-month... which is linked to fixed interest is considered to be an additionally good incentive for entrepreneurs to be achieved through HBOR financing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25279	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. Clubs are coming up, HDZ Club and counterpart Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25280	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So I already see the review of this law clearly and instructed that the bill should be supported, so in this sense the HDZ Club will do so. Given that I am not a financial expert, I have come to this proposal for the reason that I would try to explain to myself, and also to most of the public who are interested in this, on the one hand and on the other, to get explanations and answers to what I am interested in in this proposal of the Treaty Confirmation Act. When we borrow some money from the international institutions of the Republic of Croatia, in other words all citizens of this country guarantee it and I think citizens have the right to be absolutely informed of everything that comes out of the loan. When we say it's due, it's due due no matter how useful we know it's not a question of one government, it crosses the mandate frameworks and will have to be dealt with by all future governments. When we talk about the urgency of the procedure, she's justified and we're aware of it. But I don't think that urgency is best explained. On page 6, it is said that an emergency procedure is needed since the government has already concluded an International Treaty that we cannot change. Then it comes out that the Parliament needs to move as quickly as possible, better to accept that contract and simply confirm it. This Regulation shall enter The constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the government is called upon to justify the non-applicability of this Treaty that the International Treaties concluded and confirmed by the emphasis confirmed in accordance with the Constitution and published and which are in force part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and are legally above the law. Their provisions may also be amended or abolished only on conditions and in accordance with the general rules of international law. When I put an emphasis on the word confirmed, it is clear that this is confirmed by the Parliament, so they are immutable until the moment until the Parliament confirms them and not before. And regardless of the urgency and the justification of that urgency, I think maybe we should have a little better explanation about it. In particular, this loan concerns the 50m euros that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development gives the HBOR for a period of 28.5 years where 7 years of remuneration is included and for the financing of companies owned by a more accurate exporter. For payment guarantees by the Republic of Croatia and I must admit that the formulation of Article 2 of the Treaty itself for each interest period the borrower shall pay the interest rate at the rate of equal to the reference interest rate for the currency of the loan increased for the fixed interest margin, etc., etc. I simply failed to understand what I think the majority of citizens are interested in, how much will the Republic of Croatia end up returning exactly the funds? So my intention is simply to warn here that it would be indicative to tell people who guarantee this loan how much money they'll eventually have to pay back without having to go into any financial dues. It's clear that every money in the crisis is needed, but I'm saying there's a lot of controversy. The terms of borrowing on the global financial market are something we cannot simply discuss and it is the government's job to do as best for our country as possible. When I talk about controversy, we know that the World Bank doesn't give anyone credit out of value, so it's interesting to see how they all prefer sub-projects that commit to international competitions, and which again conditions don't know how to take foreign goods, works and services, etc. But it's probably a story for another topic. What is clear here is that the loan and what is crucial is that the loan will be paid to the extent that it is actually adequately used by those to whom it is intended, therefore private entities, primarily intended to promote exports. It is up to the Government to meet their true best conditions or climate for the use of this loan or other words that it seems to me that the easiest thing to do is to take out a loan in this story and say that it is good because it is addressed to economic operators. The question is, how will the drivers of the economy take advantage of it? It is the fact that HBOR should provide a project aimed at supporting the conservation and growth of exports, the acquisition of medium-term, long-term trade capital and investment financing to exporters and foreign-income companies. To that end, the HBOR should have a formed project implementation unit, operational manuals to be followed and submitted to the international dam, thus a declaration of compliance with the financial regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is necessary to approve commercial banks which will participate in the project according to criteria which must include compliance with the applicable banking laws, operations according to investment credit opportunities acceptable to the HBOR therefore and to the International Bank itself, an orderly independent audit report, adequate resources regarding the organisation, staff, management and all that is important, and in particular I stress the application of appropriate procedures for assessing and monitoring sub-projects in particular in the light of the rules on procurement and environmental protection. The selected banks will be loaned a part of the funds based on a subsidiary contract to be concluded with which banks will place further sub-loans for users of a maximum amount of 10m euros. Of course, the HBOR will have control over this to be all according to the law or contract. The commercial bank which will select sub-projects it considers best must bear in mind and conditions of environmental protection and make implementation and financial status of sub-projects to report to the Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Loans may only be issued to private companies which are exporters or those who generate foreign exchange income and which have a satisfactory financial and organisational structure and resources, or financial stability or other words of sufficient cash during the sub-loan payment period. It is extremely good that great attention is paid to protecting the environment. In particular, when assessing a sub-project of a commercial bank with an assessment of its technical, economic and commercial sustainability, account must be taken of compliance with environmental protection requirements applicable to the rules of the Republic of Croatia and international standards, as well as in accordance with the provisions of guidelines for combating corruption, in particular as regards the supply of goods, works and services. So we are talking about the International Bank's guidelines for Reconstruction and Development. I think it's unwarranted to experience the frequent encounter of private entrepreneurs with weak information about the opportunities they have, whether it's HBOR loans or something similar to the big bureaucracy they need to chew up in order to be able to even look for funds, why the public sector is responsible for a good part. And that's something that needs to be fixed as soon as possible, so maybe this is a chance to do it. It is necessary to better inform potential users of this loan, facilitate their approach in terms of professionalism in assessing their project proposals. This requires exceptional expertise and the incompetence of the employees who have to do so. And finally, one note on the need to achieve synergy. It is therefore evident that both the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund will, in principle, benefit from public investment, so it may be necessary to achieve a greater synergy between these loans to the Investment Bank for the private sector or to extract funds from the mentioned funds. In other words, it is necessary to consider how to combine funds from both sources or projects, in order to make the best use of both sectors, because this only guarantees the general benefit of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25281	Thank you very much. It is up to the HNS Club and counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25282	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So the HNS club supports the Bill's proposal to confirm the agreement on the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for "Addditional financing of the credit programme for export financing", of course it is 50m euros. It should be recalled that the EBRD has already signed a credit line for the financing of exports under 100m euros with HBOR and these contracts and conditions signed with the EBRD are more favourable than the signed credit line. In any event, it should be pointed out that the state of loans of the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee or loans which are with the State guarantee at this time are extremely large and the EBRD is a great partner, we can say freely, the Republic of Croatia. What has been funded by this bank since 1994 has been projects from the emergency reconstruction of health care, road sector, development of the capital market, development of services to support family agricultural economies, technical assistance project, emergency renewal of transport and demining, a project to restore and protect coastal forests, adaptation of the financial sector and businesses, a project to restore Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem, a project to modernise and restructure railways, a technical assistance project related to institutions and legal changes with the aim of developing the private sector, a health sector project, a project to facilitate trade and transport in SEE Europe, a project of technical assistance related to bankruptcy, structural adjustments, a project of investment in a pension position, a project to clean up land books and catastrases, a project to protect against water pollution in the coastal area, projects of social and economic recovery, projects of social and economic development in the field of health care systems, projects in the field of health care and health care systems, health care projects, health care systems, health care and health care projects, health care systems, health care systems, health care systems, health care and health care systems, health care systems, health care systems, health care and health care, health care and health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care and health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health, health, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care On behalf of the HNS Club, I stress only that we point out how much the relationship with the International Bank and this export financing contract is significant and how much is the share that Croatia has as a shareholder and a shareholder in the bank and used to support and help, as well as lending. Furthermore, loans for development policy in the fiscal, social and financial sectors, the judicial sector support project, the EU integration project Natura 2000, the economic recovery development policy loan, the implementation project of the integrated land administration system, the advance for the preparation of the proposed second technological development project, water supply projects in Istria, investment recovery projects, the investment investment project in local infrastructure and environmental protection, the river transport direction reconstruction project, the energy efficiency project, the heat production project, the trade and transport integration project, the additional loans for the river route reconstruction project, as well as the credit programmes for the financing of exports of which is one of these loans. A total of 16 loans with a state guarantee of 6 projects and programmes, 480m euros and 81m dollars, along with 35 public loans and one loan in advance with 29 projects and 5 programmes totaling 1 billion 418m euros and $567m. Total in euros, 2 billion 399 million euros. The relationship between the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and all institutions, ministries, Croatian Waters, HEP, the Croatian Roads for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is extremely important, it is important in that segment because these are loans, loans or donations under still extremely favourable conditions, as in this case, starting at the beginning of 7 years, paying off 29 years, the eurobon with a minimum margin, projects that ensure further development of the economy, infrastructure development and progress of the Republic of Croatia. The HNS club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25283	Thank you very much. And the HDSSB club and counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25284	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Vice President. I'll start with a story when I became a representative, there in January 2008, when a similar contract came before us parliamentary representatives. It was also a loan from the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and it was tied to the port of Ploče. The contract was signed sometime in the 8th month 2007, somewhere ahead of the elections and was spent at the time of the election campaign, and we representatives decided about it sometime in the 3rd month of 2008. So, we were discussing a loan that had long since become a commitment, and the funds were either spent directly at the port of Ploče in 2007 or served for some other things. The colleague cited this series of projects financed by the World Bank, including the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Most of these projects that were to be financed are not completed. A colleague from the HNS also mentioned Slavonia. One of the series of projects also referred to a geodetic measurement that has not been completed to this day. And a number of other projects that are not yet completed and which continue to seek funding and cannot be financed directly from the State budget. So this, and I hope that these money has not yet been spent and served to close budget holes or charge the state budget, that it has not yet been paid, that their payment is pending although this pre-contract was signed on 29 October 2012 and after two months probably agreeing to what it says in English and translation into Croatian which I do not have to say verified and which first of all does not have to correspond to the original spirit of the contract in English. But the fact is that this also says enough that we are firstly forced to take on new credits. We are left with hope, meaning these credit obligations, because this is about 50 million euros, I remind you that the total debt of the Republic of Croatia is somewhere around 46, at this point approaching 50 billion euros, that Latin American countries were also declaring bankruptcy and bankruptcy, creating new states when they owed about 70 to 80 not billions of euros but billions of dollars. At that point, it was a ratio somewhere in favour of the then euro almost 50%. So by slowly entering new responsibilities, we become a country that clearly and in the near future will not be able to regain its obligations. And we need to tell the citizens openly we owe it to Greece. All the things that have been happening in Greece since the fall of GDP, since the decline of consumption to little, from the increase in unemployment, from further poverty, from the introduction of new commitments, new restrictions are very much reminded of all the events and what is happening in Croatia at the moment. I think it is also known to those who deal closely with the state economy, don't you, Mr. Lalovec, that we are moving very quickly and very effectively through Greece or through a few dozen years ago Brazil and Argentina. Since the contract is signed and we are aware at this point that there is no possibility of filling the state budget and obviously that we need to encourage and function exports, to encourage the development of the economy, and I must say that the six-month rate of interest increased for the fixed interest margin is not a small interest, that this is an extremely large interest, regardless of the 28-and-a-half-year maturity. So, this loan will be returned by me at this point, given that there are older representatives here, probably also their grandsons' grandchildren or their children's grandkids. But in 30 years, this will, in any case, be through the charge of the state budget, and I hope that it will stay in Croatia with these conditions, that it will have a job in Croatia, that it will have a decent living and as it is written in the Constitution, it is likely that my daughter and son will return. So our recommendation is as few loans as possible, no matter what interest, and as much of our own activity as possible, as many good laws as possible. And I will repeat that Croatia can not only run Mark's Square and Banski Dvori, but Croatia is running from the local and regional self-government, so let's decentralisation it and we'll have less of these and similar loans regardless of the purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25285	Thank you very much. Replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25286	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In your introduction, you said in your introduction that in 2008, when you became a representative in this House, one of the first points was similar to that of today's 9th, which is the loan of the International Bank, i.e. the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to credit the construction of the Ploca port and that the government signed the loan before the 2007 elections, probably some of the funds were invested in some kind of campaign, and that this credit was spent and we are paying it today. Well, for the sake of accurate information, it's the law as you said exactly signed in 2007 for the integration of trade and transport at the port of Ploče. It is true that the Parliament ratified it in 2008. But the realisation of the loan for the construction of the container terminal began only at the end of 2008 and ended in 2011. And the second part of the loan, we are curding the larger part relating to the construction of the decommissioned cargo terminal, began a few months ago, so at the end of April of this year, and will only be completed in 2014 in view of the amount of funds that must be implemented in Luc Ploče and which will certainly help develop not only Luke Ploče, not only the Neretva Valley but the entire south of Croatia, because it will strengthen the position of Luke Ploče in relation to the VC Corridor, which as you know begins in Budapest and ends in Luc Ploče. Therefore, the loan was intended, it was encouraged. It will enable the economic development of Luke Ploče, and on the other hand will strengthen in the traffic sense of the Republic of Croatia and, above all, as I said, Ploče and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25287	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25288	Well, here it turns out that I was right, dear colleague Bacic. So, since 2008, we've had a deficit every year in the budget. And only a few months ago, so in 2012, this loan started to be used. So, it probably wasn't, I know what it was, I mean, not now. These may be things for some other institutions not for the Croatian Parliament. But only in 2012 began to use this second part of the loan and all the time we had to say deficit in the state budget. Only if you didn't arm the funds in another bank. On the other hand, there is one question that would happen, e.g. Linic signed this by the finance minister at the time is not sure which minister or prime minister signed in 2007, which would have happened if this parliament voted today or Friday when conditions were created, right, when we were a little more in the Parliament, and we do not accept this contract. Then who would answer? So at this point, the government or the finance minister took on one great responsibility in the good faith that he will succeed in getting all the MPs to raise their hands on Friday. And I say the loan has already reached the state budget and is already being spent. Because as a bank would wait two months, as it did not wait for the 3rd month of 2008 to deliver, or transfer, it does not refer to the arrest of the general, it is here that the transfer of funds to the state budget. So, I'm asking a responsible question here and the Deputy Minister who gave power to the Minister to sign a contract like this before the Parliament? That's the key question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25289	Thank you very much. Proposer's closing statement, Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25290	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here I thought this law, which I think is also encouraged, would not create a debate in this form, but here's a very short one. So, as you know, Croatia is a member of international financial organisations and not only are we a member of international financial organisations but we are shareholders and stakeholders and there is a whole series of meanings of these international contracts that actually define the technique of the realization of these loans. So this is nothing beyond legal authority. What's important here is that I wouldn't want to hear what my colleague Vinkovic said if we were going through Greece, I wouldn't and God forbid we were going that way. However, Greece is in much more difficult structural problems and now it also has a very high amount and a public debt of over 150%, we are not going to say 50% but there are big differences and we all work really not to do that. However, here what is important is to say why this loan is important to us, as you may know in 2008 when the financial crisis occurred and there was a crisis in banking. And you know it was very difficult after that to get any credit for the entrepreneur. And let's say it continued last year when the EU adopted a certain regulation on the adequateness of banks' capital. So you had a simple withdrawal of capital from Croatia and simply all banks just to satisfy the regulation of capital adequateness withdrew into themselves and simply did not place loans on the market simply. And this is one of the causes of the economic downturn because the sources of funding towards these entrepreneurs were more scarce, i.e. they could not reach capital even though they had projects. And that was also one of the bigger problems. But precisely because the EU has told them you have to make that capital equivalent, so if the banking crisis happens again, the citizens will not pay in that part. We believe that this loan is exactly the opposite, so it is possible for entrepreneurs to, I will not say that they do not have to seek expensive and very hard and scarcely obtained loans on the commercial part of the market, but that they can actually get loans that are investment that are developmental, which enable investment in projects. These are projects and export credits. I'd rather have more of those credits in our banking system. And you know what kind of credit you have in the banking system? Consumer credits. You have a loan for the car, you have a loan for the washing machine, you have this, you have that. You have a lot of credits that are consumers, but these are investment loans and these are the ones that are missing from Croatian entrepreneurs. Here you have had and there have been conversations when we talk about our entrepreneurs when we should have gone to export markets and you know what their problem on export markets can't be followed by a bank to realise long-term investments especially in our construction companies when they go outside hard to get credits. And that's why we say we need to do everything we can to give our companies in the Republic an incentive for export credit to go out into the market. And this is one of those loans. So I'd like you to get, that this is actually a turn of credit when it's hard to get the funds when the banks are withdrawing, when the interest is higher, we think this loan is going to be encouraging. As far as the guarantee is concerned, I don't know until now if any guarantees have been activated here. There may have been former finance ministers here and whether guarantees have been activated by international financial organisations related to these loans, and all these loans have been infrastructure and developmental. So that part of the guarantees activated and the guarantees being provided where this High House is required to confirm compliance with the guarantee should not be put in place, but the reality should be watched means that there has been no activation of such funds and that these funds are covered and collateralised through the very process of granting these loans. So we have a good practice through HBOR and we said we need to strengthen HBOR, you saw in the budget, we need to strengthen additional funds, and when the banks have withdrawn to give the exporters to our entrepreneurs and give them more favourable conditions if the commercial banks have retreated to themselves regarding this part of the crisis. That's why I'm asking you to look at this law in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25291	Thank you very much. Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25292	Dear Deputy, you haven't answered any of my questions. The intention of this law is positive that we understand each other. And lucky for me, no family has to take credit unless the interest rates are unique to one or less than the interest on hand savings. I asked what would happen if Friday's Parliament didn't vote this? So there is the responsibility of the Parliament and the responsibility of our MPs, we must vote this law and only then will this be a valid contract. So someone signed a loan agreement before the Croatian Parliament's decision, that's one thing. Does this remind you of anything? Spending on a small drop of as little as 7.3% can only harm us by playing the course, the World Bank requires more efficiency of work, agriculture more social than developmental, governmental reduction plan and coefficients and wages, acceleration of decline, does not help tourism either. Now that's what you see Croatia=Greece, not to mention that internal and external debt. I won't mention internal and external enemies because it's a thing of the past, but it's obvious we're not going the right way. We go into bigger and bigger debt, gross national income falls, we create a centralised state, we suck out everything from citizens, we impose accusations. If you're watching this Suleiman series he had 10% taxes, we only have 1.25% not to mention other taxes, they can't be listed by an ordinary citizen. That should be the question for a million kuna in the Millionaire quiz. How many Croatia has taxes and how much is the total burden of citizens? That's not gonna answer that little Indian either.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25293	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25294	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for "Addditional financing of the Credit Programme for Export Finance", emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 220. The debate on the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I beg your pardon, who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 127 votes, we have passed the Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for "Addditional financing of the Credit Programme of Export Finance" in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25295	And by agreement we will unite the debate on - Final bill on amendments to the Biofuels Act for transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 223 and - Final draft law amending the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 224 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. We'll extend the club time for 20 minutes. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, the economy, environmental protection and nature. You received the reports at the session. Introductory presentation on both laws of Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25296	Before the debate begins, given that the Law amending the law on the market in oil and petroleum products was adopted in the Croatian Assembly at the 22nd session as PZE 676 asks one question to us at the club and to all other representatives, whether any amendments to the law of the PZ law can go without the PZE. And I have to warn you at the beginning of the debate that I said yesterday on the board, no matter what happens to us, what happened to our support for agriculture that we passed the law in this House and then we got the packages from Brussels, and in two weeks, we had to align that same law with those remarks they gave us in Brussels. So this law is all the time governed by PZE law and whatever changes such as this or such are PZE law and you can't discuss it differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25297	Thank you very much. We're going to discuss this and we're going to get to the bottom of it. Thank you very much. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25298	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So there are two laws before you on amendments and additions to the law. One law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act is another law on amendments to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. The main intensity of the proposal is that due to the gradual achievement of the minimum excise duties on oil products, according to the EU acquis and the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia, and without increasing retail prices, it is proposed to abolish the compensation for the promotion of biofuel production. So far, HANDA has collected a Croatian market energy operator and the rerouting of money collected from the retail price of oil products in the name of excise duties. The incentive for fuel production will be paid out of the state budget in the amount of compensation determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by decision. The suspension of the fee in question simultaneously increases the excise duty on motor gasoline, gas oils and fuel kerosene shall be consistent with the minimum excise duties in such a way as not to increase fuel prices. The entry into force of the law is 1 January 2013 at the same time as the Regulation on the level of excise duties on motor gasoline and gas oils and kerosene for propulsion. It is also a similar purpose to replace and amend the Law on the Protection of the Oil and Oil Products Market where the amendment is proposed to abolish the compensation for the financing of HANDA and the rerouting of money collected from the retail price of oil products in the name of excise duties while the financing of the HANDA work will be implemented through the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. And it's the same explanation for the payoffs. So these 5 limes that were actually on biofuels and this part of 15 limes and which were on the HANDA and 25 limes, in fact, turned into the government's regulation on correction in that part of excise duty, means this Regulation was entered into force on 1 January 2013, so that these two laws were actually harmonised in this part to enter into force on 1 January 2013, all with the purpose of retaining certain minimum excise duties that the Republic of Croatia should correct at the time of entry. She was able to say yesterday a really correct debate and in that part of the boards and the issue of funding, so this part of the budget actually provides for both HANDA and this part of biofuels. I must also point out that all the obligations that HandA actually has and when it means restoring these stocks and financing investments that it will not apply to this amendment of the law where the actual sources of funding are changing, that it will now be determined through the state budget, rather than through this part of the compensation. Also, the European Union directives do not indicate the part in which funding will be made but are said to have to be secured means of 90-day supplies and that, in fact, the essence is actually to provide crude oil as a strategic... stock, means for the functioning of the system. So this is just an emergency means replacing these parts of the fee that are actually now being paid out of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25299	Thank you. Do they want representatives of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the debate was shared by Branko Bačić and Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister. The HDZ Club will not support the proposal for a law supplementing the Biofuels Act for transport for formal and substantive reasons. Yesterday, on the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of Assistant Finance, I asked whether, together with additions to the Law on Biofuels for Transport, the Law on Excises or any other act that would regulate the schedule of excise duties to promote biodiesel production, which he told me I didn't need. However, at the meeting of the Government at which this Bill on Biofuels Supplements was adopted, a regulation amending the level of excise duties in the Republic of Croatia was adopted, and this decision was made by the Government under the Excise Law, which confirmed that yesterday I had said on the board that it was necessary to change the decision, or the excise rules. It's quite clear and stems from the law itself. Another thing that is also surprising to us in the HDZ Club is that the law whose original proposal is the Government of the Ministry of Economy which regulates the issue of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia is generally proposed by the Ministry of Economy, and even when it proposed amendments to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels Act, the Ministry of Economy also proposed that, therefore, in this explanation that you have delivered to us on benches, there is indeed a lack of anything that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should contain in that section relating to the reasoning and assessment of the situation of the area for which the law is changing. So neither are the reasons why the law is passed except that you said that due to compliance with the minimum excise duties. The issues addressed to it have been explained in the provision of the proposed law on financial resources for law enforcement. It is strange for us, too, at the HDZ Club, that the Ministry of Finance says that the implementation of this law will not require additional funding in the state budget when this law is the only one that changes. Thus far, according to the existing law that we are supplementing today's compensation for the promotion of biodiesel production, biofuels in the Republic of Croatia for transport were intended, paid by fuel distributors in the Republic of Croatia at the height of 5 lips per litre of fuel sold to the special account of the Croatian Energy Market Operator, so HOTE. And this law changes such a provision of the law in such a way that these funds are no longer collected, are no longer dedicated, are no longer available to them in the way that the Croatian energy market operator has so far, but through excise fees is charged, and it is clear that this leads to an increase in revenues in the state budget based on an increase in the amount of excise duties, and on the other hand a new expenditure is imposed on the positions of the state budget, which the Government, at the proposal of the Ministry of Economy, will, once a year, forward to the Croatian Energy Market Operator. Therefore, the fact does not exist and what you wrote in this bill does not require any additional funding in the state budget when on the one hand the revenues of the state budget are increased, and on the other hand the expenditure has been increased and it was primarily necessary for the Croatian biofuel producers to know how much they will be allocated to the positions of the national budget in 2013 for the promotion of biofuels. The more the Republic of Croatia, in its accession process in the European Union, has made very demanding commitments in the energy sector sector, in particular to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, increase the share of renewable energy use to 20%, increase energy efficiency by 20% and what is important for this law, a binding target for each Member State of the European Union to a minimum of 10% of the share of energy from renewable energy sources. So, in parallel with the draft of this law, the government decided at its session on 31 October to reduce the compensation for encouraging the production of biofuels from 5 limes to 3 June, so 40%. At the same time, it adopted a regulation reducing monetary incentives for biofuel producers in the Republic of Croatia from 3.46 kuna to 2.82 kuna for biodiesel and from 1.75 kuna to 0.26 kuna for bioethanol. So the question arises as to what kind of message is and what the Government wants to send to Croatian biofuel producers at the time we accepted and when we took the obligation to produce 10% of the fuel for transport, to secure from biofuels at the same time reduce the charges to biofuel producers, to reduce the fee to distributors to encourage biofuel production. So we don't get it. We believe that the government is sending a clear message to detimise one of the commitments that we have made in the EU climate-energy third package, to discourage biofuels producers in the Republic of Croatia, and to make it clear on the other hand that we will have to meet the 10% obligation of production, i.e. the cost of biofuels in transport fuels, that it means importing and co-financed foreign energy plants that will produce biofuels, and we will have to use it in the Republic for transport. So, it seems to me that the government, with these decisions on the one hand, detimises the production of biofuels, sends a discouraging message to all those who are going to build a biofuels plant, reduces monetary incentives and subsidies to those same consumers, and on the other hand to distributors who today have a fixed fuel price of 5 liters per litre of fuel. It is simply absolutely neither acceptable from the aspect of fostering and preserving the environment in the Republic of Croatia on the one hand, and on the other hand, in the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to meet all those obligations that we have made from the EU climate-energy package. And another important thing the government didn't do. So neither is this law that is now following, which applies to HANDU, and especially not this law relating to the area of production of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia, has referred to a public debate which should have lasted 30 days and in accordance with... The Convention and all the positive regulations relating to environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia under which regulations all those laws relating to the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia, which affect the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia, must go through that public debate for 30 days and allow all interested parties to make that clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, neither in the explanation provided under this law did you mention the regulation adopted by the Government which reduced the monetary incentives for the production of biofuels, nor did you mention the decision of 31 October, which the Government also made and reduced the compensation for the promotion of biofuels, so that we would hurry with this law, that we should have taken it in time and parallel to the Excise Taxation Act. Both this and the HANDA Act, which, i.e. oil derivatives, is thus systematicly considering policy in the first place when we talk about this law, is politics, energy policy in the biofuel production section. Therefore, what we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club expect the government to withdraw this law into a second reading to clearly tell us how and how it is considering implementing this third energy package, in which way the Government intends to encourage the production of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia, how it holds the basis of the law to implement the provision, i.e. by binding the goal of making a minimum 10% share of renewable energy... to produce and thus create new jobs in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club, because of, I also said formal and content reasons, cannot accept this Law, but suggests that the government withdraw it and direct it to another reading. And it would be very good if the Government sent him along with the Taxation Act, which Mr. Deputy you promised a month ago when we talked about the Excise Taxation Act, that the new Taxation Act would come before this House by the New Year's, and when I warned you that Croatian shipowners would be in a place where and where more unfavourable than other shipowners if they were subject to the existing Excise Act. Therefore, here in this sense we cannot support the law in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25301	Mr. Vice President, Deputy, colleagues. First of all, I need to conclude that this law is in explicit responsibility and jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, both of which are. A year or two ago, in early 2011, we had the same changes to the Law on the Market in Oil Products, where there was a representative of the Ministry of Economy here, so we don't know by estimating of course and underestimating your role here why there is no one here in front of the Ministry of Economy. And it would be interesting to hear exactly what they think about it. But here's how it is. Therefore, the Act on the Market in Oil and Oil Products also provides for the following activities: the production of petroleum products, the transport of oil and oil pipelines, the transport of oil and products to products, the trade in large oil products, the retail trade in oil products, oil storage and oil products and trade, intermediation and representation on the market of oil and petroleum products. Furthermore, the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products has been established and measures have been arranged for safe and reliable oil supply and oil derivatives. The law is fully in line with all the legal acts of the EU Council in this area. Moreover, in the area of market security and oil derivatives, the law is in full compliance with Council Directive 2006/67 EC which regulates the issue of keeping oil and oil supply obligations. In the process of negotiating the accession of the Republic of Croatia, the security of supply in terms of the formation of mandatory oil and petroleum products was one of the key issues for the temporary closure of Chapter 15. - Energy. The Republic of Croatia has been granted a transitional period for the formation of mandatory oil and petroleum products until 31 July 2012, with the primary reason that significant storage facilities require time and significant financial resources in the field of the Republic of Croatia. Meanwhile, on 14 September 2009, the Council adopted a new directive on the storage of mandatory supplies and/or oil derivatives, with a view to bringing the EU legal framework closer to the legal framework of the International Energy Agency and with a view to increasing the availability of mandatory supplies and better control of supplies. The new Directive significantly amended the obligation to form compulsory stocks and in terms of the amount of the obligation and in terms of the way in which the obligation is determined, which directly affects the structure of the compulsory stocks. Furthermore, the new Directive provides for the establishment of a central body within each Member State that would be solely in charge of the supply and management of mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products, and the reporting requirements for mandatory and commercial supplies of oil and petroleum products are also significantly strengthened. The new Directive of the Member States is to be applied by 31 December 2012 at the latest. In order to fully negotiate the construction of the necessary storage facilities in the national area of the Republic of Croatia as much as possible for raw oil warehouses, and how much for oil derivatives and consequently to assume long-term storage obligations was necessary as soon as possible to comply with the new Directive where the long-term composition of the mandatory stocks should be assessed according to the calculation prescribed by the new Directive. Amendments to the 2011 Act have brought into line with the new Council Directive and introduced appropriate amendments and additions concerning both the availability and the increased control of mandatory oil and petroleum products supplies, reporting, the operation of compulsory stocks, the activity and the subject-matter of the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Stocks of Oil and Oil Products as the central body for Mandatory Stocks in the Republic of Croatia. I am saying this because it is definitely not your finding that these amendments to the law do not concern legal regulation and that you should not have taken the view of the European Commission as far as this law is concerned. This created the preconditions for the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia to fully comply with the EU acquis in the area of security of supply. the formation and storage of mandatory oil and petroleum products stocks that will be in place after 31.12.2012. Therefore, the preconditions necessary for the construction of part of planned storage facilities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia were met. the start of an investment cycle of about one billion kuna, which should be completed by half of 2013 at the latest. These were therefore fundamental facts that we have done so far in the field of harmonisation with the fundamental principles of the International Energy Agency with regard to increasing the availability of mandatory oil and petroleum products. And that is the fundamental reason why the HANDA as an independent agency is set up and why an independent form of financing has been established. These changes eliminate the independence and independence of this agency and endanger anything that has been done so far in the field of energy market regulation and the secure safe establishment of mandatory supplies of these energy products. The funds intended to provide oil and derivative supplies and capacity building cannot and must not be part of any type of tax revenue. This activity cannot and must not share the fate of the budget because it really has nothing to do with the budget. We therefore believe that the government is a harsh violation of the commitments made by signing the treaty with the EU and that this law had to pass the process of harmonisation with the European Commission. But the fundamental reason for these changes is obviously a terrible attempt to find budget revenues regardless of the consequences. The same applies to biofuels. So the fundamental question here is, what does the budget have to do with the promotion of biofuel production? It is obvious, therefore, that the Minister of Finance has also found a way to further move which 100 million kunas into the budget without, of course, responsibility for the consequences of such a decision and for the collapse of the established system of fostering the construction of renewable energy sources. That's why it's not surprising that no one from the Ministry of Economy is here. I'm surprised you forgot the compensation for building renewable electricity sources, but it'll probably be the next step. Your idea is to transfer the charges from a litre of diesel and gasoline 5 limes to excise fees, to transfer the fees of 200, 300 and 50 kuna to excise duties and significantly increase the budget revenues from the excise charge. However, the law does not say how much of this will be returned to CROTE and HANDA, but rather that it will be financed as needed. So the Ministry of Finance will decide when and how long it will return to its function of supplying oil and oil derivatives and incentives to build a biofuel plant. But something is actually particularly obvious that you did not mention in your first address in the Oil Market Act that abolished the possibility of acquiring shares by HANDA. So we know that Handa owns over just over 26% of JANAF shares. This law abolishes the possibility of the Handa still owning those shares. So what is the backdrop of such a law? So, you put your weight on excise duties, and you silenced this fact that Handa will no longer be able to have shares of JANAF, 26%. What is the cause and purpose of such a change? And you're not, so you might answer there now, but the question is, what are you going to do with those shares and what is their further destiny? So this is obviously the first few reasons why these changes cannot be accepted, so you are disrupting the independence of both HANDE and HROTE agencies, you are disrupting such a small prospect of building your own capacity to achieve 10% of the production obligation was fuel, so Mr Bačić has already said that we will then pay that fee to foreign producers. You're breaking everything I said in the introduction about the independence of the oil reserve agency because you're removing their safe source of income and you're violating, of course, what Handa should have done, the possibility and opportunity to build our own capacity for which we've assumed our commitment to store oil. So by transferring these funds to excise duties that you don't even know, when you pick up, you don't reduce those fees, but you transfer them as revenue to the budget, and how much you're going to pay CROTE and HANDI, it doesn't say anywhere. You, of course, have left something to do with the fact that HROT is not in the budget item, but just Handa some amounts, but who says you'll actually get it back there. So you'll keep the difference that you think you need further in filling the state budget holes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25302	We have a colleague named Bačić Ivan Shuker on display with a replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have rightly said that the Agency's operating resources are not secured, and when you look at all these changes and spells done by the Ministry of Finance instead of the Ministry of Economy, then you will see that HROTE is nowhere in the budget. So we put this problem yesterday on the Committee on Finance and the Ministry of Finance sent an odd answer as if we were all illiterate in this House. It says at the position of A822052 at the level of the Ministry of Economy there are funds for the HROTs there written only by HANDA. CROTE is not mentioned anywhere, but it is very interesting that only 448 million kuna are foreseen for 2014 projections. So one elemental question arises whether this tall House can discuss a law for which no funds are provided. We, if we pass this law, the Ministry of Finance cannot even pay off a lack of funds because the funds are not foreseen in the budget. This position is only about Handi and not HROTE. you, if you wanted to change your way of funding then at the positions of the Ministry of Economy, is why your colleague Popioč said that this was not proposed by the Ministry of Finance but by the Ministry of Economy because their funds should be placed in the position of HANDA so many millions and HROTE positions so many and so many millions. Then you could say that you have insurance because these are two different budget users and you can't possibly put them in the same basket. Therefore, no legal requirements have been met, in fact, the business conditions for the debate on this law because no funds were provided for that were warned colleagues from the Kukuriku Coalition yesterday on the Committee on Finance. They received an official response from the Ministry of Finance. However, colleagues and colleagues look at this position is mentioned exclusively by HANDA, so you were in full law regarding your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25304	We have a response to the replica. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25305	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's right, fellow Shuker. But I'd go one step further. It seems to me that at the moment of the State budget's preparation of the Government's amendments and additions to the Biofuels Act, she did not even think about it, because if she had thought about it a month before the budget was made, then she would not have made a decision to determine the amount of compensation for 2013 for the promotion of the production of biofuels at 3 June per litre so that this law would now abolish that compensation. So a month after she prescribed a fee for next year to encourage the production of biofuels, she changed the law and thus her own decision a month ago. Therefore, the fact is that the implementation of this HROTE law leaves no dedicated means and that the Government will not know, on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy, why, with the consent of the Ministry of Finance, that CROTE will deliver biofuels. How much, in what amount? Who's going to make that plan? It's not clear to us by this law. How much of this money are they gonna deliver? Is this how practically Croatian biofuel producers lose their resources. Here's today's December 11th. Biofuel manufacturers in Croatia do not know how much of the fuel produced next year will be subsidized. This is inadmissible in one state rather than strategically considering two, three, four years in advance that biofuel producers know that their plant will be stimulated by a country with secure means at precisely prescribed amounts. Here's just a few days before the start of New Year's Eve, we still don't know how much money you'll be provided. And exactly what was supposed to be in this budget is what counterpart Schuker, what was supposed to be in this budget, is now going to determine how much of the funds will be provided to the Croatian Energy Market Operator.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25306	Thank you. And to the release of colleagues of Popijac, Martina Dalic, the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25307	Well, I actually wanted to remind a fellow drinker and all of us here that this isn't the first time we've discussed HANDE financing in the recent past. So Handi was also involved in budget rebalancing. Thus, 500 million kunas of HANDE funds were transferred to the budget in a certain way taken away by HANDI without any cost-effectiveness. There's a fog in 2013 at least. What I really wanted to ask you is, if you can take away 500 million kuna of her income in one year, if in the following year you can put the next 700 million kuna under the questionnaire, then the question is whether Handa and her function should be at all? Is it possible that Handa has completed her assignments? Are the oil reserves set up at 90 days of average consumption? Are the issues related to building capacity in which the oil will be stored resolved? I think that, given the seriousness of these issues, we need to get answers to these questions because these are the commitments we have made in the negotiations with the EU. Is there a Deputy Finance Minister present here to answer these questions? I don't know. And this once again opens up and further strengthens the problem of why there is no Ministry of Economy here, because it should answer these questions and perhaps because of these changes in funding it cannot provide answers or those it would give are not in line with the commitments undertaken towards the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25308	Thank you. We have a response to the replica of a fellow drinker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25309	Thank you. My colleague Dalic, of course, cannot answer these questions because I have no information as to whether we will, according to these obligations, assume that Croatia has taken over, but not only because of its obligations to the EU, because we definitely want to be and are part of a global energy and energy market, so of course oil and oil derivatives, and we must assume some responsibility and obligation in this way and ensure our own stability for the delivery and for the insurance of these energy products. So, we said by half 2013, we'd be building our own facilities to store our own oil and oil reserves. We don't really know since this year you mentioned 500 million kuna from the HANDA account was taken correctly. Are these investments stopped and what is the fate of these projects and these investments? But they probably share the fate of all investments in Croatia, do we see how much less investment is in Croatia than last year, and are we still going to keep our oil and oil reserves around the countries? So these are fundamental issues, however, obviously here representatives who defend the amendments to this law concern them, of course, only the position they will remain in the budget of the funds when all these are distributed as much as they think they will need, and I don't know if they will then take responsibility for all those obligations and for these reserves of oil and petroleum products, of course and for those obligations that we assume according to international obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25310	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, the debate was shared by Igor Coleman and Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25311	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the deputy deputy minister. So I'm going to talk about biofuels, and my colleague Gjurkovic is going to take over this second piece of HANDA. And it seems to me to be a good opportunity to say a few words here and about the content of biofuels as such and the fact that we encourage their production. In fact, when the biofuel mode started, it was based on an idealistic idea that it would be CO2 neutral combustion, so the fuels produced, and indeed when it would release as much CO2 into the atmosphere as plants absorbed through their growth and development, unfortunately, this assumption did not take into account the fact that the production of these plants themselves has an impact on the environment, in which way these plants are processed into the environment and what the effects of the whole story remained. Unfortunately, and scientists have warned of this from the very beginning, but what we can say today with a very high degree of security is that neither the greenhouse gas use of biofuels reduced nor the other harmful gases, though. The latest studies show that rape, corn, soybean and all other plants used in biofuel production have an even more harmful effect when taking the entire chain of production and use from traditional fossil fuels. The problem we have is that if we wanted to reach the world's 20% share of biofuels in fuels, which is the number mentioned in some countries, it would require production that is almost double the total food production at this point for all mankind. It is clear that developed countries where each inch of agricultural and other land has already been used do not have the capacity to make such an additional increase in production and thus buy biofuels and have to buy on the world market. What it brings is that agricultural areas in the most underdeveloped countries are transformed from food production areas to biofuel production areas. This means that food is getting more and more expensive, it's getting smaller and that means that there's an additional generation of hunger where it's already a problem. And of course, when we have in the third world an additional view of hunger, then we have emigrations and conflicts and everything that hunger carries with it as a social and global problem. The next consequence of biofuel production is the reduction of forest areas. In South America, in countries like Indonesia in the most brutal way possible, so illegal cutting and burning of forest areas is then so called. the untapped land, which then turns into plant planting areas for biofuels and thus destroys habitats, the richest habitats of the living world on this globe of the Earth and encourages further extinction of species. Therefore, the promotion and subsidisation of the production of biofuels, unfortunately without a complete analysis of the effects and production from the start of production to the use, was one reckless error. Both the European Commission and I will slowly conclude, given that we are constantly calling for Europe, the European Commission has recently published a CO2 balance of biofuels and it is devastating. So biofuels enhance greenhouse effect. In the case of rape 4.5% more than fossil fuels, in the case of soybeans of 11.7% more than fossil fuels. That's why countries like Germany, which just as we speak, are reviewing its obligations regarding the percentage of biofuels in total fuel retreaded from those original plans. The European Commission has also slowed down from those original idealistic plans, and that is certainly something that we must bear in mind when we talk about biofuels, their promotion, their planting, their production and their share of the total fuel consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25312	Dear Vice President, there is no Deputy Minister, there is an assistant, a colleague and a colleague. On behalf of the HNS Club, I will present what we believe to be the key facts regarding the Law amending the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products and the open issues which we believe the law can cover, i.e. it will not remain open. Taking into account the fact that most European countries depend on oil and oil imports, the European Union has prescribed for its members the obligation to hold 90-day oil and oil reserves. In the process of harmonising the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia, we heard but I will repeat, with the acquis of the European Union and the Treaty on Energy, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, the National Journal of 57/2006, amendments and additions to the same law at its meeting on 12 May 2006. Subject law regulates the issue of compulsory oil and petroleum products as measures for the safe and reliable supply of the Republic of Croatia to oil, oil products in the event of a threat to the energy security of the state due to exceptional supply disorders. Obligator of insurance, oil and oil supplies of the Republic of Croatia is the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products Handa. The Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products HandA is an independent, independent and non-profit public institution established by the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, National No. 57/2006. In accordance with the guidelines of the European Union and the conditions adopted in the negotiations under Chapter 15. Energy, security of supply is defined as the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Croatia and its special function, HANDA, an independent, independent and non-profit public institution and the central body for compulsory stocks reporting, communicating with the European Commission and responding for security of supply of the oil and oil products of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Since the establishment of mandatory supplies is the subject of ongoing monitoring by the European Commission and in early 2013 a visit to the mission of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of checking the application from the field of energy needs to be ensured as soon as possible by the technical and operational implementation of the amendments to the law in order to ensure the smooth conduct of all business activities of the HANDA. By amending the law of the framework, it must not be questioned and plans to start the co-operation between the Croatian Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Ministry of Defence on the establishment of the fuel reserve and oil strategy in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia, by adopting the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products in 2011, which was the European law, allowed the HANDA, under the orders of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to form a long-term supply of oil derivatives for the purposes of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, as well as supplies of oil products formed in accordance with the Strategic Stocks Act. The formation of strategic reserves of fuel and oil in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia has also been defined by the decision of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia on the establishment, preservation of the fuel reserve and oil strategy in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia since 28 November 2011, and in accordance with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to join NATO. The project to form mandatory oil and oil products in line with the European Union directives is one of the largest energy projects in the Republic of Croatia, which addresses the issue of security of oil supply and oil products for citizens and the economy in the long term and triggers a significant investment cycle. The amendment of the legal framework should not prejudice the realisation of the entire investment cycle of commitments undertaken and the independence and independence of a non-profit public institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25313	Thank you. We've reported four replicas to a colleague's exhibit. Myrell Holy picked up first. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25314	Dear colleague Coleman, I could agree with you in part if biofuels were produced exclusively from agricultural cultures. However, biofuels are now produced from different waste materials, for example biodiesel is produced by catalytic polymerisation processes from different types of waste, from waste oils and other types. Like weeds are already developing technologies today to produce bioethanol. There was also a gas which was particularly important for use in public transport, which can naturally be produced in the way of the recovery of existing waste dumps. So there really are a whole series of different solutions. In addition, I would like to mention that when we talk about the total amount of waste, and today waste is a very substantial material for the production of biofuels to waste from agriculture, more than 50% of the total waste that unfortunately ends in different ways. I really don't think there are any obstacles to the use of modern technologies like the mentioned catalytic polymerization just to produce biodiesel or kerosene that can be used for airplanes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25315	We have a response to the replica of colleague Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25316	Thank you. My colleagues Holly, you are absolutely right and all of what you have listed as alternative methods are truly acceptable, accepted and they are indeed in most parts very close to that ideal of really reducing CO2. What I was talking about, and so what's problematic is two things. First of all, unfortunately, none of these alternative production methods are still available, and we cannot even get close to those 10% targets, and in particular 20%, which were set up by 2020 as a share in total fuels. So that's one problem we're facing. And the other problem is, then, this targeted production of biofuels culture that I really think should be very careful to say so I should be very careful when discussing the promotion of such production. And as for these other things you mentioned, I couldn't agree more, but you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25317	Thank you. Next replica Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colman, from your debate, concluded that you justify such a government policy that reduces resources to stimulate biofuel production by saying that today from a professional point of view it is questionable whether the production of biofuels from cereals contributes to reducing CO2 emissions. That's what you said in your speech. That it's all that and exactly what you're talking about, and it's not true, and you mentioned that at EC level, it's being discussed, that one of the advocates of your opinion is the Republic of Germany, you seem to have mentioned it. That's not true either. In fact, Germany is precisely saying that there is no reason to leave verified technologies when it comes to biofuel production. But I'm saying that's exactly what you said, still what Mrs. Holly said, there are other technologies that produce in another generation biofuels from household waste, from edible oils, etc. etc. Therefore, instead of the government increasing incentives, the subsidy for the production of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia either for this basic, basic biofuel that comes from cereals, from sugar beet, from corn, etc. And that it comes from the production of another generation of biofuels. This proposal, i.e. the proposal for a law supplementing the Transport Biofuels Act, also reduces such a small incentive for a small share of biofuels in the consumption of motor fuels in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we must advocate such a policy that will contribute to the production of biofuels either from cereals, either from these other sources and from the means on which biofuels are produced in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25319	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go, colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25320	Well, I'm actually in my answer to my colleague Holly on a good part of your remarks actually already answered. Therefore, the production of waste materials from biomass, etc. It's something else entirely. What concerns me and us is this targeted production and planting of cultures exclusively with the intention of producing fuel from them. I wouldn't go into whether or not I justify this government policy and in this way reducing incentives. In my debate, I simply warned that this is a fact that we should take into account and that the environmental effects that were considered to be exceptional such biofuels were at this point brought under a large questionnaire and that this is something to bear in mind in policy making both fiscal, economic and energy and all others.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25321	Thank you. And Stephen Milinkovic's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25322	Article 216 was injured, Mr. Vice President, where a colleague said that what I was saying was incorrect. It is true, therefore, that the village is in a difficult position in any case, it is true that in the 2013 budget the support in agriculture has been reduced by 500 million
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25323	I'm taking Milinkovic's word from you. You hurt the Rules of Procedure when you replicated this, now that you've replicated it, you'll let it, when you've replicated it, you've injured the Rules of Procedure and you've talked about a subject that has nothing to do with the subject on the agenda. Neither in context nor in a broader context. And so there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure. And the last replica, Comrade Drinker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. From your presentation, there was a hunch, so please, if you have such information to tell us does this mean that something in the directives in this EU area has changed? Maybe they've given up, maybe they've done something about the obligations of biofuels in transport fuels, and we haven't been informed of that by any chance. As far as I know, nothing has changed there is still a deal, and there is still a commitment that we continue to increase, of course, that level of biofuels in transport fuels, so diesel and gasoline. Does this mean, therefore, that you are suggesting that no further investment should be made that would mean building your own capacity to produce these energys, and does this mean that you are suggesting that support, whether it remains this way or will come from the budget, will be transferred to those who are smarter and will continue to produce mandatory quantities of biofuels according to existing directives? Let's warn again if we don't produce our own sources, if we don't build our own plants, we're going to have to pay the subsidized price to those who will import that fuel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25325	Thank you. Answer, here's your colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25326	At this point, nothing has changed at the level of the directive. 17.10. are... I apologize in Brussels to translate directly from German, so it's a little slower, so they put forward a proposal to limit the share of first-generation biofuels, so that's exactly what we talked about, so this is the first generation of directly targeted production to limit to 5%, even though the previous plan was 10% by 2020, and together with this CO2 balance that was published which shows that the results were devastating. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that points to exactly what I've been warning you all along and that's that we need to be careful when we talk about further biofuel planning, its production, its production, its production, it's especially important what my colleague Holly said and the share of that fuel in the total fuel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25327	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Igor Čeek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25328	Thank you very much, Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a Law amending the Biofuels Act with a final proposal for a law. HNS colleagues have strongly defended the views of this government and told you about the harmfulness of the production of oil rape and biofuel processing and that this harmfulness is greater than fossil fuels. However, we are all aware that the entire world economy is resting on oil today, but its supplies are limited, its price is constantly rising and is closely linked to global crises. Security of supply becomes one of the primary problems. In spite of some shortcomings, biofuels have significant advantages, they fall into renewable energy sources, their application reduces greenhouse gas emissions and can be produced in Croatia. So biofuels can be produced in Croatia. What is very important for us in the Republic of Croatia are thousands of hectares of unprocessed surfaces that could be very well used for the production of raw materials for the processing of biofuels, corn, rape oil etc. We import food anyway and say we don't have enough for our needs, but with this government's behaviour towards Croatian agriculture, we'll probably have to import it even more, and then at least we can produce an oil turnip for the production of biodiesel, but as we seem, according to this bill, we won't be able to do it either. What are the significant advantages of the use of biodiesel? The use of biodiesel in conventional diesel engines results in significant reductions in unburned hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and particles. The emissions of nitrogen oxides are either slightly reduced or slightly increased depending on the cycle of the engine and the use of the test method. Biodiesel has an advantage over fossil diesel in terms of emission reductions so that the mixture B20 reduces the emissions of hydrocarbons by 20%, carbon monoxide and particles by 12% and sulphur by about 20%. So again, this claim from HNS colleagues is not true as biodiesel is more harmful and its production. The European Union, as a target by 2020, has a tendency to increase the share of biofuels to as much as 20% in fuels used for transport purposes because, among other things, it wants to ensure the stability of investment in the sector and to increase revenues from it with the primary conservation of the environment. Will this bill increase the share of biofuels in transport? I'm sure we won't. What does the law tell us? The purpose of the Biofuels Act for transport is to achieve the objectives of sustainable development in the field of transport, to reduce negative environmental impacts, to improve fuel security in an environmentally acceptable way, to meet the needs of consumers for fuel, to meet the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the area of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and to encourage the production and use of biofuels in transport as a replacement for diesel fuel for engine petrol. Croatian Energy Market Operator d.o.o. CROTE shall collect a dedicated compensation for the promotion of biofuel production. The obligor shall pay compensation for the promotion of the production of biofuels because the distributor which places diesel fuel or motor gasoline on the market for motor vehicles or ships which, in accordance with the Excise Taxation Act, is considered to be a excise duty. The amount of the compensation for the promotion of the production of biofuels for 2012 was defined by the decision on the level of the compensation for the promotion of the production of biofuels in 2012. It is 0.5 and 5 lp per litre of diesel fuel or motor gasoline, respectively. The proposed law amending the Biofuels Act for Transport and the amount of compensation for the promotion of biofuel production from 1 January 2013 would be paid out of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia at the level determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And a decision of five. In 122012, it was 3 limes per litre of diesel fuel or motor gasoline. Therefore, reducing the promotion of biodiesel production, reducing aid in agriculture will certainly not lead to an increase in biodiesel production or will lead to an increase in agricultural production itself. In that context, we at the HDSSB club will not support this bill because we will not achieve anything with them. As regards the draft law amending the law on the oil and oil market with the final draft law, the HDSB Club will also be against the adoption of this law, as the Proposer puts it in his reasoning? The Croatian agency for the mandatory supply of oil and petroleum products is an independent, independent and non-profit public institution which is an insurance undertaking, an oil supply and oil derivatives bond in line with the commitments made to the European Commission. The amount of the compensation for the financing of the work of the Croatian Agency for the Obligation of Oil and Oil Products and the OBF for 2012 is defined by the decision on the amount of compensation for the financing of the work of the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products and by the OBF for 2012 is 200 kuna per tonne of motor gasoline, 300 kuna per tonne of diesel fuel, 50 kuna per tonne of gas oil for heating and kerosene, petroleum oil for the domestic market for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2012. Amendments to the law in question propose the suspension of the fuel charge in favour of the HANDE or direct financing of the Agency’s work and the financing of compulsory oil and oil supplies through the Agency. The financing of the Agency's work will be carried out through the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia on 1 January 2013. HANDA as a budgetary user for those needs will be provided directly from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia according to its real and real needs. What are the real and real needs of Hande? We saw in the 2013 budget that this is 700 million kuna, projections for 2014 amount to 484 million kuna and projections for 2015 800 million kuna. Now what I am most interested in in this whole story is this projection for 2014 why it amounts to 484 million kuna or whether HANDA will be able to do its job with this revenue from the State budget. I'm not sure. I'm not sure he will. I don't think that's enough money. As regards this previous law, fuel production in the Republic of Croatia will continue to decrease and not increase biofuels. So our oil supply won't be enough from our production, we'll have to buy it, considering these 484 million kunas won't be enough. Maybe it's all about changing Handa's very headmaster. We are all witnessing that the longtime director has been removed and a party man who is not an expert in oil and oil products and we have replaced man, not us, has been replaced by an expert who founded his agency and brought the Croatian oil reserves to an average of the EU state. Although there are three more years of contracts, the agency's administrative board has broken a contract that will cost Handu more than 2 million kuna itself. So very interesting things happen in Handi itself, and in terms of that HDSSB will not support these two draft laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25329	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the debate was shared between Ivo Jelusic and Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25330	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club on this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Biofuels for Transport, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law. The reason the SDP club will support this bill is that this law will prevent additional impact on the standards and budgets of Croatian citizens and citizens who drive cars and who, through excise fees, fill the state budget. In this respect, Croatia must bring its legislation into line with EU legislation, which requires an increase in excise duties and in order for the government not to increase the tax press in the total amount, the Government has decided to increase the amount of excise duties administratively in such a way as to include the current parafiscal charge, or in the case of biofuels for the promotion of biofuel production. This will satisfy the EU Directive's requirements without additional financial burden on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely because of this positive intention which is the purpose of this brief amendment that the SDP Club will support this bill. In the SDP club, we are aware of certain irregularities and shortcomings in this bill, but we believe that the positive intensity described above outweighs the weaknesses of the proposal. One of the illogicalities is in any case the technical type. It is not usual for laws falling within the power of the Ministry of Economy on behalf of the Government to propose and defend the Ministry of Finance. Also, CROATIA, which is filled with a parafiscal compensation for the promotion of biofuel production, is not included in the recently adopted state budget as a beneficiary of the state budget, and this will become the result of the adoption of this law, as now the increased cost of excise duties as defined by the government's decision to CROTE will be transferred from the state budget. There are indications that these funds will be reduced from 5 limes per litre in 2013 which can be reduced by already unsatisfactory percentage of the production and consumption of biofuels in total road transport. We remind you that by 2020 the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to achieve a minimum of 10% biofuel in total fuel consumption in the Republic of Croatia will not be easy to achieve. As a result, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should define national targets for each individual year for each year by 2020 and plan the funds and part of the excise duty for that purpose. In fact, it must not happen at all to endanger the realisation of these goals aimed at the realisation of sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, despite the multi-year existence of the Biofuels Act, it is undeniable to the fact that the Biofuels Act has not achieved its goal to this day, it has not encouraged the production of biofuels in Croatia, but unfortunately there is a danger and that it can lead to the promotion of imports and blending of outside-made fuels into Croatian motor fuels, which would in fact encourage and subsidise the economy of other countries, not domestic production. Namely, by ratifying the Kyoto Protocol as well as by taking over the EU acquis, Croatia has committed itself to respecting certain standards and rules that we can do in an extremely expensive way and unfavourable way for Croatia and already knock-out Croatian economy, or we can do so in a way that will have a positive impact on the weakened Croatian economy other than the benefit of Croatia's environment. The EU International Conventions do not tell us how to do this. They tell us that we need to do this, and in the wisdom and mind of every state and national government is to do it the way he knows and can. In the SDP Club, for this reason, we appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that as soon as possible the Law on Renewable Energy, which is the basic condition for the implementation of renewable sources in Croatia and the use of renewable sources as a sector for the launch of a new investment cycle in Croatia, economic recovery and the instrument for a new cycle of employment of the population. Renewable sources can be implemented in one way or another. They can be realised or mobilized by domestic fallen industries, construction and meditation and even shipbuilding on the production and development of domestic technology and renewables facilities or can be realised by buying other people's technology and subsidising other people's economies. This applies not only to solar power plants to vertro power plants, geothermal ones, but also to biofuel production. Croatia must not be able to achieve the 10% share of energy from renewable sources in transport fuels by 2020 by mixing outside the produced biodiesel, biogas or bioethanol or by producing biofuels in Croatia. In the SDP club, we believe that the state's subsidies to biofuels must in no way be spent on blending and selling biofuels but only on domestic production of biofuels. Only in this case can Croatia benefit from biofuels and use biofuels as an engine of a new, better, more environmentally-friendly development of Croatia. And for this, we need not only a national action plan for renewable energy sources but also an emergency as soon as possible to adopt quality for the Croatian economy of the Encouragement Law on Renewable Energy Sources. Biofuels are only one segment of this extremely important sector. It is indisputable that energy efficiency or energy efficiency in transport is an extremely significant sector because Croatia spends about a third of primary energy on transport. Although Croatia does not have an impact on the vehicle's economy, it is produced in a dozen major systems that Croatian policy can have a significant positive impact in two ways and in this extremely important sector by improving public transport, especially suburban and optimising excise and toll systems. It is primarily necessary to encourage the consumption of biofuels produced in the Republic of Croatia from domestic raw materials, as I have already said, and that this should be defined as a system of monitoring the quality and quantity of biofuels on the market as well as biofuel flows on the market through the Agency for Renewable Energy, whose establishment is foreseen by the Energy Act. In fact, the economic space of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia currently controls and regulates a number of state institutions, resulting in an inaccuracies and inconsistencies of existing regulations. Such an approach has proved inefficient and insufficiently good for the production of biofuels and the development of a new economic branch. One reason is the lack of expertise and lack of knowledge of technical issues related to biofuels in state administration bodies. It is therefore necessary to establish an expert body of the Agency for Renewable Energy Sources, which will help the ministries with their work and knowledge to restore jobs better, while at the same time making it easier for biofuel producers to implement planned projects with their inclusion in the Strategy for Development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25331	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Director of the Customs Administration, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk to my colleague Holly about this first law, and I'm going to talk about the Oil and Oil Market Act. There's been a lot of conversation here, a lot of reluctance, different interpretations of these short amendments to the law, and I don't really see too many reasons for that. What is the purpose of this amendment to the law? The amendment is to say that from now on, the funds it needs to do what is its legal task will be received in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, that there will be funds in the budget, not more as it has been directly from excise duties. And I don't see any reason for the big recommendations and the disputes about it. What's the job, Handa? Are these amendments to the law calling into question the basic tasks of the Handa? The task of the HANDA is therefore to worry, to ensure that the Republic of Croatia has a quarter, 90 days supply of oil and oil derivatives exactly according to the specification it needs, so in case God does not give us the resources of oil and oil derivatives that we can operate autonomously for 3 months. That's Handa's job. Is this amendment and the addition of the law questionable? No, at least as far as I know, I didn't hear that coming into question. Therefore, if it is a government obligation, it is an obligation for the state to ensure that for 3 months it can operate without external sources of oil and oil derivatives, it is the obligation of the state to its economy, according to its citizens, and for this function it has established an agency that does so on behalf of it. The state is obliged to provide and funds for this job and the state has done so and the state will do so in its budget and therefore see nothing in this dispute. There are three of them, as far as I've seen. So whether the HANDA function is being questioned, so what it was founded for, secondly whether the funds were secured and thirdly, whether this amendment of the law is in collegiate with EU legislation. I said just now when it comes to this first one, so the HANDA function is not questioned, but it will continue to perform its work neatly as it has so far. The funds, as we can see, are secure and there is no increase, which is also important to say. So nothing will cost either the economy or the citizens more that they regulate this way, although there were words here, I think my colleague Popioč said on behalf of the HDZ Club that this would eliminate the safe sources of income for HANDA. If something whose resources are secured in the budget isn't a secure source of funds, I don't know what it is. And what's safer than the budget. This is therefore absolutely certainly the means provided in the Croatian budget. And I'd be begging my colleague Shucker not to confuse me and throw me out of the bench. And the third is whether this law, this amendment of the law, is in collapsing with the European Union directive, is not. It is simply because Croatia's obligation to establish and set up an agency. The legal acquis of the European Union does not regulate the way in which the agencies are financed and there are different practices in different European Union countries. It is not uniquely arranged, therefore any state can ensure that it considers the best way to ensure the work of the agency that has the task it has. It is therefore not in conflict or conflict with European Union directives. And what is important to say, therefore, any law that has an E mark, so that is in line with the legislation of the European Union, can be changed in that part and without the consent of the European Union in that part if it changes what has nothing to do with it, which does not affect the European Union Directives. Something that's an autonomous matter of the state. Therefore, if you get into a problem and what the European Union directives determine, there is no reason why you cannot change it without the consent of the European Union. It is therefore not necessary for everyone to seek consent but only for what the European Union has resolved with its directives. It can't be changed, and it doesn't happen here. So none of the HANDA functions are at stake, the funds are secured, are not in collegiate with the EU, but the problem seems to be, if the work of HANDA is at all problematic, how it works and how it has worked so far. I think that's more to talk about than how the funds will be provided. Of course, it is also important how funds will be provided, but it is important that they are provided. Let's talk about how Handa did her job. I'm not getting into it, and I don't have any evidence, it's probably a basic task of providing the necessary supplies of oil and oil products, but it's a question of whether this same job could have been done with a much less cost. This is what is important to us as advocates in this House because we are the citizens chosen to take care of their money. It's always the money, it's the budget, it's the excise money, it's always the citizens' and the economy's money. So, as these funds have been spent, we need to discuss whether this same function could have been performed much cheaper. There were also questions about what would happen to any surplus funds, etc., whether they would stay in the budget or not. And what if they're in HANDA, so it doesn't matter in HANDA, and if there's extra funding, they can spend it any way they want and they will, but I don't think that's the way it's supposed to be. There's seven people employed in Handa. I pulled two items from 2011. The cost of the official road 850,000 kuna, so on average each employee spent 120,000 kuna on the official trip, and their mission is to secure oil supplies. I don't know, I guess every single one of those employees went to bring oil and oil derivatives himself. I don't know where they came from. For example, the cost of intellectual services is a million and 270000 kuna. So almost 2,000 kuna per employee had the cost of intellectual services. That's what we need to talk about in this House. And that's what matters, so let's see how Handa does. She's independent, independent and nonprofit. But that doesn't mean that someone's independent enough to do whatever they want and someone else's money. And that's what we need to talk about. And so if we can get close to this legal solution, too, to start keeping an eye on how Handa is doing, I think we're on the right track and on the right track. There were also words here about the recapitalisation of JANAF. If we look at what is the original purpose of the HANDA, which is to take care of supplies, that Croatia has three months of oil and oil products, I see no reason that one such agency has 24% or no matter how much in a company that carries out its full market activity. I don't see any difference. Therefore, if once a unnecessary thing has been done for me and such a recapitalisation project has entered into me, I do not see why it should be continued. You can make mistakes and make mistakes, but insisting on a mistake is twice as much a mistake. So, finally, let me cut it short. There is no valid law that this amendment and the addition of the law should be challenged. So none of the important things question you. The HANDA function has not been questioned. He'll still be able to do what he's doing. However, the funds are provided, however, a safe source in the Croatian budget. Finally, it is not in collegiate with EU directives, with EU legislation, and we see no reason why such amendments and additions cannot go and the SDP club will absolutely support such a proposal for amending and supplementing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25332	Thank you. We have five replicas reported at the hearing of myrela holly's colleague. We'll start with those replicas first. Igor Chešek first came forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25333	Thank you. My colleague Holly, you've been very good at saying that the government should have a clear strategy to increase the production of biofuels and its use. Unfortunately, however, the government does not have a strategy such as no other strategy, but everything is done and the laws are passed from the hills, from the valley. With this reduction in the cost of stimulating biofuel production, we're certainly going to lose a lot. Imagine how many people could hire in the biofuels processing industry, and even if we can't produce enough raw materials for that processing industry, we can import it. We better import oil rape and process it in our processing facilities, rather than importing meat past the expiry date according to EU standards that ends meat on the shelves. Import the raw materials and start our production capacity, start the factories. That way we'll certainly start the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25334	Thank you, too. We have an answer to the replica of Mirel Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25335	Dear colleague, the key question is how much in Croatia we actually have a biofuel manufacturer and how much of these biofuel producers can pay off subsidies and how much their total annual production is. I also agree with you that we should not go to a reduction in the incentive to produce biofuels and that we must go towards the realisation of the national targets that will lead us to have 10% in 2020. But the key question is, I talked a lot about it in my debate on behalf of the club, because the state needs to encourage production, not getting biofuels produced outside. And that's the key thing. But that goal can't be done overnight. That is why it is necessary to step up this goal, and that is the same thing with other renewable energy sources because some other countries, such as the Czech Republic, have gone quite ambitiously with solar energy, and this has proved to be quite devastating for their economy. So a positive effect can be for the environment, but there needs to be a balance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25336	Thank you. Next replica Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25337	Here's my dear colleague, you've shown a surprise. I wonder why this law was not proposed by the Ministry of Economy, i.e. the Croatian Government is proposing these laws. But the defender of this law is the Ministry of Finance. We advocate first of all for, and I think everyone stands here to increase Croatian production of biofuels and even in some other elements. I mean, first of all, the use of waste. First of all, we should leave that outdated EU technology that's related to the so-called. The regional dumps, which Croatia is paying dearly today, I would say to those European concerts that, above all in Croatia, and also a number of other countries, especially this eastern bloc, have entered, sold outdated technology, increased the prices to citizens, etc. etc. This reduction above all of these excise duties as one of the types of parafiscal duties from five to three lipes will certainly not improve the very small production of biofuels anyway, and I agree first of all that these subsidies and these fees would go first and foremost to the promotion of production, and not for some other things like that so far was the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25338	Thank you. Next replica Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mrs. Holly made an excellent finding of the fact that the Croatian economy is in a knockout. Now, I will not only agree but I will go one step further, and since times are sad and rough and difficult then don't blame me for saying that you and the shoes on the floor are this knock-out Croatian economy, and which times unfortunately is done by the statements in the Croatian Parliament. Well, then no one should be surprised that unemployment is growing. Namely, allow me a sentence just because I've often been asked the last few weeks and months why unemployment is growing so rapidly? So at least here in the Parliament we must understand that the average Croatian entrepreneur in 2012, unfortunately, has no impact on the increase in taxes, has no impact on the increase in energy prices, has no impact on the increase in interest or on the increase in the price of raw materials. Unfortunately, it all comes down to the impact on the number of employees and their salary. And that's why unemployment is growing fundamentally, and that's why we're going the wrong way. And that's what we've been talking about for the past few months, actually all year. And I have to go back to the Minister of Labour's statement once again, so it's not just him, there are others who would say the English standing the obvius or those who find it obvious. So we don't expect ministers in the government this year and in a crisis that is deepening to come to terms with the obvious but we expect proposals and solutions. If they don't have them, we'll have them at the HDZ Club and have them listen to what we're saying a few times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25340	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25341	My dear colleague, it seems to me that you've forgotten the situation you've left the state in. The economic situation wasn't so great the moment you handed over to the government of the coalition government, you managed the state for eight years, and we saw what you did. In my speech on behalf of the club, I have made it clear that this law has certain weaknesses, but that its positive intention is not to burden Croatian citizens and citizens additionally in other ways. You talked about it earlier, you spoke more from the aspect of the economy, i.e. economic operators, but I would expect you to know what the real intensity of this law is regardless of all the weaknesses it has in this short law to support this law and to show some solidarity and understanding for the problems facing the Croatian public, i.e. Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25342	Thank you. Next replica, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25343	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your presentation on behalf of the club, you have indeed said a number of arguments repeated on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Bačić, and when it comes to the fact that this bill is very far from fulfilling our obligations in the context of EU accession, so by 2020 we have 10% share of biofuels in oil derivatives as former environment minister, you are aware that, in this way, by amending the law when this fee is now collected with other excise duties on oil products, we cannot, in essence, explain to the European Commission how and how much incentives we have for the production of biofuels in Croatia. It is a fact that, after such a change of law, it remains unclear. I tried a little bit on the basis of the data available on the CROTE page, which says that 76 million kunas of biofuel production from 4 limes per litre arrived in 9 months 2011. If we know the data from the "Croatia Fire" Institute that because of the recession the consumption of oil derivatives is dropping, maybe up to 5% annually, given this reduction from 0.5 to 0.3, it seems to me that in 2013 we will have about 45 million kuna in comparison with what we could have had in the earlier charge to encourage the production of biofuels, compared to the fact that the fee remains the same. This is something that we will find very difficult to achieve in the context of EU accession and meeting our commitments in this way by 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25344	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, fellow Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25345	My dear colleague, you are here talking about something that is not the content of the law. In fact, we don't know whether the government will cut this fee or not. And so far, the law provided for the government to make a decision by November of the current year for next year. So now it's actually the same situation. Only administrative addition of this total amount of excise duties is changed. There is another issue that is very important in this part, and therefore I think it is necessary to bring national targets for each year because here it is not in Croatia's interest to subsidise other economies by mixing biofuels into domestic fuel but rather by working on a gradual, phase-up approach to increasing the production of domestic biofuels and using subsidies. And that's not possible to accomplish overnight. Unfortunately, neither your governments have in these past eight years brought national goals to show some direction towards development in this part. I hope the Government of the Republic of Croatia will change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25346	Thank you. And the last replica, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25347	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Holly, in your presentation, you have greatly repeated what I said on behalf of the HDZ Club, and we agree very much. However, we do not agree on that fundamental one, which is that after a series of irregularities in this law, you still support the basic provision of this law, which is to abolish the purposeal compensation that was the original income of an independent energy market regulator in the Republic of Croatia and to leave its future work and the financing of biofuel production to the good will in the first order of the finance minister. It's a fundamental provision of this law. So in the future, the finance minister will decide. So I would even accept that even though it is unacceptable for me, but I could understand that you do not know other information that is parallel to this debate of the law, which is that the government has already decided to reduce the compensation for the promotion of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia in the following year in 2013 by 40% of fossil fuel distributors. At the same time, it also reduced the compensation or cash incentives or subsidies to biofuel producers in the Republic of Croatia by around 30% and for bioethanol and biodiesel. I'm saying there's no other part of this, and this is just a technical amendment to the law like you said, you could still understand what you said on behalf of the club. But when we know that the government reduces biofuel producers and distributors or fossil fuel, and at the same time reduces compensation and subsidies and incentives for biofuel producers in that part, then it's a significant difference which is why we in the club can't support such a law and I think it's on that track and your thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25348	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. My colleagues, Holly, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25349	My dear colleague, I repeat once again, and according to the current law, the government is making a decision on how to pay for the amount of biofuel production fees. This has not changed and you are wrong given that if we adopt in Parliament this law the government will again have to decide on it and we will see whether it will be a reduction or not. I hope it won't be a reduction, but you should also keep in mind what current production capacities are for the production of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia and whether at this point we are incentivising only what is produced in the Republic of Croatia or we are incentivising foreign economies. I will point out once again, I think it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to develop the production of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia because we will have to meet this goal one way or another by 2020. I think it is in the interest for the Republic of Croatia to produce biofuels itself and not that in 2020, we may have to mix 8% of the bogories from outside produced biodiesel or bioethanol or biogas and then subsidize other economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25350	Thank you very much. Now we move on to the replicas to the exhibition of counterparts Ivo Jelusic. The first person to answer was Đuro Popiè. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's a few things, actually a lot, but I won't have that kind of time. You said correctly, Mr. Jelusic, that the budget is probably the safest thing in the country, and I agree with that, of course, that the budget has its priorities. And the general budget is as sure as those who are paying it, as sure as they are the economy and Croatian citizens are, of course, witnesses throughout this year and all that you have done with these taxpayers. The only thing left for you is the overall decline of all macroeconomic indicators that you are still ruthlessly increasing the tax burden to fill that secure budget. And we can think about what will happen to these revenues when you find out next year and you're already missing 2 and a half billion kuna in the budget and you're already announcing that you're going to cut the salaries linearly for all those who get paid from the state budget. That's how certain those financed from the State budget are today. It's your safety. Further Janah, you, as you probably know, are building, among other things, tanks to store crude oil and oil derivatives. Well, HANDA is also an institution that must be kept in such wells of oil and oil derivatives. So where and which is more natural if JANAF is still a state-owned company and the HANDA state-owned agency to own shares or property of that state-owned company that built oil storage facilities. However, you are still going one step further, you are preventing the purchase or ownership of shares, and you are allowing the establishment of the financing of a company. So HANDA can't even start a daughter's own company that would possibly build those facilities, but of course you remain at the possibility of building an agency-owned facility. What you're really saying is that whoever has the capacity, that HANDA can no longer be the owner of it, you're probably going to take the next step to see who you're going to sell those shares of JANAF and make up for what's missing in your budget while saying that HANDA will continue to build its own capacities. Let's add up a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25352	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Jelusic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25353	Comrade Drinker, it would take me 22 minutes to answer everything you said, and of course I don't have time for that. About the budget and the burden as you said, the burden of the economy, etc. Nothing further we burden the economy nor is there any greater tax pressure on the economy than it was. But what we've done, and that's that we're evenly burdened, which is that we've charged from those of which you couldn't or didn't want to, I would say more because they're not sure why and why they were important to you so you don't charge those taxes. So it's evenly charged out of all equal and not just by some and not by others. Those who are not close to them are charged, and those who are close were probably not charged. Furthermore, it is true that we have made a transition and a pressing e.g. on profit tax. Right, because we want to put a tax on those who live on capital not only from work. It's not just work to be burdened, if someone who has three, four kuna salaries has to pay a few thousand taxes why one who has a 10, 20, or a million kuna doesn't pay taxes on it. Because you would have protected them by now. But we don't want to protect them. You call it tax burden, we don't call it justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25354	And the last replica of Zoran Vinkovic: Here is your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25355	Look, I've got that right by the Rules of Procedure because sometimes I'm in business too. A colleague Jelusic, he says that the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products must know that, rather than mention the HANDA abbreviations, an independent and independent and non-profit public institution established by the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. Now, what my colleague Chesek said and perhaps it wasn't so much louder was heard. On 15 June, a long-standing director, Krešimir Baranovic, was removed from the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products, and a new expert will be appointed to his post, which will, according to what was planned in the 2013 budget, 2014, 2015, 2013. 700 million, 2014. 484 million kuna and 2015 In 2014, 800 million kuna from the state budget, we will obviously have some new sources of Croatian oil sources and will not sell them to Italy as natural gas, so the leader of Split's HNS, Goran Kovacevic, has been appointed to which I changed the statute where it no longer takes 5 years of work and experience in the profession but only 10 years of internship. Something similar was happening on Croatian TV, and this shift will cost all the more than the Republic of Croatia as an expert and there are several similar cases in Croatian waters where some of the SDP sat down beyond the profession and, besides knowledge, cost only this case two million kuna, because this man who had a valid contract for another three years and was an expert in the area and Croatia had no problems with Croatia supplies. [[Intruder: Time fellow, bring an end.]] Well, wait a minute. So with a supply of oil it'll spit out of the state budget two million kunas we're because SDP and HNS split the loot. And that's a fact. And that's why the law changes among other things. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25356	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25357	My colleague Vinkovic, you're talking about people and I'm talking about problems, but good. I was talking in my debate if you were listening about how in 2011 you spent not telling the archio money in that agency and after that reward you should stay there. You obviously think you should, I don't know why. Because you like it when someone spends uncontrollable money or because they're in HDZ, so you prefer it better than someone who's in SDP or HNS, so I don't know why. What makes you think this administration should have stayed? Because of their irresponsible spending of money. So say it out loud. Therefore, if we feel that something is wrong that someone was misbehaving, let them not even continue to do the job. So I don't see any reason for it except that some of you prefer them and some of you prefer them a little bit less.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25358	Thank you. Col. Vinkovic announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure to hear what article of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25359	Article 216 is that I didn't speak here who I preferred and who I preferred and who I hated more. If it's a fact and you're not... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25360	My colleague Vinkovic was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. You didn't explain. Explain what's been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25361	Well, Article 216 was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25362	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25363	Shall I read it?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25364	To read.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25365	Here, just a little bit. Just stop the time, you'll have it very soon. Very soon. And this purified one that hasn't been published in the NN that we're working on. So Article 216. You should have said a warning because first of all, this is a thing that says and demeans or insults did not offend you but hurt me and retreated to the usual way of acting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25366	Have a seat with your colleague Vinkovic. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, I take your word. ... I took my friend Vinkovic's word from you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25367	Already?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25368	Sit down. Yeah. Sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25369	100 times 7 is 700 thousand, and this is 2 million kuna. Here's what I said out loud. If what you said is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25370	We're continuing an individual debate. Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. So I'm going to start my debate again with the finding that this High House is breaking the Rules of Procedure that he brought himself, which is to discuss a agenda item for which no financial resources are provided. What, though, do these two laws give us? These two laws bring us new two budgetary users who have not existed so far and now only one elemental question is being asked whether these budget beneficiaries are in the 2013 budget projections for 2014, 2015, treated as all other budget users? No, they're not. Because when you look at the positions of the Ministry of Economy and the funds provided to HANDA, it's only 700 million. And in all other budget users, this is in accordance with the Budget Law and the obligation to split these costs by type and by place of spending of funds and by programme. It wasn't made here. And why am I saying that? So I'm talking about why he keeps trying to convince us here that this is all happening so that citizens don't get the price of gasoline up there, which is simply not true. If you had done what is regular with the Law on Croatian Roads and Croatian highways and you have defined by law that or by any decision of the Government that this increase of 20 Lips, 15 Lips per litre of gasoline belongs to HANDA, and 5 Lips belong to CROTE then you could say that it is, however you did not. You have done with a regulation what the Government and this House have not passed the law. The legislation defined that the regulation could increase and reduce excise duties on gasoline and other petroleum products was said to intervene on the market in the event of price disturbances without having to convene a meeting of the Assembly, etc. It's that the government can do it. But here you're fundamentally changing things for me. You're changing the core funding of two independent agencies. So from their original incomes, you're putting in budgets by not defining their safe incomes but even by law, you're saying they'll get as much money as they need. Now there is one question, how is it that in 2013 and 2015, the HANDA needs 700 million or 800 million, and HROTE has nothing because you have no budget for it, and in 2014 you predicted 484 million kuna. So this just shows that this law is made back to application. On the other hand, with all due respect to colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, another question is asked, how can you propose a law for which funds are provided in the Ministry of Economy and for which the Ministry of Economy is responsible. So if you claimed that those amendments should not be discussed by the government, then the resolution minister is asking how could you Minister of Economy have been taken into the courtyard and eaten in his backyard. And you've done your part of the job, you've amended the Excise Regulation, but these two amendments to the laws that you're proposing have nothing to do with the Ministry of Finance but have to do with the Ministry of Economy. But I will repeat, it is unfortunate that you have officially responded to the letter and the request of the parent board that the funds are secured in that and that position, as if we can't read the budget and that we don't see what it says in that position. So colleagues and colleagues, you, on this law, with these amendments to the law, have two intentions, if necessary, if you lose money in the state budget to keep the deficit within some limits you will be taken from HANDA and HROTE as long as it takes you as you did in 2011. But what worries me most is what you're going to do with 25% of JANAF shares. That's what my fellow Drinker was talking about. If you really think that one who should take care of the reserves of oil derivatives in the Republic of Croatia should not have the possibility of management rights and the possibility to decide on the development at this time of one of the most potent Croatian companies, then it is very strange. To whom the shares will be sold and to whom it is so much more important than the HANDA, the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament to manage those 25% shares. So let me also conclude that I am not repeating myself with what my colleague Bacic and my colleague, the Drinker, was saying. You are definitely two independent agencies that, regardless of the government's decision on how much it will encourage the production of biofuels, you have taken away any rights, any ability to manage them because they will depend on how much money is voted in the budget. I repeat, if you had determined that HANDA belongs to 15 June, and HROTE 5 June would then have full financial independence and independence, you would have done your financial plans as other budget users who have their own sources of income and could therefore propose to both the Government and the Croatian Parliament some kind of policy. In this way, you only made yourself a fuse for and so tense a budget in 2013 which you are sure at this point will not be possible if you do not take away the Christmas card, the regression and if you do not cut their salaries by a few percent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25372	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. My colleague Branko Bačić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25373	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You are right, so this is not a technical amendment to the law that the Government is trying to explain to us here because if the technical change of the law then 5 drops per litre of fuel now paid by distributors in Croatia CROTE, then the same amount would be paid to the Croatian energy market operator through excise duties to the state budget, and the government would not at the same time as the Parliament proposes this law to now reduce that amount by 40%. Or, on the other hand, if it were a technical change then, instead of 3.46 kuna, how much HROTE has now paid per litre for each of the privileged biofuel producers in the Republic of Croatia, it would not remain at the good will of the Minister of Finance, who will be more than 30% less than the funds in 2012. So this is not about the technical change of the law, the provisions in the Croatian energy market are significantly changed here, and here in a much worse position come the producers of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia, and this law that we are adopting today will happen, followed by two government decisions that were made at the same time as the Government of this law, or the Ministry of Finance, prepared this law to refer to the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25374	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25375	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You're right, my colleague Bačić. I'm just curious about how HROTE's leaders are going to be sent to the Treasury somewhere in 5.1. How the leaders of CROTE will send a request to the Treasury to pay for their electricity and to pay them some other costs. The second thing, I don't know on behalf of what biodiesel producers are going to plan to produce when they just don't see how much HROTE money has because you didn't put it in the budget. If you've seen what the budget looks like, then you have the program spending of money and the place where the money is spent. How are you going to pay HROTE's salary in the first month, no, because you don't have it in your budget, and even your problem is for HANDA because you only have... 700 million kuna. So you're both right, colleague Bačić, and in your basic debate and in this replica, this is not a technical amendment to the law. With this amendment, HROTA loses any independence. Someone else, with a decision on how much a liter of biodiesel is financed, will dictate all the rules. Because look, you in the budget who knows what the situation is going to be. If the fuck starts, they'll have sex with them too. But when they have five limes per litre and it belongs to them like 60 lips on Croatian roads and Croatian highways, no matter what the situation is in the budget. What Croatian citizens pay when they pour a liter of gasoline or diesel into the car of these 60 limes ends up on the giro account of Croatian roads and Croatian highways. They have their own financial plan, which is an integral document when adopting the budget. And in this financial plan, actually Croatian highways are no longer in a consolidated balance sheet. Croatian roads are. Any representative and any citizen can discuss how these funds will be spent. But not in this way. Because if you had defined it specifically by law then you could say that you have achieved what you wanted, but in this way you simply blur things out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25376	And Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25377	I'm quite sure we'd be much better at discussing today if we got a full report on Handa's work as an independent agency. Since these amendments to the law will make her independent as HERA so to speak, she will lose her independence and innocence. I don't think there's anyone who's kinder or more hateful to me, but the fact is that there's a little bit of weird stuff here. The finance ministry is proposing an amendment to the law. That's not what the Ministry of Economy does. At the same time, the budget does not provide money for all types of activity, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Economy is still changing the leader in June. I don't know if my colleague Jelusic was right when he spoke of certain costs that seven members of the agency made during the year. But I'm pretty sure if it's true what he said, that it's somewhere 100,000 per capita of that agency, that's 700 grand. And only for the replacement of HANDE leaders from the state budget or the agency's own funds will be paid not for severance, but probably for a possible court procedure of 2 million kuna. Well, you see, that's math. So we prefer to set up a politically-aware man, replace an expert, and by the way if they are true they state about these 700 000 kunas of some costs that are not covered, but lose an additional million thousand kunas from the budget. It's a clear matter of mathematics. Both HANDA and HERA as well as all other agencies and various various ministries and cabinets are exclusively the division of prey within the Kukuriku coalition Let's put ours on even if they're incompetent, and let's change other people's minds even if they're capable or even non-partisan. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25378	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25379	That fellow Vinkovic, you are right that in this position that the Ministry of Finance responded to the Committee on Finance A822052 stands for 700 million HANDA, then it is distributed for wages so much, for contributions so much, for the material costs so much, for the energy so much, the funds for maintaining the stock reserves, oil derivatives for 90 days then you could tell me about what you were just talking about. But imagine for Handa it says 700 million, but for HROT it doesn't say anything. We don't even know about her. They're in the fog budget. They don't exist in the budget. But one question arises if we really wanted to do what we're saying why HANDA and HROT don't have in the budget the same treatment as all the budget users. And a change in excise duty has nothing to do with this law. He had to change the Expenses Act. And I repeat, if we wanted well, that Handa and HROTE work well we should have applied a similar principle to the roads and highways and to them belong so much and so much money. If someone thinks they have an excess of financial resources, the government has the possibility as the owner to have the surplus in some other way. They're not God-given that no one can order them. They're independent, but there's a priest over there. Therefore, they too may be ordered by gentlemen, you have spent so much and so much money, and in the end it happened in the 2011 budget. 500 million kuna of HANDA is the budget in the budget. I'm just saying, I don't understand why the ministry that isn't responsible for this is so stubbornly insisting on solutions that are simply not good, they're simply not good. And when you look at the decision of the Croatian Parliament on floating or swimming excise duties, then you will see that the Parliament decision does not refer to such things as you are now talking about but only for interventions in the event of market disturbances can be increased or reduced But you introduce new vision, finance. [[Thank you very much.]] You were supposed to settle this with a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25380	Proposer's closing statement, Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25381	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here's my thanks on behalf of the promoter, all the clubs at the debate. I wouldn't be too long, because here they're actually saying one thing and the other. I must say, and I certainly thank all the clubs and the HDZ Club for certain suggestions and their remarks. I just have to say that the intensity is, and that's why it's so done here that the government is proposing this law. So, not the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of Economy. The two ministers were involved in this part of the excise duty, and since there were regulations on the increase in that part of the excise duty and the elimination of these fees agreed to be in this one package, in fact, since these regulations were part of this package, so they replied that this part made it easier to present these laws. The government of the Republic of Croatia has authorized the Ministry of Finance to present the law. I'm telling you again with that intention, so it was to create a model in which, in fact, there is no way of increasing prices without satisfying the minimum excise duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25382	Replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25383	So I agree with you completely in this part of what you're saying, but you must understand one thing about excise duty regulation or the Special Tax Act, and you here have not increased or reduced the excise duty as the minister announced in the 5th month that it will reduce excise duties due to a reduction in fuel prices, in fact that it will increase excise duties, but you have done something here, you have here instead of something financed in one way transferred to financing through excise duties. And you just had to settle it by law, not by this regulation. And the other thing you know well is that if a budget user gets funds so you can't say that someone who gets a million kunas from the budget and has one or two employees and has some small programming activities has a fragmented budget intensities, and here is 700 million kuna is just one position. And BOTH is not mentioned anywhere. You can't say that you've provided HROT funds here because HROTE and HANDA are two if you want different legal entities and these are two budget users. And you don't have any money for HROT at the moment, you can't find it in the 2013 Budget. So that's what this is about. And the fact that you're going to pick up about 500, 600 or 700 million more from the base of excise duty is how you set the law has nothing to do with this. You turned HANDA and HROTE into a classic budget user. With expenditures as approved by the Government. Because at the end of the day, you said in the law, not that they would get as much money as they would get from excise fees, but how much money they needed. So, I'm only talking about those things that you wrote, not what we make up. So if you're saying they're going to get how much money they need, then it's no longer about those 20 limes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25384	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25385	Thank you. I don't know if you listened to my final presentation I didn't say you were making it up, I just thanked you for your constructive and professional discussion. I don't know why you said that I... Okay, thanks. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25386	I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the proposal for both laws once the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25387	Final proposal of the Law amending the Biofuels Act for transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 223. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead, who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 92 votes in favour and 35 votes against the adoption of the Law amending the Biofuels Act for transport in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25481	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Audit, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 233 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25482	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You have before you a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit with a final draft of the law. Amendments to the Revision Act are the result of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the obligation to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act adopted by the Government at the meeting held on 5 July 2012. Therefore, in the applicable Revision Act, the provisions prescribed by the subsidiary are deleted... The law on administrative procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Paragraph 6 of the applicable law. Article 74 of the applicable law is amended as, in accordance with the Law on Administrative Disputes of 1.01.2012, the administrative dispute shall be brought before the local administrative court, rather than under the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the aim is to improve the quality of financial reports and the consequent protection of investors, creditors and other non-preferential participants to request a review of financial reports. Article 6a is added to the subject-matter of amendments and additions of the Revision Act, which provides for the obligation to revise the annual separate and consolidated financial statements of all stakeholders and companies with limited liability, whose separate, i.e. consolidated total income in the year that passed 30 million kuna in the previous audit, and... the annual financial reports shall not be subject to the provisions of Article 17(1) and (2); The accounting law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 6a of this Act will enter into force on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. This approach is based on the fourth Council Directive 78/660/EC of 25 July '78. the year, and such an obligation already existed in the Law on Audit, but amendments and additions from 2008 were planned to end it by the basis of EU accession. The Directive leaves the country with the possibility of an assessment and states that they may and may not have to abolish the audit obligation for these categories of obligors. However, in accordance with market conditions, the importance of retaining the audit obligation of these categories of obligors has been established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25483	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of Croatian Labour Labour Labour Lab and colleague Nancy Tyrelli who does not have so the club loses the right to talk about this point. Next up is the HDZ Club and colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25484	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Assistant. Well, here's another one today, so to speak the technical financial law, so where the Revision Act is aligned with the Administrative Procedure Act, and that's something that's not questionable. However, I think that here today, however, when we talk about the revision and the experiences of the first adoption of the Law on the revision of its application to date, we should talk about some other things. We often talk about unpaid obligations, we talk about paid bills many times, and then we ask one basic question that we have tried even after writing basic laws and later amending laws, which is what is the responsibility of authorised auditors when they sign an audit report if a later inspection comes and determines certain irregularities in the company? I had the opportunity to, as chairman of the Supervisory Board of a large state firm when there was an audit report, ask him whether it means now that we in the Supervisory Board can be safe after your report, after a report from the board that everything is safe here and that we can say what is said quietly and peacefully sleep because if you have a company that negotiates and manages affairs if you have financial experts there, if you have auditors who pay fatly and they make their report and everyone submits that everything is wonderful and wonderful and then eventually comes some inspection report and determines some kind of irregularities and who is guilty. In principle, if someone is politically active then he's the biggest culprit, regardless of what I say, he was nowhere near the business events that happened here and I think that's why I'm talking, which is why I've been starting from the moment the law was passed, from the moment the audit chamber was set up that maybe we should think about it. Why? Because many audits carried out in companies are done not because the owner wants them to do so but because the legislator has prescribed that someone has so much and so much traffic must carry out a commercial audit because they have to carry out the report. So also here in this Appendix, excuse me, it's about the financial reports of the stock companies and command companies I think this is Article 17. introduces commitments that have individual incomes greater in the previous year than 30 million kuna to have the obligation to submit for the implementation of the audit. However, when you look at the total amount of their turnover, auditors have a certain tariff, the amount they must pay to carry out that audit is not small at all. And what bothers me most most is that the Ministry of Finance as a home and as a legislator of the law has tried all the time to create the preconditions that in Croatia several audit societies can unite and can run for the revision of the city and the revision of the Ina or HT because I think that no audit society can do so on its own for the reason that we don't get one reputed house from the outside, take the Croatian experts who make the audit, take them for change, and the cream and butter pick up those, the lupe printers, in principle who did the job, have done the job of wrestling again and therefore, given all these experiences, I think that when we change the laws we should think about these, and these laws, not because unfortunately in Croatia, there are a lot of services which, because of their lobbying, have resulted in certain incomes. Why? Because the law said that someone must do something regardless of their responsibility, and then all those who and some who wrote those laws went into those activities live in a clean manner. So to conclude, we will support these amendments to the law, I say, when it comes to technical amendments to the law, you should think about it, you need to know that today, out of hundreds and a few thousand other companies, many leaders, owners, representatives of supervisory boards, directors may not be financially educated people. They may not pay every year, pay every three, four to have a company audited, to warn them of certain failings and even about making certain business decisions whether the process could have been better and better quality, that the decision could have been better, they would have paid them neatly, they would suggest something, come to them tomorrow Tax Administration or someone else, establish a series of irregularities, a man should pay a great tax, can unfortunately file a criminal complaint against him and whoever examined all these papers nicely took us compensation and nothing. This isn't any populist speech, this is, I used to say this when I was a minister because I just think this is something we have to do. Maybe we couldn't do it in the first year because there were a lot of arguments about the structure of the chamber and everything, but I think it's just that if someone took someone's money to go through some papers and wrote that everything was okay. Then, after that, the members of the Supervisory Board and the management should be sure that these papers are at least somewhat o.k.a.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25485	Thank you. SDP club and colleague Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25486	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. Of the total of 7 articles, amending and supplementing this law, 6 comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act relating therefore to the decision of the Croatian Audit Chamber relating to the public oversight procedure, relating to the lodging of a written objection to the order for the removal of identified irregularities, etc. And that is why we can really talk about the technical changes to this law. However, the novelty in the law constitutes Article 6a which prescribes the obligation to audit the annual separate and consolidated financial statements of all those companies, companies and companies with limited liability whose separate or consolidated total income in the year preceding the year of the audit exceeds 30 million kuna, which are not audit bonds under the provisions of the Accounting Act. The 2008 Law amending and supplementing the 2008 Revision Act has abolished the obligation of reviewing the current EU accession. Because such an option was given by the fourth European directive of 1978. However, while respecting the experience of current audit practices in the Republic of Croatia as well as the direction in which the EU operates with regard to the revision, this group of debtors is again becoming the bonds of the audit. This also ensures greater protection of investors and greater protection of creditors and all other participants in the capital market, and this is the main reason why the SDP club supports the amendments and additions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25487	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. She's a colleague of Nevenka Becic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25488	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. Reading this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Audit submitted by the Government to this House for consideration with the proposal to adopt it, with the reason that it is the harmonisation of Croatia's legislation with EU legislation, I cannot help but look back at some circumstances that are not even covered by the basic Law on Audit as well as amendments and additions to the 2008 Revision Act and not even by this amendment and supplementation that we are discussing today. In fact, what I would personally and specifically like to focus on, and the proposing, is to warn that the Law on Audit and Amendments and the additions to the 2008 Revision Act is prescribed in which way and under which conditions a certificate and the calling of an authorised auditor can be obtained. Of course, auditors are professional independent persons who receive this certificate from the Croatian Audit Chamber. And that in a way that they meet the following conditions, first to have high professional training, then to have a good reputation that implies that they prove that they are not legally convicted. However, in addition to these two assumptions and the conditions for access to an audit exam with the aim of obtaining a certificate from an authorised auditor, interested individuals must fulfil one condition which, in my opinion, is that they have at least three years of work as auditors means on jobs not as auditors but in audit operations with at least two years of mentorship by an authorised auditor. I think that this condition should be complemented in a way that the right to obtain a certificate and to call an authorised auditor may also have highly educated professional and professional persons performing the professional and professional tasks of accounting manager or accounting and accounting and economic sector directors, and such tasks shall be carried out for 10, 15, 20 and more years. We all know that in our working life every individual wants and has an interest in progress, to advance in the profession, to advance professionally in career, but the Accounting Act makes it impossible for a large number of interested individuals who have fulfilled what is most important so they have a high education, have some that I personally know and have a doctorate, would like to deal with the review, would like to prove professionally in this area, but behold, the law makes it impossible for them. I think that this is an injustice that, by emergency procedure, the proponent should put in the procedure and, of course, correct it because it is to the detriment of many individuals, and to the benefit of those who currently possess such a certificate and, of course, have a monopoly in carrying out audit work. And in that sense, this is my proposal to the Proposer to work towards correcting this injustice against a large number of professional individuals. The next thing I know by reading this amendment and by supplementing the Audit Act is Article 6a, which seeks to improve the quality of basic financial reports and consolidated reports in order to protect investors and creditors and all those participating in the capital market according to their interpretations. So I personally believe that the most important interests in protection are the owners of capital, owners and shareholders and limited liability companies because they are the most called and most interested in protecting their interest and ownership, i.e. that audit reports or audits are carried out among other things with a view to protecting their capital and their interest. The proposer states that there is a basis for these amendments and the addition of the Law on the revision of the financial reports and consolidated reports for all stakeholders for all... companies and limited liability companies, for individual and consolidated financial reports for all those that have been added up from the previous year, which precedes the audit exceeding 30 million kuna. Of course, if we adopt today, or Friday, when we vote on this proposal to amend and supplement this Revision Act, we will lead to the fact that this law with these amendments and additions is contrary to Article 17. The accounting law as a result of Article 17. The accounting law explicitly states that the audit is carried out by large entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs and those whose shares and securities are included in the securities market or are in preparation for inclusion in that market. Therefore, if this proposal is accepted, the Proposer should also put in the procedure amendments and additions to the Accounting Act and so as not to be contrary to the Revision Act with these amendments and additions. I would also refer to the applicant's interpretation that small entrepreneurs based on Article 6a after the adoption of this Amendment and the addition of the Revision Act become bonds of implementation of the audit. I don't think that's good because these small entrepreneurs have a lot of problems in maintaining their liquidity and insolvency, retaining existing jobs, opening new jobs because, of course, they are expected to be one of the drivers of economic development in the Republic of Croatia. In this way, by putting them in a position to become bonds to carry out their companies' audits, they increase their operating costs in such a way that they will have to pay for the audit service. The service of conducting audits costs, it is negotiated and not small. It is not true that the basis of the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU legislation and small bonds must become bonds over which audit services will be performed and implemented. Namely, the proposal to amend the European Union Directive of November 2011 amended the definition of legal review, which reads as follows: legal review means the revision of annual financial reports or consolidated financial reports, and that is, if required by the basis of European Union law, binding upon the basis of national law for small entrepreneurs to be applied voluntarily, carried out voluntarily by small entrepreneurs. So I'm throwing out my aspirations for this voluntary implementation by small entrepreneurs, so in this sense I propose to the promoter that small bonds continue not to be obliged to carry out an audit precisely for the reasons of the increase in operating costs that will thus be passed to them by applying and accepting amendments and supplementing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25489	Thank you very much. Before I give the final word to the proposer's representative, colleagues and colleagues, given the time for discussion, we will move forward on the agenda, so we will have a proposal for a law on residence, a register of voters and a joint debate on amendments and additions to the Law on local, regional, regional self-government and local elections, so I ask you in clubs to inform your members who will speak on behalf of the club or individually that we will continue to do the following points. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25490	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, as we have actually presented, it is mainly about harmonising with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and that is why the Proposer has actually proposed an emergency procedure to comply with this law. What opened the question of Mr. Shucker, I agree that this question was actually created and out there by many investors when actually the companies in which they invested capital were found in problems and then the responsibility of auditors was raised. I agree with that. And this thing with my colleague Bencic opened the same question that I have to be honest with myself when I was moving the same thing in the private sector, that is, when I was employed, I was also struggling with why only they and you had school and experience, etc. I have to be honest here that it's been bothering me, too, and that's why we said why they can only be certain, that's to say if you set the same one, so whoever passes the exam can be a much fairer and more correct match. We will certainly classify these suggestions because they require a more comprehensive debate. These suggestions, not only this proposal, but what they said next, will certainly be taken seriously, because we are now starting a more comprehensive revision of the Revision Act where this issue and certification will certainly be opened, and this issue of accountability. Because if you link the issue of certification to the question of responsibility then let's also say the same question is raised by those who sign such audit reports to respond to their assets so that there must be one sure responsibility and counterweight. So I thank you for the debate. Here's today we had 5.6 laws and I thank you again. Here this year we've been hanging out a lot, I don't know if I'm going to have any more in this year, whether I'm going to have a debate, but here's who you are to wish you Merry Christmas and this year, and hopefully next year there'll be fewer issues. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25491	Thank you very much. We've been working for another three days, and we can see each other. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on the agenda point. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25492	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 233. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead, who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes, with 126 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention, have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Auditing in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25493	We move to - Final proposal of the residence law, second reading, PZ No. 143 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25494	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I would immediately list a few things that are related between the first and second readings and the changes that have happened. First of all, in the name itself, the concepts were used and the bill of residence was the law of residence, but in the final draft of the law which was before you, we replaced it with the notion of residence for the reason that we also accepted the position of the debate which was here in the Croatian Parliament, but also the opinion of constitutional and legal experts, and that there is essentially no significant difference between the concepts of residence and permanent residence, i.e. that only the difference in name, not in fact, and given the attached name of this institute in our legal order for the sake of legal certainty, clarity and legal order was directed to put and use the concept of residence. Therefore, the final proposal for a residence law is before you. We have partially amended the provisions of Article 6 relating to the establishment of a homeless person’s residence. These changes have been made in order to identify homeless people who do not have a residence and who do not have the conditions to register their residence with a solution in the address of the social care institution or other accommodation service providers, as this is the only address with which that category of person has a connection. To clarify, it is clear that social care institutions are not housing facilities or addresses at which residence can be registered in terms of the definition of residence, such as in Article 2(1) of the proposed law. But in this case, it is also not about the application of residence by homeless persons, but about the establishment of a residence by a police administration solution or becoming that a homeless person may, on the basis of a established residence, establish a personal identity card as a basic identification document and exercise certain rights arising from residence. In addition, a provision has been added to persons who report their residence and residence to another person, i.e. in the case of landlords, must also be accompanied by the consent of the landlord for the application. This protects the right of the landlord, and makes it impossible for third parties without its consent in the address of the property he owns to apply for residence and residence, as has been the case so far. Since the consent granted by the landlord to the person who gives the apartment for use is not a guarantee that the person will actually report the residence or residence is added a provision to which the landlord is obliged within 15 days of the day when he gave the apartment to another person for use, for a period of more than 3 months, to provide local police administration or to the station details of the person who gave the apartment for use, and the place and address where the apartment is located. The police department and the station shall record the data in the data collection on residence and residence. In addition, the final proposal for a residence law provides for the procedures for the check-out of official duty in the database on residence and residence of persons who have turned out never to have lived in the registered address as well as persons living at the address of the registered residence but who have moved to another place in the Republic of Croatia or have moved out of the Republic of Croatia, and have not reported a change of residence, or have checked out their residence in the Republic of Croatia. In order to avoid certain concerns that have been raised in the first reading debate, it is intended to delete the residence application in the data collection on residence and residence. In the final proposal, we changed this in a way that instead of the term "wipe" we use the term "out" in official duty. Therefore, the persons who are in the proceedings for them are found not to live at the address of the registered residence shall not be deleted from the residence and residence database as if they had never been recorded in that collection, but those persons in the data collection of residence and residence will be registered the date on which they are officially appointed under Article 12 of the Law. Personal data of the person will remain recorded in the data collection on residence and residence. But from the day of the check-out, persons will not have their place of residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia until the day when they do not re-register their residence in a place where they have indeed settled if they are located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I've listed the most important changes that have been. I must also point out that the amendment which was of a technical nature highlighted on the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the Committee on Legislatives can immediately say that I have proposed that it be accepted. We'll see if the government accepts that. I believe that and such suggestions that were in repair, of course, that they came well. I believe there will be more issues after the debate. I will be able to answer any further questions related to the Final Proposal of the Housing Act. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25495	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists – party of work of colleague Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25496	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Minister. I'll be less speaking than the minister said, just a few sentences. And the previous few laws we commended the legislator for respecting both the remarks and what the legislator had taken one big step forward. This law is an example, so the final proposal for a law on residence on which we almost have no objections, almost everything we have proposed as a club of Croatian Labour Lawmakers, is respected and we think that such a law in this final text is acceptable and I hope that this practice will be respected in this way and in the future. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25497	Thank you very much. SDP club and co-worker Vesna Fabiančić Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25498	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Minister. Here is the SDP club that will also join the government's praises and the entire course that this law has been passed with a very wide and previous debate and debate itself. And of course listening to all the quality remarks that are ultimately and respected. So, the final draft of the law that is before us is certainly a prerequisite primarily to combat various abuses that we can so freely say enjoyed over the past years, abuses that have cost many times dearly. For years we spoke and witnessed numerous irregularities and malfeasances when it came to reporting residences and residences. It has often happened that people have IDs with false addresses, and the Ministry of the Interior cannot log them out of that address without their personal request. Now the applicable law does not provide an option to delete or log out persons from the registration by automated or official duty. Even when it is unequivocally established that a person has moved out of Croatia or that he does not reside in a registered address, the current law does not know the possibility of automatic erasing or checking out persons from police records under official duty. So we have a final proposal that has been trying too long to come. Although it has been known for years that the regulation of this issue is a prerequisite for preventing the abuse of rights arising from residence and residence, the prerequisite for setting up the voter census was not a political will to be a credible state with credible institutions. This claim is accompanied by a number of data. For example, around 190 thousand Croatian citizens took out their passport abroad, and did not make their ID card along with their passport, and besides their passport, they did not make their ID card, although they now have a registered residence in Croatia. Of these 190,000 Croatian citizens, a personal ID card expired for 60,000, only 3800 wanted extensions until as many as 40,000 people had never asked for a ID card. On the other hand, at the Ministry of Administration, they assume there are 300-500 extra names on the list without a diaspora. Among them are persons who have never even lived in the Republic of Croatia but have been reported, people who once lived in Croatia have moved away and never checked out. This law is important because its implementation can lead to a list of voters who will be able to compare themselves with the census and we hope that the next local elections will be more regular because every Croatian citizen has the right to vote. The voter list's problem is not a problem with the right to vote but rather with the right to vote. As far as local elections are concerned, all Croatian citizens do not have the right to vote but only those who have residence in a local self-government unit. The problem with voter lists is the regularity of local elections in certain municipalities and cities. What I am saying is the problem of regularity and, on the other hand, the question of fictitious voters is not only a question of the voters list, because people, i.e. citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia, have not reported themselves on the list, but many have applied for some rights based on the application of residence. And it is therefore really important to pass this law after the debate has been held, after certain remarks have been adopted and certain proposals have been adopted, we have come up with a quality proposal. What is extremely important is that this law creates preconditions for the reduction of chaos in which there is now no possibility, as I have announced earlier, of a person’s residence without his personal request. The conditions are created that there will be no rule but an exception that a person who has nothing to do with a registered residence because he does not reside in the registered address still has an address in which the address where he does not reside and exercises the right to proceed with the basis of that residence. The residence and residence records of citizens must correspond to the real state of residence of citizens. The residence is based on a series of rights provided for in specific regulations, social welfare rules, health care regulations, tax regulations and many others. The record in a regulated state always corresponds to the real state. This final bill is a prerequisite for a regulated state and the credibility of its institutions and therefore we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25499	Thank you. Next up is the HDZ Club. On behalf of the club will speak Davorin Mlakar and Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25500	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It may be unusual, but let me, in this speech in front of the HDZ Club, welcome first one intention and the result that the government has achieved, which is the fact that for the second reading, this is a law in the first reading, I would say so, because in the first reading, the law was about the place where the government was trying to argue that the term of permanent and temporary residence is something better than now the legal term is back to having the residence law. And on this side, we are really obliged to commend the Government because it seems to me that our observations are that it is a residence, and we have warned that, by amending the Constitution in Article 45, it has become a constitutional term, that a much more quality solution is a termological distinction than where you are staying, and that it will remain a residence, and that the place where you have permanently settled is a residence regardless of the previous discussions of some colleagues, it seems to us that this is a very good solution and we welcome the government's willingness to accept our remarks and to amend the law and in the name, therefore in the very name of the law, and then even in the terms that have already been said, we would be home in theory and in practice. It is likely, as it says, that the government has not stubbornly insisted on terms that could only further complicate solutions. As for what she said and her colleague in front of the SDP club, we are also supporters of once finally resolving the preconditions because we also see this law on residence so that tomorrow or unfortunately we seem to be already talking about the voters' register today because the change in the residence law is a prerequisite for the amendment of the Law on the register of voters and the final settlement of the voter list. However, regardless of the government’s commendable efforts, we have several suggestions since it is a second reading we would like the government to try and work on these provisions of the law because it seems to us that the law might be even better. This law introduced something new, and this is the possibility of changing the residence register under official duty, which so far has not been legally possible, although there has been no personal application of the change in residence, could not have affected the quality of the data on the residence managed by the competent authorities. This time, and this was the proposal and the law even during the Government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, it was a proposal to remove it from the residence register of a person who is not doubtless established that they do not reside at the address which is registered or which is in the register. However, this authority may have been understood a little too broadly, and we wanted to make a few suggestions so that this law might be completed in that part. In accordance with Article 12, it is prescribed that a decision should be made under official duty on the check-out of residence of persons who themselves have not done so if the field check finds that a person does not actually live in a registered address or is informed by the public authority and other legal and natural persons if we even retain that it is possible for any natural person to inform the police authority that the person is not staying at a specific address. In particular, because of such opportunities for state administration authorities to act, it seems to us that it is not an adequate solution to then say in the last paragraph that a solution is to remove someone from their residence at a particular address and not to make an appeal. It is obvious that as soon as an administrative dispute can be initiated, it is possible for any person against whom a solution is made and there is reason to complain that it is allowed to appeal in the administrative procedure, and only if this appeal is not a solution that will be satisfactory for the parties to remain the possibility of starting a administrative dispute by warning that this is an additional accumulation of problems before the Administrative Courts and that it will certainly delay the proceedings and likely to make a final decision on the administrative dispute will greatly delay a solution to some issues, most often the issues are asked in front of local or parliamentary elections. In addition, this law has not resolved another question because it is only about the obligation of some to report or log out their residence did not comfort the question of all of our citizens who, due to the extreme financial reasons which are the case especially for the city of Zagreb and who live in Zagreb, have reported their residence outside the city of Zagreb in order to avoid paying taxes or some of the other taxes prescribed for residents of a given area. And apart from these objections, the only one yet but very important is the fact that there are persons to whom this law does not apply. We also said this in the first reading, so the obligation to register or to delete from a specific address applies to everyone except two categories of residents. One of those who left their residence for temporary departure outside the Republic of Croatia and informed the competent authority about the reasons for the temporary departure have submitted the relevant documentation and other documents covered by the renovation and housing programme and the real estate has not yet been restored and returned to them or not otherwise taken care of in the Republic of Croatia. We think that by introducing certain specific categories to which the law does not apply, and that there are no specific deadlines within which those persons should then consume their rights, or we feel that you are discriminating against all other citizens who can be covered by the application of this law and that they will not simply be able to benefit from exceptions that apply to quite certain groups of residents. Therefore, we suggest on behalf of the club that the promoter check this exception one more time and see if it can be solved in a better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25501	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor. Several additional comments continued on the presentation of fellow Mlakara. The key of today's housing bill is a natural order, and in a certain way I would say clearing up the situation that we have in the last 20 years. And it is good that the name of the law has changed in relation to the right and the second reading, and in its provisions, in particular, to the definitions in Article 2(2), the concept of residence, in accordance with the terms we have in Article 45. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, the clarity of this law of this important Law on residence followed by the consumption of a series of rights of Croatian citizens and also political rights will be resolved in a more appropriate manner. What we must mention and discuss in the context of this law is the most important provision, of course, and the head of this law is the head of the establishment of a real residence and the check-out of the residence and residence data collection, which confers powers on the competent authorities in relation to the positive regulations, in particular in this case the MUP and the police administration to make a decision under official duty on the check-out of a person’s residence if the field check finds that the person does not actually live in a registered address or is informed by other public authorities or interested persons. So this ex-officio power of police administrations will in the future be one new mechanism which, compared to what Col. Mlakar said other than two exceptions, will in some way be the mechanism and will have consequences on both the voters' list and the voter's register, so also in consummating political rights. In the context of this law, I think it is important to refer to some other recent changes relating to the electoral law, particularly the number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament from the diaspora. We know that we had the last solutions that were initially 12 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, later we had an unfixed quota, by amending the 2010 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia we have three MPs. This law may also have certain consequences in terms of one trend that is clearly visible, which is that for example, in the 2007 elections for the Croatian Parliament of more than 400 thousand registered voters abroad, we had an outing of just over 90 thousand voters. In the 2011 elections, that number decreased significantly. There were just over 20,000 voters. In a referendum on EU membership, the number was even lower. This is what I am saying in the context of the fact that by allowing citizens of Croatian nationality to gain citizenship in the years that followed us in order to have political rights and to have the possibility to participate in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, these moves, which I have stated, appear to be in practice particularly interested in the fact that voting has been made possible exclusively in diplomatic missions and consular offices. Therefore, the solutions currently proposed will certainly have an effect on those so-called moments. The cross-border character where some people may have had a residence in the Republic of Croatia, and they were not in a certain way permanently inhabited according to the definitions that are today. That is why it would be good to have these very exceptions discussed by his colleague, Mlakar, analyzed and the ministry to see if these solutions on the table today are the most appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25502	Thank you very much. It's the HDSSB and counterpart Dinko Buric's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25503	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Although I'm not up to it, I have to point out, I'm not up to debate, but good. All right, let's do it. [[Intruder: As soon as you are announced your turn.]] In any case, today's bill of law must be recognised as having complied with a lot of objections to the original proposal, and on this side that's good. However, I will be brief and clear about the HDSSB's Club of Representatives. This proposal of the law we had, and on the committee just before the debate, used the terms of discrimination, discrimination and the like, as the arguments were used, that the basic objective of this law was to introduce order in a problem which has already been said several times, and here it has been for twenty years now. I believe that this bill does not introduce order in the way that we really want to introduce order, so we could do it. The aim of this law is to create assumptions for the right to vote and should be made clear and loud. If you can't even say that he's discriminating I'll repeat the term that I have here and in the debate at the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security said, then he can be called favoring for certain targeted groups of Croatian citizens. In a clear and loud way, order is being introduced and we are not against it, order should be introduced, but such legal solutions are primarily intended to introduce order, under quotes when it comes to the rights of Croatian citizens of Croatian nationality in BiH. That's clear and loud. And on the other hand, when it comes to the rights of Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality living in the Republic of Serbia, then, for them, such a legal solution is kept at the very least status quo. Now, if you've denied one of them what they've had so far, and you've reserved the same rights for others, and what comes out of Article 12(5), I think, as well as Article 18, then it can't be said that this law applies equally to all Croatian citizens. And precisely because, in our opinion, such a legal solution is to the harm of Croatian citizens of Croatian nationality who are Croatian citizens, although living in BiH, who will exercise their right to vote by going to consulates at only a few places in BiH, and on the other hand, we will still have the fact that at each election, they will be for local or regional self-government units or for elections for the Croatian Parliament, they will have situations that Croatian citizens of Serbian nationalities currently living in the Republic of Serbia will be brought here to consume their right and return to where, in fact, many of them are actually, not currently living. And there is no justification for how order should be introduced so that those who do not live here will not be allowed to make the fate of those living in the Republic of Croatia. That would be true if it applied to everything. But if someone is going to come here for a vote and go back then they will, and I'm not sure how much everyone really wants back to the Republic of Croatia, but everyone is welcome as it was said on the board, and that's what General Gotovina called for, everyone who wants to come back should come back. However, I am not convinced that everyone will take advantage of that possibility even if it is given to them. The right to vote towards the residence leads to an unequal position of Croatian citizens of Croatian nationality who do not live in the Republic of Croatia compared to Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality who also do not live in the Republic of Croatia and should be made clear and loud. And that is why the proposer of this law, if he really wanted to introduce order then would have put all Croatian citizens who do not live in the Republic of Croatia in the same position. One of the colleagues on the board said I disagree with the decision being made by those who live here and asking God to rain elsewhere. In this way, we will have this situation, only for one part of Croatian citizens, and it doesn't matter now what nationality they are, they are all Croatian citizens. And not to say again, for the HDSSB club, such a legal solution which does not respect these justified examples of at least putting the target group of Croatian citizens in a privileged position, and here I do not think it would again be unmistakable for Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality who do not live in the Republic of Croatia compared to another group of Croatian citizens who are placed in a subordinate position, then it is a very bad and dangerous rule that again puts some of them in a position to be more equal. If you want this legal solution to all Croatian citizens to be uniform, and we stand for it, if we are making order on one side, then order on the other side, then there can be no privilege among those in a subordinate position. Either leave them in the same position or in one sense or another. For this reason, the HDSSB Representatives Club will not support such a legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25504	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. He's my first colleague, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25505	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You see, we all agree that order should be introduced. However, we do have if you want bigger and constitutional disorder because there is a provision in the Constitution that Croatian citizens living abroad can only vote in the DKPs. This automatically abolishs the constitutional right guaranteed for people to vote. With this law means to increase fellow Plenkovic talked about the number of already deleted which hundreds of thousands have already seized the right of 200 thousand actually at the beginning. Now it will be even more, and on the other hand here is one additional discrimination against Croatian citizens who live, let's take Bosnia and Herzegovina than Canada who have houses here, build factories here, invest capital here. They shall have no right to dwelling or dwelling because they claim to live in one land, but they pray to God for rain or I do not know what else. Therefore, it is just another discrimination that this Law will simply confirm and will not escape. So on the other hand, I think that this law, regardless of the good intensities, has simply not solved the problem, and on the other hand it sends the wrong message to all Croatian citizens living outside Croatia not to count on Croatia anymore, not to invest in Croatia, not to return to Croatia. So on the other hand, I think this law is a step back.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25506	The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25507	Thank you. Dear fellow Tudjman, I agree with you. And that's what I was talking about on behalf of the club. Either we put everything in the same position or we don't put everything in the same position. If they have to go to diplomatic and consular representations. Croatian citizens in any country outside the Republic of Croatia then need this regardless of nationality in every country, and not one will be brought by buses here, and the other will be sent to Tuzlo, Mostar, Sarajevo, Banja Luka or I don't know. Is there 4 or 5 seats in BiH? Enough. Right? And it is clear that in this way their right, this is not about residence and residence, this is about exercising the right to vote. That's the whole point. Which of the Croatian citizens will both in how and where they will exercise their constitutional right. We are about for it to be equal to everyone not defending anyone from having less right to take part in the vote. Even those who come to the buses have the right to do so are Croatian citizens. But then let them go to the consulates, and We will determine how many of them there are, and we will see how many of them will come to the vote. As will the situation now with Croatian citizens in BiH. Or may everyone have as right as they've had so far. I'm not the one for that situation to keep the dead from voting. In that sense, order should be introduced and it is not a dilemma at all. But I'm not in favour of the vote either of those who shot the Croatian state, they never wanted it, and now they're coming up with the daily here and then they're setting us up with the fate of what Croatia's power in Croatia will ultimately look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25508	Replica Igor Radjenović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25509	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Buric, I'm glad and I support that part of your debate when you said that, therefore, you support the introduction of order and that this law in its largest part, so introduces order in this area not only about voting, but about many other areas. I also support what you said about the fact that it's not good for people in Croatia to come and vote on buses. I agree with you, too. And as you yourself have said, I will repeat this part of the discussion that we had on the Committee on Internal Policy when you said that your club does not agree with, therefore, this pre-lated article of Article 12 that, therefore, it will not be a solution for the provision of residence to persons covered by the reconstruction or housing programme, and their real estate has not yet been restored, returned or otherwise not taken care of in the Republic of Croatia. The end of the quote. And then I'm on the board, and now I'm going to repeat it just quoted General Gotovina and said and paraphrased that answer, so let's ask if you're going to invite citizens of Serbian nationality back home, so when he answered, I can't invite them into their house. It's their house. Well, you see, Mr. Buric, these people who are scheduled, so this discrimination, as you say, with positive discrimination in that part if we call it positive, then they can agree they don't have their own house. The time when they will receive their house under the programme will then be equal with all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and then actually get the circumstances that, in all things, they will be equal in the vote and in all other circumstances and they will be citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If they don't want what you're insinuating they're going to go back there and pray, live where it rains differently then they're going to lose their place because they're not going to live in our area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25510	The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25511	Thank you. It's raining everywhere. There's not much. It's just that we don't have the same relationship with all Croatian citizens. And unfortunately, although I have avoided this term of discrimination, I will not avoid it because this really suits you best, so call it positive or negative discrimination. Why is there always a positive discrimination against the harm of Croatian citizens of Croatian nationality? Why? And positive discrimination against the damage of the majority in relation to the minority when it comes to drug users. We talked about it yesterday. So positive discrimination when it comes to homosexualism versus heterosexualism. So don't keep defending something with positive discrimination. When it comes to people, when it comes to Croatian citizens of all nationalities, then all Croatian citizens of all nationalities should be in the same position and in this way are not in the same position. They are not in the same position because one of us sets out one of the rules of the game for the exercise of constitutional law, and the other we determine the other rules of the game. And let's ask a question, and how many Croatian citizens of Croatian nationality have the same unresolved question, and I am about to solve the issue and return and reconstruction of houses and real estate all, for all those who are Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality currently outside of Croatia, I am. But I am also so that at the same time Croatia is very much the Croatian government insists that these same problems are solved for Croatian citizens of Croatian nationality on their properties and in Republika Srpska and Vojvodina still anywhere where they were forced to go by force after centuries of life in these areas. So there's no difference. Same approach to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25512	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25513	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you told your colleague Buric that not all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are equal, that there are equal and less equal and that you thought about those who have a residence registered in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but do not live there. We all advocate the introduction of order, but there is another inequality of Croatian citizens who was introduced somehow between the first and second readings in this law, which is the category of civil servants' persons, and according to Article 3 there are certain obligations regarding the duty of check-out of residence if leaving the Republic of Croatia for more than a year and the reason for leaving the residence is to be reported, etc. There's a deadline in which to do it. If leaving the residence for temporary departure outside the Republic of Croatia takes more than 5 years, then this should be re-registered after every three years. And now says the 7th person referred to in paragraph 5, paragraph 8, says the obligation referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6, so the duty to register and log out does not apply to civil servants who, under official duty on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, refer to work abroad or to members of their families. It's completely illogical for me, and it's incomprehensible for what it's like. I guess all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are equal and equal. If someone goes to work abroad with some company then they have to report it, but the family of a civil servant doesn't have to. And besides, it's illogical because the point of signing up to leave this residence and going to some other address abroad is primarily for the sake of proper records. And why for a civil servant, the court could not determine where it is and is not located in Croatia, and for every other citizen of this country should be established. And one more thing about order and disorder, I say, is that no order will be introduced in view of the transitional and final provisions of this law, which leaves time limits of one year for the delivery of data, whether the persons in the reconstruction and housing programme are the ones that were found at the time of entry into force of the duty. So, for local elections, there won't be any order, it won't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25514	Thank you. Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25515	Thank you. Exactly, colleague Lovrin, there's no logic in not only making, let's even give to civil servants who, on behalf of the ambassadors, I don't know any representatives at consulates. But what do members of their family have to do with it, so they are not civil servants so that they too may be freed from their families. Which one? The ropes of the family, the wider families, the relatives to which knee? That's not accurate at all. I'm the next cousin of the ambassador to the UK and I have no obligation, I think you've seen this illogicality well. And when you say in the end about order and disorder, it is exactly like this law, not that order will not be introduced, but another rule of inequality will be introduced among Croatian citizens and unfortunately according to their nationality. And it's to the detriment of the majority people that I don't think it's recorded, so let's go if nowhere but rarely where in the world. The basic problem of this law is selectivity in order. For one, we introduce order, and for the other, it's worth whatever they want and whatever they want. Now, these are fundamental remarks and, in this sense, the HDSB club cannot have this kind of approach, which is discriminatory for the majority of Croatian people, for the majority of Croatian citizens who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25516	We're continuing to discuss clubs. HSU club and colleague Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25517	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have the final proposal of the House Act. It is good that after the first reading, the legislator accepted a series of suggestions and suggestions that eventually improved this law. The concept of residence is defined as a place where a person has settled permanently in order to exercise his rights and obligations relating to life interests such as family, professional, economic, social, cultural and other interests. It is also defined as a place and address in the Republic of Croatia where the person is temporarily staying outside the place of residence or in the place of residence but at another address. The stay shall be registered to the competent police authority if it takes longer than three months. Since the residence and residence is defined as the place and address, it is prescribed that addresses not registered in the Register of Space Units will not be able to make the application of residence or residence or change of home address. In the final draft of the law, it is further defined when a person is considered to be temporarily staying outside the Republic of Croatia for a period of more than one year for the purpose of education, long-term treatment of non-permanent-sustainable operations. It is a very good provision that, with other persons in various institutions, military, prisons, dormitories, and pensioners or persons located in homes for elderly and powerless persons, so that they can register their residence at the addresses of these institutions. This is a very favourable occasion for them because the majority of pensioners in these institutions have mostly put up polling stations, so these people have no problem leaving and exercising their right to vote. Article 10 solves the possible problem of the person when reporting to the landlord who has to obtain his consent. This protects the right of the landlord and makes it impossible for some third parties to register their residence or residence without the consent of the landlord. Thus, it is not certain that the householder and the really reporting residence or residence will be added to the provision under which the landlord is obliged to submit within 15 days to the Police Administration or the station the information on the person who gave the apartment for use. Article 12 also solves a certain concern about the deletion of the residence application in the data collection on residence and residence. The term delete is replaced by a check-out by an official duty which means when the procedure provides that a person does not live at the address of the registered residence will not be deleted from the database as if they were never recorded in that collection but that person will be recorded on the date on which his or her residence is officially checked out. Therefore, the registered personal data will remain in the collection but from the date of publication, that person will not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia until the day of re-claiming of the residence in the place where it has really settled if it is located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of Article 18 have put an end to the provision of an obligation on citizens who have duly declared their residence and live in that address to re-check their application. These obligations are not exempt from persons who have declared residence before the entry into force of this Act but who do not have a valid identity card. Those persons shall, within one year, re-register their residence to the competent authority. If persons who do not have a valid identity card or have a registered residence at non-existent addresses within one year of entry into force of this Act will re-register their residence. Their residence will be checked out of the residence or residence database. We believe that this residence law will be a good and necessary basis for making a register of voters who would finally become a real indicator of the number of voters and be one of the main elements of the regulation of elections in the Republic of Croatia. The HSU Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25518	We have one replica. Here you go, buddy Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25519	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just in conclusion to this sentence, the closing you said. Your right to support but the reason for your support is your belief that this law will contribute to the regularity of future elections. On the contrary, we believe that such a legal solution will question the regularity of all future elections if such legal provisions remain in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25520	The SDSS Club will be addressed by a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25521	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In our first reading, we had a heated debate about this law, but not a burning argument, but a violent prejudice. And as far as I've been able to hear this debate continues today. So no arguments based on prejudice, which I think gives me the right to say. First, when it comes to the so-called. The famous buses. Okay, I can understand that there are people who don't mind those who don't mind the fact that over 200,000 people went on tractors without being able to get on a bus and nobody asking what happened to all these people, and that it bothers them when several buses appear with a thousand and a half possible voters in local elections because local voting rights can't be achieved in a country where they are as refugees, either in some other way. Therefore, the voting law as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia is defined and provided for in consular representations and is established for consular representations for election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, possibly for representatives in the EU Parliament and for the President of the Republic. When it comes to elections for local units, regional self-government is only possible to do so in the place of residence, not in diplomatic and consular representations. And if someone wants to do it, then first of all, it can happen here in its place of residence. Otherwise, any other procedure is much more complicated and much more complex. Secondly, as far as the question is concerned, are some equal and others more equal, and I will gladly give the excess of equality that Serbs in Croatia have to give to each and every one of you who wants to take it especially to those who refer to this surplus, so let them live with it, very gladly. Both in terms of living conditions and in terms of conditions of employment and in relation to such discussions, which are held every few times in the Assembly and which are prescribed the status of particularly privileged people in this country. And then you can enjoy the privilege of enjoying yourself that bothers you. And if you don't know what it's about I'm willing to give you in some unrelated conversation not from this pay phone show what it's all about if you miss it. There is one difference between Croatian citizens living in BiH who were citizens of BiH to independence both the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of BiH are there. They did not get there as refugees, eventually arrived as refugees in the Republic of Croatia and received Croatian citizenship. They were taken care of by the Republic of Croatia. And those who stayed in the Republic of Croatia have the status of a constituent people in BiH. We, too, who run Croatian politics, are struggling to strengthen their status in BiH. Will we strengthen it by continuing the model that was established during the 1990s, which is that by dividing citizenship, by dividing political and electoral rights and by confrontation with the rest of the BiH state with the other three peoples. Do we really think that this is the only way we can protect the Croats in BiH or there are other ways, which is to increase their political power in deciding in BiH, to increase their status in the circumstances in which we should or will stick to the old ways we had? It's not my place to say it right. I can participate, I'll be happy to participate in this debate, but it was a relic of an earlier age. But these are not people in a refugee country whose status regarding citizenship in the recipient state is unclear and undefined whether it is BiH or Serbia. According to this, about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are refugees and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have the status of a constituent nation in another country, shall we talk about this? Are we talking about being refugees in a foreign country and being a constituent nation in our own country and having a home country that you will support in this matter, are we talking about equality or excess equality for some? You know, some of them couldn't choose whether to stay in the country but had to go to refugee school, and some when they were supposed to go to jail, they could choose whether to be here or go to BiH. That's only when we talk about equality. And perhaps within a few days, data on the census may finally be published, so that all those who care so much about the excessive rights of Serbs in Croatia have the heart in place unless the number is as many as it was 12 years ago. But I'd just like to ask you to leave this excessive concern about the rights of the Serbs for someone else. With that concern, the excessive number of Serbs in the Republic of Croatia can hardly only grow. Now allow me two words about this law. Mr. Minister, this law is being prepared for the third term if not the fourth term of office of the Parliament and the Government. And there have been a number of obstacles about it and insufficient willingness to agree on what needs to be brought into line, which is that more than 400 thousand voters in relation to the number of inhabitants need to be taken care of. And the SDSS club supported that job and the former government and provided support to you. What we think should be avoided is that people who are not guilty by their will are in exile, who have not done so by their own free will because they are waiting for their houses to be restored and that they can be returned for 15 or 20 years or to be dealt with by housing problems in general, that these people are excluded from the procedure of administrative eradication or eradication by official duty. Those who have sold their property, those who have moved from the Republic of Croatia, those who do not want to return after offering them the deadline offered by this law, after so many years we will say that is their will. But do not create an assumption that those who wish to return, which are covered by the programme of return, the programme of reconstruction and the programme of housing, would be contrary to their right, contrary to our regulations and against international obligations. And for this reason, Mr. Minister, we believe that Article 12 of this Act, paragraph 5 of indent 2, should be complemented that, in addition to renovation and housing, a return programme should be added. Unfortunately, as someone here said, the number of those who could still use it is small. For so many years they have made their own, so many resistances they have made their return, but our moral obligation is to leave them a chance if they want to return. And taking away their right of residence as a presumption of return, as a assumption of the realisation of the right to reconstruction and the right to housing would be contrary to international obligations, would be contrary to return policy. And for this reason, we will submit an amendment to this article, as will be the amendment to Article 10(5), in which cases, when it is suspected that a statement of residence is credible, that a competent civil servant in this case, an official of the Ministry of the Interior, may carry out a field check, and that this verification is carried out within 15 days in order to obtain a more objective and complete picture of who actually resides and who does not really reside in the address he has reported. Now allow me a word or two about these attitudes that could have been heard in previous discussions. In the '93 period. So by 2007, I'm talking about the data that we collected at the club for the purpose of commenting on the charge of the SDSS blocking the adoption of this law in 2009. In the period from '93-2007. About half a million people have moved to Croatia, mostly from BiH. During the period 2002-2007, colleagues and colleagues in HDZ who were politically active at the time know very well what the period was and know very well what it meant for the election results, in the 2003 election cycle and the 2007 election cycle, 100 000 people moved in and we know which areas and we know in what kind of campaign. So when it comes to buses, don't forget that these people didn't come by buses, these people came by administrative measure. You think you should look that way? Well, if that's what you think I can look at worse, but I hope my communication with this hall doesn't have any limits. So during that period it moved in, i.e. settled administratively or really from 2002 to 2007. 100,000 people mostly from BiH. Only so that those who care about the equality of Croats in BiH know that the state took care of them, by moving them to Croatia. She moved them to places where Serbs were supposed to return. There was no war in BiH or Serbia or Kosovo in 2002-2007, and thank God neither in Croatia. In the same period, 50,000 of its citizens moved from the Republic of Croatia, which administratively did indeed. And when we analyze the counties where we see this happening, it seemed to be a rare administrative process, the orders of police officers, and it seemed rare for the decisions of the people themselves, given the circumstances in which they lived. My colleagues and colleagues, there are things that make sense to discuss, and there are things that when we discuss, we just compromise further. This is one of those things. We don't need this because trouble is much bigger than our contribution to it. This law is good, if a little bit is fixed, we'll solve something that we haven't been ready to solve in a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25522	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas. The first replica, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25523	... among other things, I think a statement bordering on some other things that are not related to a pro-European-oriented politician as he presents himself. [[Specially enabled.]] He said, among other things, that we should leave excessive care for the citizens of Serbian nationality to another. And I argue that you were not at all concerned about the citizens of Serbian nationality when, in the past term, you practically cemented your position and position as your own party and when, among other things, through that Constitutional Law on National Minorities, which was supposed to be a prerequisite for the vote of the budget, you wanted to legalize something called another state in the Republic of Croatia, because you asked for a Serbian council of municipalities special territorial integrity, legal personality and a special way of financing right through the Constitutional Law. That's when I called it before the Parliament in that last term that we were practically '91. and those war years called at least us Croats, as well as those who rebelled against the Republic of Croatia called the constitutional and legal order the SAO landscape. Otherwise, for your information at this time about the people we are talking about in this part of the law and who are in status where they have not been solved the practical residence in the restoration is only 10600 citizens who come by bus exclusively to the elections, and Croatia has long forgotten where it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25524	The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25525	Well, the replica is that it should have a man answering more things, and I'm going to answer in one way that the replica can, and that's that I'm going to shut up all these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25526	The next replica is Honorable representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25527	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Pupovac, you've come up in your speech to argue here if I've heard correctly, because it's a bit weak, based on prejudice and without arguments. Here's what I refuse. So, I am here discussing this law, not discussing Serbs, not Croats, not Eskimos. I am discussing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. With this law, we wanted to arrange that the registered residence corresponds to the real state of residence and applies to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We therefore arrange that there is a right for a person who has a registered residence and is indeed resident in it. It's true. You said it refers to the right as far as electoral legislation is concerned in the local elections. And the fact is, we won't engage because it's not the subject of this law who left Croatia. Once upon a time, people in that diaspora, remember when they were leaving, forced by whatever reasons political, economical, and they are also very attached to their grandfathers somewhere in the Dalmatian Zagora. And they might be happy to come by plane and vote in local elections, I don't know in Sinj. But they can't do it because they have another right. As citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they have the right to vote outside the Republic of Croatia in the consular representation of the so-called so-called so-called so-called Republic of Croatia. State elections, but they don't have locals. And it is arranged now and not only for those who are in the return programme, but also for those who have left Croatia that you are talking about, but for all persons who have been outside the Republic for more than a year and who do not have a residence here. I was saying that unfortunately, the order we wanted to introduce will not be introduced for local elections for the reason that a one-year deadline has been left for those who are in the renewal programme to inform the competent office within a year but also for those other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been left outside the Republic of Croatia for another year to inform them of the reasons for the outbreak of the competent authority. What does that mean? [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]] This means that all those who have voted so far and those you say somewhere in Herzegovina and those in the Zadar hinterland will vote in local elections this year, even if by law they should not have the right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25528	My colleague Lovrin, does anything mean anything to you that time is up? Or is that a warning and a rulebook, the Rules of Procedure don't apply to you? That I may know how to act in the future, for I will not warn you unless you listen. The answer to the line, dear fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25529	Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Lovrin's colleague can and has the right to reason with the civil equality story. But I'll do it one more time. Civil equality or equalisation of citizens of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the equalisation of Croatian citizens who have had to go into war circumstances and are in refugee is only an indication that some people in the Republic of Croatia have not yet completed this policy and that it is still here in various arguments practiced in the Croatian Parliament. It is about Croatian citizens, but it is not about the same Croatian citizens. Citizens of Croatia, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are primarily citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Serbian refugees in Serbia or Bosnia and Herzegovina are rarely people without anyone's citizenship except Croatia. If that's how you look at things and even people, then of course you speak on the basis of prejudice and not only prejudice but hypocrisy. And not only hypocrites but also based on a policy that man cannot characterize but rather on the retention of the policy of ethnic cleansing that you would like to exist in this law and that this law is an additional means of cementing ethnic cleansing policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25530	Next replica, respected representative Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Pupovac, you're acting more by your statements as you give to foreign media and you act more like you're a representative of the Serbian Parliament visiting the Croatian Parliament. I can remind you that you have sworn in the Croatian Assembly here to protect the interests of all, all, I repeat all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You're actually raising impatience because all the time you're talking some Serbs have been expelled, but you're not talking about exiled Croats, you're not talking about who started it, you're not talking about how it ended. Even mentioning the Croats from BiH, why not mention that Croats cannot return to BiH? Maybe you can help, work on making the Croats who were expelled from the so-called Republika Srpska's return to Republika Srpska may be a place for Serbs. So all citizens of the Republic of Croatia must have the same rights. But Mr. Pupović, if I stand for such rights, you must, too, because we have sworn the same oath in this House. We can't pretend that the war wasn't, we can't pretend that Serbs weren't aggressors and we can't pretend that they're not responsible for it. We can't be now, now we'll be the same, from now on we won't fight each other again, let's forget what happened. You can't do that. I also advocate that we all be equal, but I also advocate that everyone must pay for their sins. But every one of them. And then we'll be even. But it can't, I've never heard you defend the Croats. I've never heard of you! It says it's hard to live where Serbs live. It's hard to live on islands. The lady asked me to buy her half a kilo of meat two weeks ago because she didn't eat it for two weeks. It's hard everywhere. We can't just say it's hard for Serbs, it's hard for all of us. But we can't say again that it's just one people that's guilty, it looks like it's all our fault here, and we cooked it all up, all the Croats cooked it up. We know how cooked it is, we know who has to answer, let's clean it up in order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25532	Next replica, honourable representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25533	Okay, thanks. Dear fellow Pupovac, it's a good thing you went with the exact numbers, that's fine because you've reminded me of one fact now. The numbers need to go with the strength of the argument. Don't forget, you're talking about 200 thousand refugees on tractors leaving, so you said in 1995. And I will remind you of the fact that in December 1991 in Croatia there were 550,000 exiles and refugees and another 150 thousand exiles and refugees outside the Republic of Croatia and none of them or on the fingers of one hand you can list were members of Serbian nationality. It was about exiled and refugee Croats who didn't reach their tractors, but before tanks, hoods and grenades, those who managed to get their lives out of their centuries-old homes. When you said about the mass return of Croats in 1995, there was a mass return of Croatian refugees and Croatian exiles from these 700 thousand I said at the end of '95. The years were exactly 386 thousand 264 according to valid data plus 57 thousand outside, another 440 thousand. So when we talk about numbers, then I'd just like to tell you the 500 thousand people you say moved to Croatia. They did not emigrate with an administrative measure, Mr. Pupovac, but using force and aggression by large-scale Serbian aggression in both Croatia and BiH that forced them to do so. And you know if they weren't pulling a cat by the tail, they wouldn't be refugees today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25534	Next replica, respected representative Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't know there were so many reps before me, but maybe I'll do some things again. What I heard from Mr. Pupovac, he asked me to say, I didn't mean to speak at all because in my first reading, I told my court about this law. I said he was extremely harmful to the Croats mainly Croatian diaspora, I don't mean the Croats from BiH because well said fellow Pupovac BiH Croats are a constitutive nation of the state as well as Serbs and as Bosniaks. But this same Croatian people, therefore the fundamental people, the forming people during the war, experienced an exodus, and together with Bosniaks, millions of people came through Croatia, Croatia followed, fed, fed, dressed, stopped, those who wanted to move on. So it's something that's true and we can't get away from it. And we can never shut that up. That's true. Dayton BiH, Mr. Pupovac does not know BiH as the Republic, simply the BiH state is the name for BiH. It's two entities, and it's a BiH state. It has a completely different shape, a different structure, etc. And don't, like some people do, say it's the Republic. It has no prefix of the republic, the Republika Srpska must know that and we have on the other hand a slightly larger entity of the Federation of BiH. Now the Brcko District, etc. When you said the division of citizenship, citizenship was shared and shared both with hand and hat in Serbia with Serbian citizens. As far as Croats are concerned, they have become Croatian citizens through procedures, and there has been no obstacle if there is a constitutive people in the neighbouring country to receive and receive Croatian citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25536	Thank you very much. He's responding to the replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25537	I didn't want to take too much time in this respected House of Representatives, so I would report to all the replicas, but I would just like to say to those who question my belonging to this House that I did not swear to the Constitution because of those who question my representative mandate and my respect for the Croatian Constitution, and I did not swear because I was elected in these elections, but because I believe in what I do. I believe in a country whose parliament I am in, and I don't need to be taught by anyone. And I also don't expect anyone to restrict my mandate. That's special. If someone limits my parliamentary mandate or when it expands and sends me to deal with the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a assumption that I can speak in the Croatian Parliament then keep in mind that you are doing things that are contrary to the elemental constitutional values on which we are working here. What about refugees? Don't put anything on my heart that stands on my heart anyway, and these are all refugees in Croatia from the '90s on this one. And I won't remind you whether you take care of everyone and I don't expect you to do it. You take care of the one who's been taken care of in Mostar, as far as I'm concerned, that's your right, and I won't ask you for more than that. But leave me the right to do what I'm convinced and what I think is my duty to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25538	The next replica, the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25539	Oh, thank you. So here you are, Mr. Pupovac, saying if I were to quote correctly that since 93-2007, about 500 thousand people have moved to the Republic of Croatia, mostly from the BiH, that the state has moved them mainly to areas where they were supposed to return to Serbia. This gentleman, who has just left the Assembly, has in fact implicitly accused the Republic of Croatia of conducting an ethical cleansing in the replica later and has explicitly accused the Republic of Croatia and politics, the rule of the Republic of Croatia of conduct of ethical cleansing. I mean, of course everyone has the right to freedom of speech and it's his right to say it, but I think it's a historical lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25540	A colleague Đurović, like this, must stick to the rules, you can replicate on basic exposure and not on what is said in reply to the replica. And what you're saying isn't said in basic exposure. We have a Rules of Procedure. Please, colleague Vinkovic, don't throw it away and don't... I listened carefully. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you can replicate it on basic exposure. Be so kind. It'll be easier for everyone if we stick to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25541	From 1993 to 2007 moved to the Republic of Croatia mainly from the Czech Republic. The state moved them mainly to an area where Serbs were due to return. So it's a quote from basic exposure and Mr. Vice President, you're now really misreading it in the wrong way and incorrectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25542	No, I don't. You spoke in ethical cleansing. Well, I listen to you as carefully as I listen to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25543	No, you didn't listen very carefully. I said that in the replica then, explicitly or explicitly repeat that it was genocide, and it's explicitly this quote that accuses the Republic of the Genocidal Policy. Don't be mad. And so I wanted to say, since the man is gone, of course everyone has the right to freedom of speech. However, these issues are really rejected by the Hague Court in the end if you want through the ruling on Markac and Gotovina and no international body or outside the Republic of Croatia has put such a thesis on them, so it is really strange that we are experiencing them from the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and it might be more appropriate to recognise such an accusation of our own country as the chairman as something that is not appropriate to discuss in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25544	Next replica, Honorable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's Mr. Pupovac gone so I don't know if it makes sense to ask him general questions or replicate, but here's why the public can only say, he said, among other things, whether giving citizenship to Croats from the BIH is a way to help these people. More ways to help and one of these is to give citizenship not only to Croats in BIH but also to all Croats around the world. And it is free as the Republic of Serbia does, as its consular representatives in the Republic of Serbia do. All I know this summer is that they shared free Serbian citizenship. I don't think it was much of a response, but it doesn't matter. Croats living in Serbia with their modest incomes by strict criteria must pay up to 170 Euros to obtain or extend the Croatian passport. I don't think that's right, and that should be fixed in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25546	And the last replica. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25547	Dear Mr. Pupovci, even though he's not here, I'm talking to him. Some could indeed choose whether to stay in Croatia or not. Some people could choose whether to stay in the BiH or not. That's right. But many had no choice but to stay or leave. Both sit down and on the other hand they had to leave, many truths can choose to come back or stay, but they don't want to come back, they want to stay. Some do not want to return to Croatia and some do not want to return to BiH. It wasn't just politics that determined the terms of return or remainder. Politics especially on the other hand made sure that any return or stay seemed politically motivated. These last discussions talk about divisions, about the gap, and when it's potential in the Parliament on the ground, it takes serious forms.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25548	Now we're going to continue the club debate. In the name of the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Ante Babic will speak. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25549	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The older Yugoslav law of '65. and Republic of Croatia's '74 Socialist Republic Law had the same definitions of residence and residence of citizens. Anyone could have a place of residence and a place of residence at the same time. In the new political and economic system of the Republic of Croatia and the old provisions of the Law on residence and residence of citizens, a large number of inhabitants were not understood. Even today, many people do not know the difference between residence and residence. Just because there is no visible difference between residence and residence, some have reported a permanent residence as a residence and a temporary residence as a residence. Others have done so from other interests such as travel costs and cheaper boating tickets, smaller taxes, a parking space closer to the city center and the like. It is not clear why the legislator gave up the clear concepts that were in the proposal of the Law on residence, permanent residence and temporary residence. Why return to residence and residence in the final bill? Why the final draft of the law did not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which in Article 32 clearly states "Anyone who is legally located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has the right to move freely and to choose a residence. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to leave the territory of the country at any time and settle permanently or temporarily abroad and at any time return to the country. The right to move on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the right to enter it, exiting it can be extremely limited by law if it is necessary to protect the legal order or the health of the rights and freedoms of others." Not only is returning to the old concepts a place of residence from the old laws but more provisions of the final proposal of the Law on residence show provisions which are derived from the former political and economic system. It is the impression that the legislator of this law wants to know at all times where they are located, where they are going, what their reasons are for movement and even how many apartments they live in. So, for example, Article 9 states, "The application and check-in of residences and residences of persons shall form the form set out in Article 8. This law follows the following data, OIB, name and last name, last name, parent name, date and place of birth of nationality, nationality, occupation, school training, place and address where the person comes from, and for the person coming from outside the Republic of Croatia and the country from which he is registered, the number of members of the household to whom the person is registered, and the floor, the area and number of the apartment to which he is registered, the name and name of the landlord’s seat, and the OIB, the date of application, the signature of the applicant’s application, etc., etc. In this regard, I would like to force citizens to take over the role of the abolished financial police, which the SDP has done every time it came to power in January 2001 and January 2010. This Regulation shall enter "The data collection on residence and residence is run by the ministry responsible for internal affairs." The database of residence and residence data also contains a series of data that I do not want to read here except for the information provided by the persons who gave the apartment to other persons for a period of more than three months. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The fine of 500 to 5000 thousand kuna will be fined for the violation of a natural person who gives an apartment to another person for a period of more than three months and does not deliver to the competent body within 15 days of the day when the apartment has given use of the data on the person who gave the apartment for use and the address where the apartment is located." This is Article 10(4). Due to severe opposition from the public, a significant number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament had not been famous in 2010 but in the 2nd month, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens failed because some of the MPs from different parties were able to read the bill at the time and found that the law was unsettled, unbreakable and would not solve the old injustices but would, on the contrary, result in new major injustices and confusion and the establishment of a police state. The legislator loads on the back of the MUP and police burdens that he cannot bear and assumes on himself jobs that other ministries should do, for example. The Ministry of Finance, its Tax or Customs Administration, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which should be active towards emigrants and other citizens who for various reasons are located in the territory covered by the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia. The final draft of the residence law does not take specific circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia and parts of the Croatian people are located in BiH, the Croatian minority and Croatian emigrants. The Law on the ID card should be amended accordingly and it should enable all Croatian citizens to receive their ID card, and should be determined in this law that the identity card is not a document that would be sufficient to participate in local elections. In discussions on this law, his effects on the elections were too much to be discussed, so the essence of the Law on residence and the Law on the ID card was lost. They are lost from the category of citizens who will be greatly affected by the provisions of this law, which are exiles, refugees, settlers, displaced, displaced and citizens on temporary work abroad. Is the promoter aware of how many exiled, populated in areas of special state care live in homes that are not in land books, and many of them were forced to move from two, three, and more times from one state house to another? Is the promoter known to, for example? A Croatian citizen who has been exiled from BiH and works in Germany and who has a house at Koprivnica MUP makes it impossible to register his residence at the address and his house. Next, he can't get an I.D., and without it, he can't even open a current account. The MUP said it will be able to do so when she retires and returns permanently to Croatia. It is certainly necessary to introduce more order, but it should be borne in mind that these people are victims of adverse circumstances that forced them to change places of residence and work and that many of them cannot and must not write all that is required of them in Article 9 and some of the other articles of the proposed law. In practice, a fictitious, permanent or temporary residence occurred. Temporary workers and their families in most cases have the only permanent domicile address in Croatia where they go temporarily or occasionally, but according to opportunities. Could they be expected to count days and months and leave work to report to the consulate of the Republic of Croatia, which the Ministry of Interior will determine once it has deleted. There are a number of obstacles that make it impossible for a person to stay permanently at the address he reported as a permanent residence or residence. These obstacles are real and cannot be realistically expected to be taken into account by bureaucrats. Police officers do not have enough will, and even less time to knock from house to house and take care of circumstances, which is why someone is not at the address he reported as a residence address. I think it's too much of a burden for the police. Even the administration of far more orderly countries and far away... the police fail to introduce a full order showing the fact of a large number of people living if you want to and work "on black" in Germany, Austria, France, Italy. Instead of questioning people as if they were all very likely criminals, it is necessary to facilitate people getting the necessary documents within the legal time limit. Members of the Croatian people in neighbouring countries and emigrants should certainly be facilitated by moving, staying and looking for work. It should not be forgotten that those in Croatia's GDP are participating with 3.7%. Finally, the question is whether it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to have as few voters as possible who will elect representatives in the European Parliament from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25550	We'll hear two replicas now. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25551	Dear colleague, there somewhere in 2007 during that pre-election campaign, one of the main topics was just the voices of diaspora and religious science in schools, and that's why someone lost the election. The law now virtually legalizes the 2007 desire from the pre-election campaign, and the fact is that this law is discriminatory, especially for the citizens of Croatia who have even the Croatian identity card, have the JMBG, have the OIB, unlike, I have asked for the board above all a number, which is the number of citizens. It is about 10600 citizens who I would have said maybe willingly, and I would even be sure to leave the Republic of Croatia voluntarily, many at this moment are restored houses where no one lives and let's be open here. Many of these houses have also been sold because no one wanted to return to the Republic of Croatia, despite the fact that most of these citizens were not the result and what Pupovac said, and he said one very dangerous thing, that Croatia was conducting ethnic cleansing. I don't know if the chairman understood it but it is one statement that deserves first of all a conviction because Croatia was not the one that did ethnic cleansing, on the contrary. Over the population of Croatia, the Serb army and the large Serbian idea made ethnic cleansing. And counterpart Buric said how many Croatian refugees and Croatian exiles were in total.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25552	Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues to Vinkovic, HDZ is still for the introduction of religious sciences into school, not a problem. What you said about BiH voters, in fact, as far as I saw in this explanation of this final law, the promoter said that a negative perception was created, that it was related to local elections, especially those of the voters coming from BiH. And these elections, I am convinced and you will be convinced, will show that citizens or Croats living in the BiH area will have no impact on the local elections in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25554	And another replica, the esteemed representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. You opened my eyes with your debate. Now I'm just getting to the bottom of what we discussed yesterday about that legalization... laws on drug use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The explanation yesterday was that we should relieve our officers not to catch up with and not to burden themselves with those kids who, for personal purposes, take a little drugs. But I couldn't figure out what the cops were going to do. They said they'd be chasing dealers. They won't be chasing dealers. It won't be one task. You're actually to me right now, I didn't even notice it right now, it says here in Article 12 that now those cops who are going to leave our kids on legal drugs are going to go out and field check whether someone lives at some address or doesn't live. Is that in Article 12, paragraph 1 and paragraph 3? Well, it's a good thing we're having such discussions, because there's a time when a man's memory comes to some knowledge. I am convinced that Mr. Minister does not share this opinion, and I even believe that this bill is not ultimately exactly what his will is, but the will of the ruling majority that may have changed his proposal as has been amended and the proposal for a law on medically assisted insemination which, by the time he arrived from the Ministry of Health to the Central Committee, had drastic changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25556	I'm sorry, but you have to pick up while the speaker has his word while he's talking. We'll hear another debate, but before that, just one brief explanation. My friend Buric, there's no law on drug use. Such a law simply does not exist. ... Okay, so you can interpret it, but it just doesn't exist. [[I can't hear you.]] Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am sorry that this law, which should have a very broad debate because it solves some inherited issues and problems, and then many colleagues who talk about it, do not welcome the end of the debate, and then it is difficult to polarize with them. However, since I was speaking generally on behalf of the club I would say in this individual debate a few more words that seem to matter to me and are different from what some colleagues who defend this law have spoken. This law needs to solve one problem that I think the problem has arisen in the 1960s. And probably the Honorable Mr. Minister knows that such a law, or some of the solutions and obligations of the citizens, was then in force with a similar expression, but unfortunately, I'm afraid nothing has ever happened. What am I saying? The obligation to report a change of residence exists in our legislation for at least 60 years. And perhaps in light of the need to pass this law, you should see that the Ministry of the Interior tells us how many cases have been punished by those who have not reported a change in their residence within 8 days. I believe that these penalties were mostly not pronounced, and so the problem was multipled or accumulated, and over the years it became bigger and bigger. And now we want to re-introduce that same obligation, the re-entitlement of citizens to report their residence, we will prevent some of the violations from being punished. But I'm afraid there's some kind of discipline only by criminal penalties we won't get to. However, what is new and what is most important in this law, and I see that it has mostly motivated and most of the debates is the fact that now, according to official duty, people can be deleted from the residence, from the records if the field check finds that they do not reside there. I'm afraid this is a very palitative solution to this problem. What does field check mean? Will the police administration once a year, once in 10 years. Every month, we have heard about the burden of police officers that often and with what level of security it can be determined that a person resides or does not reside at a specific address. And I would look even wider at the application of this law, not just talking about local or parliamentary elections. That's what I said in the introduction to the club. What about all those citizens who have reported their residence in other units of local self-government or regional administrations just to avoid paying, say, certain cuts that do not exist in some units or are significantly smaller than in some others. Whether this field check will go so far that we will also check these addresses and determine who lives in which address, which is de facto avoiding paying tax obligations or imposing that we will probably all, increasingly motivate us in view of the government's policy of introducing new taxes. I won't talk about the ones they've given up on, enough is the burden and the ones that exist. However, what I wanted to talk about in this individual debate is the fact that a colleague of Pupovac also spoke about but then left the assembly, which is the fact that we are hearing again about the application of the law exclusively from the position of a minority, that is, in this particular case of the position of Serbs in Croatia, and we are thinking about applying the law to them all the time. So this law is not prepared, but it has some exclusive rights for members of the Serb community because they are not subject to the law if they are in any way covered by measures to return to housing or something else. And now there's just a question why there has to be only one category to which this law won't apply? We have heard stories about the need for housing, of return programmes that of course take place, or of not having any time to which these obligations have to be made to these people or to what term, to which time limits they can even apply to apply certain special rights. However, I believe that given the constitutional provisions of the Republic of Croatia, one special category of inhabitants cannot be completely isolated from others, they will not be subject to the provisions of this law and to all others they will. And now that you add a new methodology to this, and here we are waiting for the results of the census, so a whole series of people who list this new one according to a new methodology that may be mature for EU member states, but for Croatia that does not have that possibility of labour mobility has other effects, we will get information that a whole series of people will not be included in the census, we will have the fact that you have persons who have Croatian citizenship and residence in the Republic of Croatia and at the same time have dual citizenship because many countries allow it and there also have a registered residence. Since they are subject to the law of a country whose nationals are on its territory, you cannot delete such people from your residence just because you did not determine by field check that they were or were not at a specific address they reported. That's why I think this law has weaknesses, which is why I don't think these measures can be implemented at all in order to get the results we want. And in the end, you left the inability for those people you're going to field check to stand up to you in an administrative procedure against a solution that the Ministry of the Interior will bring. You've left them all to trial before the Administrative Court to wait three years for a possible or five solution to their particular case. Administrative courts that are now receiving extended jurisdiction and due to some other matters will still get jurisdiction to solve the lawsuits for those people you will delete from the residence records because you have established on the ground, and perhaps entirely wrong that those persons no longer reside there. In order for this law to be a correct instrument in achieving the objective that we have set, and in fact to be the basis for then changing the register of voters, there must also be precise standards on which to act. In this way, as provided for by this law, it may happen that you delete 20 thousand or 50,000 people and get 50,000 administrative disputes because they will stand up with a lawsuit against your solutions because you do not leave them with another option. You do not leave at all the possibility that you have made a mistake in the process and that within 15 days someone can appeal against your solution and that the second-degree body solves the case without burying administrative courts with additional processes. Therefore, I do not think that this law can be seen as a relaw relating to a national minority but rather as a law affecting the personal rights of all citizens. And given that it is affecting the personal rights of all citizens, I believe that according to the Constitution, they should all be treated the same, and not that we listen passively from day to day to day, I would say the lectures of individual colleagues who put all of this into some international context and always with some idea that there is a hidden intention to please someone by this law or this law damaged. This law must be equal for all and therefore we believe that this Article 12 in your conduct should be amended in a way that this law and its provisions apply to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25558	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25559	Thank you. Right fellow, the Emperor's goal is all there is now clear what's behind this, and the solution is simple, Article 12(5), subparagraph 2. There's no equal of equal. And I'm not going to pollemize now, it's not right when there's no one who can answer that. But I will remind you of the fact that here in Croatia many times, I am sorry for all those who have experienced the tragedy in any way and endured the burdens of war, but we have more equal and when we have the Law on Abolination and even when we bring state budgets, then we take down the defenders, and we increase national minorities' associations. They should be given, I'm not saying, but when the crisis is, we all have to save equally, and this is another example of being more equal than equal. It was true and wanted to admit it or not, this law was made in order to distinguish between the possibility of achieving the constitutional rights of Croatian citizens and unfortunately Croatian citizens of Croatian nationality, to harm them against Croatian citizens in this case of Serbian nationality. Delete as Proposers only subparagraph 2 of Article 12.I problem solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25560	Second replica, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25561	It states in the Constitution that the Constitution, which was adopted not only by consensus but by one general political unity, states that these general provisions states that all citizens are equal before the law, regardless of sex, age, religion, skin color, nationality, etc., etc. It is the basic departure of the Croatian Constitution. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether it is a consolidated text or an uncleaned text, it is the Constitution which approves and requires the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, but according to the Constitution and in the spirit of the Constitution, all laws should be written. This law is not written in the spirit of this Constitution and the equality of all before the law. On the contrary, there is an exception here, an exception that applies, and neither does the interior minister know how much at the moment these citizens are put into law by this exception because there is no M.P.P.D. The data may have the Ministry of Reconstruction then, and that number is somewhere around 10600 whether the citizens of Croatia, who voluntarily left Croatia, had to leave and there were a number of other issues being raised. On the other hand, we restrict the right to vote on the place of residence for Croatian citizens who own, have even the housewife and Croatian citizenship and Croatian documents from the ID card, JMBG, the OIB and will likely participate in today's adoption of that unique tax-fulfilment form.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25562	Thank you very much. We will now hear the closing word of Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. On several occasions, in this House for years we have actually tried to pass this law, we have been on occasion here and today we have heard criticism of the solutions that have been implemented precisely in the legal solutions that we have read at the time and mandate of the HDZ but I think it is less important for me because this time it has shown how important it is that the arguments no matter on which side come that there is the willingness of the proposing to install them. That's what you said yourself. And I think that the debate in both the first and second readings has shown that in such important things we should really weigh every single thing and every criticism that has been given we have tried to implement in the proposal. There's no ideal law that's a fact, but I'm going to try to explain a few things that were related to the law itself. First of all, the amendment given by law and which does not need to be specifically explained has been accepted. Indeed, it is true that it is true that it is right and that an attempt to through the name of the law is somehow better understood. We have opted for a solution proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club as well as a conversation with constitutional and legal experts that it will not change the scale of the things proposed before you. As regards the statement of appeal, I have already announced that I will ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to agree to the adoption of amendments made by the committees regarding their precise writing, which is that there is no possibility of an appeal and that an administrative procedure is opened. Of course, this is not about your remark, which in some ways would be that there is another solution, which is to make a certain appeal procedure in the second degree first. In the last reading, it means in the bill of law we had, we had a commission but it simply couldn't survive because it doesn't have the authority to make such decisions. I believe the administrative procedure will be quick enough to handle this. This does not necessarily mean that it should take three years, but I will get to the point that most of course everything bothers and that is the chapter 3 of this law and articles that talk about how to delete from the record. I must, of course, mention that it is temporary or that it may be temporary. Someone may later prove their right to their place of residence but it is not such a simple thing, nor can a decision simply be made to delete or exploit someone. A very precise procedure has been written as to what the field check means, how it is conducted, and how it is very specific that it must act and make a solution after the unequivocally established fact that someone does not live in that address. And that's not such a simple thing. And it is precisely in these administrative procedures that will show whether these field checks had all their justifications or not, or whether the conduct of that competent authority was, and that was, in particular, the MUP. I must say about discrimination that the figures we have heard and that Mr. Vinkovic mentioned will not enter them at all because it is not important to eat that 10600 or more people. It is that our Constitution speaks very much of all being equal before the law but it has a provision if the law is not different. Well, that's exactly what it says here, so it means that it's necessary by law to determine that there are certain groups of people and they're very limited. It is correctly written on whom these provisions apply and within what time limit they have to do so. After a year, unless it is done in the same status as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So in advance, I say that as regards the amendments that have been requested and the definition that this is a much longer period, that it refers to a complete return programme, and that would mean not only an apartment but also when conditions are created for normal life under these conditions. Yet, we could not accept this because we consider the residence primarily to be related to the place where man settled. The aim of the law is primarily to introduce order into the issue of residence, residence, and not voting. I would ask you not to impose this law only on the reasons why the problems arise and in the list of voters which is true, but also on the issue of public documents with incorrect data, the inability to find people who are located in certain addresses and so that this record does not only serve to edit voters' lists which I consider to be extremely important, but our insistence that this law is that what is possible is more real for the citizens in a particular place really harmonizes, i.e. that the records correspond to the real state as much as possible. Also, no one with this law intended to deny anyone something he had because no one had the right to be registered in a place where he didn't live, or if you want to, then I can say that it is true that it is necessary to deny whoever doesn't live, who doesn't have a place to live, who doesn't live, who doesn't live there needs to deny him the opportunity to draw the rights that come out of it. Secondly, no one intended to do any damage to the citizens, especially by singleing out or discriminating any Croatian citizen in such a way that they are now citizens of Croatian nationality absolutely not. And I think it is important to highlight the same position for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in all parts of this world. I'd have to say things aren't that simple. And I might have a wish to vote in another city because I like it or that I love that city but it's not possible because my place in this town is. So that the issue of our citizens living in Canada, investing here, have houses, of course, that no one deprives them of their right to vote as Croatian citizens for the Croatian Parliament but they have no residence, so unlike Mrs. Tomasic, who decided to do a different thing, she has her own place today, votes locally here, not in Canada. And those who stayed in Canada will, of course, vote for their mayor where they are, and no one I repeat has denied them the right to vote for parliamentary elections in the Republic of Croatia, of course for the diaspora list. As far as civil servants and their families are concerned, I must add that sentence I see that you do not notice, by official duty, that goes to work abroad. Therefore, for reasons and for this reason, we have accepted the remarks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with what is otherwise defined by us who makes the family, so that Mr. Buric, despite being a relative or nephew ambassador, you do not have the possibility that you do not have to report a residence because we define what the family is and this group is really privileged but not without reason. They are on the record of all of our civil servants who go on diplomatic missions, or work that usually takes more than a year. As for the ID cards and everything else that should be shared to everyone, I must say that the finals of these messages that I have said here, I think they aim to continue to bring the state of the records as close as possible, in the registers, and what happens in the real state on the ground that field checks must be seriously carried out in order for someone to be checked out, that the procedure before the Croatian court can return, of course, back to such records if it is determined that the data is not correctly established. And I would really stick to the fact that such a serious law gives us the opportunity to solve what is important and that its objectives are not only about voting but also order in many other areas that will help us. I thank all those who, in their first and second readings in their discussion, gave their contribution to the vast majority, that is, the most important part as you said yourself, in here. Otherwise, this law has been passed and discussed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia because the Central Committee, Mr Buric, no longer exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25564	I thank the minister. And that's when the debate on the text of the law is over, so we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25565	Final proposal of the Housing Act, second reading of the PZ No. 143, the debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. I'm asking the government's representative to manifest himself. Deputy interior minister respected Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25566	Respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25567	Let's go in order, Deputy Minister. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25568	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25569	Amendment number one. Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the proposal, the final proposal. Let's move on, the Committee on the Constitution, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. It's the same amendment, it doesn't have to be declared, it's consummated.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25570	The government also accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25571	Yeah, 'cause it's the same amendment. Thank you very much. Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, Amendment No 1. to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25572	The government doesn't accept. By way of derogation from Article 12(2) of the final draft law, it is prescribed that it will not be exceptionally published under the official duty and database of residence and residence data of the person covered by the renewal or housing programme and that the property has not yet been refurbished, returned or otherwise resident in the Republic of Croatia. The transitional and final provisions of the final proposal of the Law of persons covered by the renewal or housing programme are located outside the Republic of Croatia and have not yet been renewed, returned or otherwise resident in the Republic of Croatia, shall be obliged to notify the competent authority in whose territory they have registered residence directly or through a competent diplomatic mission, the Consular Office of the Republic of Croatia, within one year of the entry into force of this Act. Those provisions shall be fully protected by persons whose real estate has not yet been renovated, returned or otherwise resident in the Republic of Croatia since their official duty, by any address at which they have registered their residence, but for objective reasons they do not reside.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25573	I ask that a representative of the Proposer of the Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Milorad Pupovac, be declared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25574	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. By refusing this amendment, you do not really want to include and treat everything equally, the whole legal framework that regulates the issue of return. The problem of return is not only regulated by the Rehabilitation Act and the Home Care Act, but also by the Return Programme of refugees and exiles to the Republic of Croatia. We ask that you respect the overall framework so that you can then make measurement decisions. This way you can wrong all those who for various reasons are unable to reside in their place of residence, whether because they have no electricity, whether they have no other social or infrastructure assumptions to stay in the area. And besides that, people who have been staying for over 20 years in the refugee service, they return back within a year after they couldn't be returned or could not return, it's not realistic to expect. For this reason, I think it is not good and it is wrong that the Government is actually accessing this problem because there is no difference between your government, Mr. Deputy Minister and the HDZ Government. All that HDZ has suggested you have adopted, and that is why I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25575	Please state who's in favor of Amendment number one. A club representing the Independent Democratic Serb Party, which the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 2 to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25576	Your Honor, the government does not accept. The proposal to delete, in Article 9(1), subparagraph 6 which requires that persons who apply for their residence give information on citizenship if they have a nationality of another country in addition to Croatian citizenship is not accepted. That information is often sought by the authorities before which a person who has a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia exercises certain rights in order to be able to verify with the competent authorities of the State whose nationality is exercised by that person certain rights and in that State.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25577	I would like a representative of the SDSS Club's proposed representative, Milorad Pupovac, to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25578	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The basis for obtaining residence in the Republic of Croatia is Croatian citizenship and the basis for a decision to delete from residence is also Croatian citizenship and not another state's citizenship. The primary citizenship for most people is citizenship in the Republic of Croatia. This applies equally to those who are settlers, settlers or who are Croatian citizens to whom Croatia is 92, 93. in BiH or Serbia, grant citizenship or refugees located in other or third countries outside the Republic of Croatia. So we think this provision is too high.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25579	Please request a vote, Your Honor... I ask you to plead for the amendment of the Club of Representatives which the Government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 3. to Article 10, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25580	Your Honor. The government doesn't accept this amendment, either. Proposal for a proposal to be made in Article 10(5) The final draft law adds words to which the police administration or becomes obliged not to carry out field checks within 15 days in the event of doubt in the statement of the person wishing to report the residence shall not be accepted. In particular, the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure applicable to the procedures for the application of the residence application are laid down by the deadlines within which a decision is to be taken on the request of the party. Therefore, there can be no unnecessary delay in the procedure and status uncertainty of citizens, as stated by the applicant for the amendment in his explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25581	Representative of the Proposer, Honored Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25582	Your Honor, Mr. President. We remain with the claim that the deadline of 15 days, which guarantees citizens legal certainty in determining the conditions for the application of residence, i.e. when completing the residence application procedure, and we also believe that a period shorter than that or a period that is not defined to the citizens creates legal uncertainty and legal uncertainty. And once again we want to tell you, Mr. Deputy Minister, you have done nothing that has not been done in Croatia so far. You've done nothing with this law that the police have never done before. The police have already wiped people out of the residence records. And in my speech in the House, I said in what period and how many people were deleted from the residence records. They're just deleted people of a certain category. They were not deleted just as they were insisted here in the discussion of certain colleagues and colleagues. And for that reason, I think this law, if you continue, and I see that you want to refuse amendments, will produce not only legal uncertainty but also serious communication misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25583	You're asking for a vote, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25584	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25585	Thank you very much. I ask you to make a statement about an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I ask that the Prime Minister be made aware of Amendment No. The fourth club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25586	The government doesn't accept. The proposal to amend the subparagraph 2 in Article 12 of the final draft law in a way that the exemption from the formal duty procedure from the residence and residence data collection is not accepted. We believe that for persons covered by the reconstruction or housing programme and their property has been renovated or otherwise taken care of in the Republic of Croatia, the main obstacle to return and residence in the area of the Republic of Croatia has been removed. As the use of the right to return depends on the will of a person to return by amending the provision as proposed by the applicant of the amendment, an additional exemption from the assignment under official duty from the residence and residence data collection would be applied without a time limit, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25587	I'd like a representative of the Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac's club to make a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25588	Your Honor, Mr. President. By refusing to put the return programme into effect as part of the MP's legislative framework, it actually derivates something that is still in force. And the programme of return of refugees and exiles is in effect in the Republic of Croatia and no body in the Republic of Croatia and neither can the Ministry of Finance, nor can the Croatian Parliament define this return programme with its own act. If it is adopted this way, then it will be a derrogation, then it will be the first time that the Parliament will pass a law that will derogate and halt refugee returns. For this reason, I would once again like to draw attention to the law that your colleagues and colleagues have always wanted to bring from HDZ, and you are now bringing it here with your majority and finishing their work. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25589	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to make a statement about the amendment of the club of representatives that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes were 86 votes in favour and 42 votes against the adopted Law on residence in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25590	Today we're gonna do another agenda act and we're gonna end it right now. This is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, first reading, PZ No. 232 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Administration, Honored Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25591	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. You have before you an amendment to the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, the law that was applied in practice for the first time in the previous parliamentary elections, and after which its detailed analysis of the application of this law was carried out and some areas in the law that should have been completed, processed, clarified, made afraid in the implementation. And that's the goal, the purpose of this law, not to derivate the current solutions, but to actually fix them. What has been done in this... since the beginning of its application is in fact... a very professional debate has been opened by representatives of the Ministry of Administration, Justice, Finance, the State Election Commission, the State Audit Office and NGOs and organisations. In addition, the amendments to this regulation and the addition of this regulation were based on a report by experts on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Croatia from 27 February and 3 March 2012. Just to remind myself of the recommendations made by the body, this expert gave and relating above all to the regulation of the bank's obligation to report to the State Election Commission on the opening of a special account, the prohibition of donations following the completion of the election promotion, the unification of the final and financial report on the financing of the electoral promotion, and the regulation of periods within which candidates in the elections are obliged to close a special account. All of this was introduced in a professional, good way into this regulation and thus contributed to it, it seemed to us significantly contribute to its improvements. These amendments are also based on the government's action plan for the implementation of the Open Authority Partnership Initiative, which practically provides for the creation of a prerequisite for public publication and the permanent availability of data on campaign donors and regular political action. Beyond what was said at the outset, it can only be added that numerous newspapers are and numerous are complemented. But perhaps a few, two three minutes of the most important. It is first and foremost determined that annual financial reports, financial reports on the financing of electoral promotion, are permanently published on the Croatian Information and Documentation Agency's website, with the possibility of searching the database on different grounds. That's your public availability. The amount of election promotion costs for candidates entering the second or next round of elections shall also be determined. The total amount of election promotion costs is increased in the elections for the mayor of Zagreb from 500000 kuna to one million kuna at the time, and in the mayoral elections, mayor of the big city and town of the county seat from the current 400000 to 600,000 kuna. These increases also apply to representative bodies in those units. National minority representatives who have run for office by political parties are not identified as special entities in the application of this law but are political parties who have run for office. Thus, they do not have the obligation to open a special account but the funds for their regular financing are paid to the political party's central account which has also run them. A very similar solution is also for candidates for representatives of national minorities who have been proposed by political parties. However, private law enforcement entities remain representatives of national minorities and candidates for representatives of national minorities who have been run by voters and associations of national minorities. It is also envisaged to settle the issue of availability with neutral donations remaining in a special account for the financing of election promotion after the completion of all transactions. It may not be too important, and to us it seems very important is to simplify procedures, simplify the conduct of business books for members of representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and to establish that they are obliged to keep a book of cash registers and income books, and thus it is important to simplify the complicated accounting of these bodies so far. A number of terminology have also been carried out with the Proposal for a Law on Local Elections, and these are the most important amendments to this proposal. The debate seems to show us that they are going in the right direction and that, while preparing between the two readings, this proposal could be a good legal, good legal basis for its implementation in the next period until the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25592	I thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we move on to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25593	Dear Mr. Vice President of the House, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. For years, there has been public talk in the Republic of Croatia about the problem of funding political parties and campaigns, without actually doing anything to curb the problem or at least reduce it. Publicly presented, documented accusations against some political parties, candidates, at the expense of their campaigns have not echoed for many years. On the one hand, we also witnessed that the State Audit each year reported that the financing of political parties independently was about their regular business or extraordinary activities, and the elections were orderly. The state audit issued unconditional opinions. And where they were conditional, it was mostly not about the most important topics, which is how individual campaigns are financed, how the work of individual political parties is financed. And then suddenly this bubble of soap broke, so after that famous positive opinion of the State Audit, we suddenly found that there was no word in that same report about that notorally blinded BMW, so we rolled the whole story to turn out to be actually asking if the State Audit reports were credible when it came to the financing of political parties and their activities. It hasn't been long, and we've also witnessed a new scandal in which the former prime minister told his successor that political elections are therefore being won under the table. Afterwards, the most corruption affair known as the Fimi-media opened up in public. Very unpleasant, not only for the party concerned, but for the issue of the development of political culture, for the question of the development of the credibility of politics in Croatia. How many years will it take, how many calls by the Parliament and the government's mandate will take hard and hard work to remove public suspicions of what political parties should do, which is to compete for power to work for the common good. The law adopted in 2011 introduced many, many orders in its novel, but the fact that this order is in one part of the general discourse with real life and with technical possibilities for its implementation. Turns out, the promoter predicted many situations but not all of them, some solutions turned out to be too complicated in the real real life of a political party or candidates in the elections simply unimplementable. In some details grotesque and ridiculous. It's no wonder. For the first time, we have passed such a complex law that should have come up with all the marifetteluks that people are able to use when it comes to abuse, such as using money for political or private purposes in politics. And that is why it is fully expected that the ministry is coming today with a proposal that this law should be fixed, that some of the doubts are removed from it and that some solutions are being better studied so that if nothing other local elections in 2013 would be welcomed with clearer but also more enforceable rules of the game, however, note that the Croatian Liberal Democrats are supporting and welcoming this effort by the Ministry of Management, we must make several remarks as it may be more appropriate to address the issues that remain open. Here's a few of those questions. In the current law in Article 14, it defines "donations to finance election costs for candidates who propose political parties in the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament in the elections for EU members in the elections for members of the representative bodies of units and regional or regional self-governments are paid to a special account of a political party that is obliged to open up the political party to finance the costs of election promotion". This section of that article does not give rise to what the DIP and the Ministry claim in their specific interpretations, which is that for each candidate for each list in each unit of local and regional self-government, it is appropriate to open specific gyro-accounts. You are given the implications of reading from the later parts of this article, but not in such an explicit way as it has been stated so far in the explanations of the Ministry of Administration. In fact, we know very well how many units of local and regional self-government exist, so the figure is that some middle value or the average per unit of local and regional self-government appears 5 to 7 lists in local elections. The same way to expect 3 to 4 candidates for the top places, we're talking about the average. In cities in major units of local self-government, the number is much smaller in smaller municipalities. But the average tells us that, in practice, according to this situation, as it is and how the proponent does not intend to change in these changes and additions, or still does not propose, it is worth expecting to open between 8 and 10 thousand gyroacs in business banks. It's such chaos and nightmare on one side where we actually rub the fat neck with a fatty goose, which is the banks because they'll take the charge to open the gyro-accounts, to run the gyro-accounts, eventually and to close the gyro-accounts regardless of whether there'll be any traffic on it. A colleague from another party said on the committee yesterday an example showing the paradox of the situation. If, say, a candidate declares in advance that he will not spend a single lip for his promotion because he is not going to do a classic campaign but only a door-to-door campaign, which is in small areas where little voters are fully expected, regardless of which he has to open a gyro budget in a bank which, of course, does not exist in his municipality, but in a town maybe 20 or 30km away and will have to write a report, regardless of which he will not have any traffic and eventually have to close it, so all of this is pointless and unnecessary. On the other hand, the possibility of a concrete response to what it means in the case of coalitions has not been left. If five parties come out with a single list, why must these five parties open five gyro-counts to finance their election promotion? It may be because of the circumstances given because some of these parties do not have parliamentary status at this time, but they are carrying a valuable egid they can expect not to participate at all in the financing of the electoral promotion of the list because of where we are from. We're back at that same point opening a unnecessary jury account. Can we go to solutions that in this sense will be more liberal if you want and more transparent because the opening of a jury per party per municipality in every city and county does not mean a better insight into the situation because the reports will deafen the competent services so much, the DIP, the revision itself that we will ultimately have no real insight into the situation. Because as the former prime minister said, the election is under the table, not through the jury. So we need to be aware that whoever wants to break the law and who wants to corrupt it in a way that spends some money illegally so they won't be paid into a jury account, they'll find opportunities for different donations, services, this and that. It can't be controlled through a jury account. Furthermore, the provision of Article 12 of these amendments and the additions relating to the bank's obligation to notify the DIP of the opening and closing of the specific financing account will in fact stifle the DIP data and will not contribute to any concrete control especially when this first point I was talking about is taken into account. Furthermore, the current Article 18 of the Law states that the right to compensation for the cost of electoral promotion from the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government shall be those competing in local elections. We have a situation not in one municipality but in a whole series of municipalities that they do not pay that fee at all, although it is their legal obligation and that parties and candidates who have achieved their right under the law that this fee cannot be paid to them at all, and the law forces them to report on the completion of the campaign, to close their account and ultimately to the political parties come into a position that they must sue municipalities and cities for what they are required under the law to pay. Why? Because there's a sword over their heads to the state audit that says you're breaking the law. You must do so at the time when the legal conditions are obtained to demand the debt of those who are legally in your debt. How in this case, or in the case where compensation from the local budget is paid, in view of the number of members of the representative body in situations where municipalities do not want to report at all whether they have made a decision on such a fee, how much it amounts, do they even pay it how you will bring the political party into the situation to even ask for that type of claim? You're welcome. It does not have financial indicators, nor does it have a foothold in the number of decisions, i.e. the act itself. And the State Audit is asking for it to be done, if you don't do it, you've broken the law. It seems to me that these are some of the imperfections of an existing model that should be considered until the second reading as well as another, and that is where it is also said in Article 18 that the right to compensation for election promotion costs for the European Parliament will only have those lists that make 10%. That's where the analogy with the presidential election is drawn as if it were the same thing. Why is a 10% threshold set? No offense, the honor of each of the SDP colleagues and HDZ colleagues, but this provision actually allows for only the two parties to receive election expenses in each European Parliament's elections, and all others to be depressed at the beginning. That's not right. I think that this amount, or percentage should be put exactly as defined for the parliamentary elections, which is 5%. And then it's a threshold that will achieve relatively few of them, but it will be a fairer game, among other things, for this right defined by this law. Repeating our position that we will support your efforts to change this law in the direction of a better, more transparent, cleaner legal language, and then better and more enforceable legal provisions, we ask you to keep this in mind and to use all your powers by mid-January when we expect you to come to us with a proposal for a second reading that this, especially this issue of inflation of bank accounts that serve nothing can be solved in a more acceptable way which will recognise coalitions, recognize the fact that many parties have fully centralised financial operations. Some colleagues in some parties have only one jury account. Our party has 21 county accounts so that we, besides the central ones, have these sub-accounts through which we control funding within the party itself. So it's a completely centralised system. Now, overnight, drive these sophisticated systems, systems that have been getting a few years in a row of unconditional opinions of the State Audit, to force them to open several hundred new giro-accounts, I don't think it's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25594	On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. The club loses its right to debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25595	Here's this first law-reading, little to wake you up, we might as well call the anti-fimmedia law. Because we are aware of the fact that many have jumped out of pate, many have jumped out of meat breakfast, many have, and this is not just about you, I would say to most political parties, especially those who have exercised power, where many things have been done that have not been related to a fair and fair campaign. And they weren't related to fair and fair financing of political parties and the fine media thing, I called it because it's the freshest example. So neither the left nor the right and rare are those who could boast regardless of the unconditional opinions of certain audits that all these companies were extremely fair, extremely fair, that all donations were reported both in money and in other forms. Therefore, as HDSSB, we will support this intention to bring order first and foremost into the financing of political parties, political activities, but also election promotions. However, just wanting to make a contribution and not wanting to repeat this, and what Goran was saying, having the same experience that is related above all and to the functioning of political parties, I think it is also not good to open a series of not only hundreds but also thousands of special accounts, but that it can be resolved in the current accounts of political parties, either one or any of them. I think that many, imagine only the majority of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia in which the HKB has now closed down the office, so imagine a certain time as it has been these days when, although most of the elections are not in times of weather and elemental disasters but imagine that these elections are being held at exactly the same time when many cannot, for the sake of suspension and railways such as Osijek, Đakovo, Zagreb, do not settle certain state roads that are in a catastrophic state and do not pass through the State budget, simply do all of these legal provisions that stand before them, before the very financing of the election promotion and do not reach the bank at all in order to open a jury budget. We also believe that these penalties are also because I do not believe that Croatia can repeat extremely large donations that have often been made under political pressures we have witnessed now and in this trial where certain witnesses say that in fact a particular political party has been financed, but not wanting to attack only one political party now. I think it can happen and happen to everyone, to all those who exercise power, because first of all, it's a similar concept that's happened before. I therefore believe that these penalties should be drastically reduced, because in penalties, therefore, in these fines, we have misaligned all participants of the electoral process until, within the limits of the total amount of election promotion costs, we were not unique and we do not have the same censorship as in the penalties. We also do not have the costs of electoral promotion from the state budget or the budget of units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, it is one of the basic assumptions that this law must level through and the system of compensation and the cost of electoral promotion but should also be defined if we already separate them at the level of costs in promotion, then the penalty if this fine, i.e. the penalty for violations, for a legal and physical person should be divided in the same way as it is separated at the very height of the total cost of election promotion. Now 8 million kuna, when we talk about the total amount of promotion costs, is about the election for the president of the Republic of Croatia. A million and a half kuna is tied to one constituency in the elections for MPs in the Croatian Parliament. It is also a million and a half kuna in the European Parliament elections. So that's some ground and some big no proportion between the election for MPs and the election for the President of the Republic. I believe that this amount of 8 million kuna, despite the fact that the entire electoral unit of the Republic of Croatia is extremely high, and especially this new proposal relating to the election promotion for the mayor of the city of Zagreb, where 500 kuna have been in this proposal so far, and now that amount is rising to a million kuna. So far, now someone will try to explain to me again what this great city in the Republic of Croatia means and only the headquarters of the county when these great cities of ours, we can say that there are most 4 of them: Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split. All of these are smaller cities in the context of Croatian cities over 30,000 inhabitants are actually cities, all of these are below and previously were seats exclusively municipalities while today we have about 300 or 400 settlements that have city status, status which have probably gained through history not and status through infrastructure equipment, number of inhabitants etc. So that amount from 400,000 rises to 600,000. At the same time, I will only mention Gospić, who has 11500 inhabitants who have or 15000 inhabitants along with suburban settlements, Gospić is the town, but according to this campaign for Mayor Gospić, since this is the headquarters of the county and the mayor of Lika-Senj County, since it is the headquarters of that county in Gospić, you will be able to spend a million and 200 thousand kuna in the campaign. While you're at it, for example. in one Đakov who has over 30,000 inhabitants of power in the campaign to spend 250,000 kuna. So that's one huge disproportionate. There is also a huge disproportionate amount of compensation for the costs themselves, and you will be able to spend between 3001 and 10000 people, and 50 thousand kunas to a municipality that has 3000 inhabitants and who probably don't have that kind of budget that would have to go into such an election campaign at all. So I want to pay attention to these certain and very large disproportionateities right now. We also believe that for the European Parliament, but also for the President of the Republic of Croatia, all political parties and candidates should satisfy the crossing of the electoral threshold of not 10%, if the electoral threshold is 5% then all should be entitled to compensation because these 5%, and no election in the Republic of Croatia will prevent adventurers from reporting to elections, for example. for the President of the Republic, various associations, various characters who may be under these new laws and feel more free when they know they can unpunishely answer for a certain sniffing of certain opiates like that shaman. So these are the basic remarks to this law. The intention is good, to put under control the funding of all and what I particularly want to say, that this law should be in mind and this tomorrow's law package relating to the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Local Elections, where in Croatia if the Parliament accepts that one I would say a constitutional category, and in any case we will be given to the assessment of constitutionality one such law where a direct mayor is elected unless a budget is adopted in the representative body or in the county assembly, so for the mayor or municipal council that then elections go to the municipal council and for someone directly elected by the citizens, unlike the councils that were elected indirectly. So this law should take into account a series of re-elections in local and regional self-government over one year, and I believe that this law should not have special benefits that range from 20 to 50% for members of national minorities because they, in my opinion, in an election cycle in conditions where all citizens are equal before the law do not have and cannot be an exception. So no matter what national minority it is, no matter what part of Croatia it is. And in the end, no matter how many amendments and additions I made, how much they put under control and participants in the election, and the participants in the election are citizens themselves who hope to see more and more that this is their right but also their obligation. We must first of all make sure that this response that is now in the elections for the Croatian Parliament, both for the president of the state, is as much as possible for local regional self-government as possible because this response to the election each year is talking enough about this profession, about politics, about us politicians. In every grain there are weeds, but in every weed, there are wheat. So I hope that certain laws, but above all the laws that are passed in this Croatian Assembly, will allow for greater turnout of these citizens right through an increase in their standard of living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25596	We'll hear another club, the HSU club, and the esteemed representative of the Zeljko Shamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate, I'll be extremely brief because everything I've been meaning to say has already been mentioned by my colleague Beus, especially as far as our main remarks are concerned, which is the opening of thousands of jury accounts. Due to the observations and the state audit that we have each year, we in Croatia are foreigners of pensioners this year just completed the process of abolishing, shutting down the giro accounts regarding municipal and city organisations and we are running the entire business according to the accounts of the county organisation, with sub-accounts of certain municipal city organizations. Of course, as a smaller party, we don't have a lot of giro traffic, so we transferred everything to one account and it satisfied both us and the audit. This mass-opening of the giro account does not contribute to any greater quality than the wealth of banks, because banks make significant funds every year if we look at all parties and thousands of organizations. We don't have major objections to this law, but we are opposed, we strongly oppose this way of controlling the election campaign because we think we can find a better solution than this. I hope that by the second reading you will find a far better solution and quality control of this next election campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25598	Thank you. We will also hear one individual debate from the distinguished representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25599	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here are the working groups for the draft of this law that we are talking about today, which I must say I support, which included a number of experts, representatives of state institutions and Transparency International but not representatives of political parties. In my opinion and their participation at the very beginning would not hurt, because whenever a proposal is discussed, about a law, about any topic, it is logical to ask for opinions and those on the subject. This can only contribute to the quality of the law, and then, of course, to its application later. Another proposal related to the composition of the body. This time about the State Election Commission. The law stipulates that the State Election Commission, in cooperation with the competent electoral committees, oversees the financing of electoral promotion and all activities related to the financing of electoral promotion, and this bill proposes the supervision of the annual financial report. The State Election Commission employs exclusively graduate lawyers and therefore misses people with knowledge and experience in finance, accounting and audit. In my opinion, it is therefore necessary to analyse the existing Law on the State Election Commission of our Croatia and to consider perhaps possible changes in the profession or perhaps a change in the composition of the commission. The proposed law provides for yet another situation that I think may have to approach differently. In fact, political parties are proposed to be independent representatives and selected from a list of voters who received donations during the first six months of the year due to a donation report or a half-yearly report publicly published on their websites. They are obliged to share with the public and information that they have not received information on their websites, and they are extremely able to publish all information on websites and units of local and regional, or (regional) self-government in which they operate politically. I believe most of the chosen will decide. And here, in my opinion, we are now experiencing a potential problem, or obstacle, which, in the 21st century, unhappily and unbelief at all warns us about. Because in the 21st century, the official website should be inevitable, even the primary communication channel of the public authorities' bodies, and it is therefore incredible that in Croatia some units, in fact some municipalities do not have their own websites, therefore do not have their official websites. I therefore warn of the proposal because if the law says that certain information should be published on the websites, and there are no websites, then there is little to think about how to solve it because they do not exist. One more thing. The draft law provides that units of the local and regional self-government political parties and independent representatives are obliged to notify the address of the website on which they have published, or on which half-yearly reports and donation reports have been published to the Electoral Commission in writing. In my opinion, and yet I say in today's time, and especially when we're talking about websites, that's what we're sending notice about, it would be good if it could be done clearly by e-mail, that is, how it's actually said by official e-mail today. I suggest, therefore, a respected deputy minister with associates to consider this option and to install preferably in the bill perhaps until the second reading. In my opinion, I'm sure I've saved money and time for those who eventually take that option and decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25600	Thank you. A esteemed representative, Damir Cain, also applied for the debate, but since he is not in the hall, he loses his right to debate. So we'll hear from Mr. Zoran Piculjan's Deputy Minister of Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25601	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I really must thank you for this brief but fruitful debate. What seemed important here was not just the remarks of a technical nature related to a special account, the right to compensation for election promotion costs, the amount of promotion costs, even penalties, and the equality of all in the electoral process. That is why we will carefully try between the two readings, I would say good solutions, but of course not the perfect solutions to this proposal, to further work out to find an even better control mechanism for election promotion. What we seem to be able to add, which is that what we may have missed in the first part of this proposal is that we will try to include political parties when we have an appropriate text that will be good for discussion so that and to which this law is applied we can give our pain before parliamentary debate. Intervention in the Law on the State Election Commission to review, see and then make decisions. And what's also a series of suggestions you've made that are either technical, but they're not just technical, for example. The website of all units of local and regional self-government certainly in today's time that, just a few days ago, there was a debate on the Law on the right to access information that implicitly, but directly commits all these units to the application of modern technology and communication that is really appropriate today, which is communication via the Internet. I thank you and until the next reading, we will really carefully and professionally discuss all these remarks with you until we enter a parliamentary debate in January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25602	I would like to thank the esteemed Deputy Minister, Mr. Piculjan. And that's where we stop working. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on our agenda, that's the final proposal of the Law on Election Registration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-11-0.u25603	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, first reading, PZ No. 232. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes have 121 votes in favour and 6 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
