ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13817	My colleagues and colleagues, we're starting work. I saw it, I saw it, I'll give you my word. We start with work, just one piece of information. At the beginning, today we will discuss only this proposal for a law on probation, and we would vote at 11 o'clock, so if the debate is not over, we will hold a vote and we will continue the debate. So much that club representatives can ensure the presence of representatives. The word was requested by a respected colleague, Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13818	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So due to the new circumstances relating to Croatia's entry into the European Union, the HDZ Representatives' Club is seeking a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13819	Okay. I'll set a break since you had time to consult 15 minutes ago. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 15 minutes off. We leave at 9.50. Here, time for a break has passed. I'm told that on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the honourable representative will speak... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't understand what you said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13821	Mr. Vice President, when the HDZ Club asked for a break, no club asked for a break. So, with all due respect to the other colleagues, if you don't ask for a break, then you can't even win it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13822	I said that on behalf of the HDZ Club they would speak...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13823	No, no, I'm talking up the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13824	Please don't. Let me run the session. Here's a list for the Probation Act. Please. If we get that off the technical service screen right now, he'll have work to do. But be so kind as to allow me to hold a session, if I make a mistake, you warn me, but for now, I'm still judging that I'm not. So they tell me that on behalf of your club, is that true, will colleague Davor Stier speak. I'm asking him to come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13825	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Somewhere in the late 19th century, an incompetent government in Paris falsely accused a French officer, Captain Dreyfuss of conspiracy with Germany against the interest of the French homeland, and then a well-known novelist named Emile Zole wrote in an already legendary newspaper article..., accusing the government of lying and thus defending the integrity of the falsely accused dreiffus. Today, according to the morning paper, it looks like we're having a new dreiffus affair. As they say, it is now called Operation Stier, and it can only be one diphthamation operation for both me and HDZ, and reportedly the summit of German politics that we conspired against Croatia's entry into the European Union. So what a lie. I can only say as in the Dreyfuss affair..., I accuse Mr. Milanovic and the Government of falsely creating a single structure about some alleged plot against Croatia to cover up their own incompetence and unhappiness. I'm accusing Mr Milanovic of not doing his job well and of now looking for an alibi in some sick conspiracy theory. I accuse Mr Milanovic of fabricating internal and external enemies under the old communist recipe rather than doing his job, to read the European Commission's report, to complete all tasks for Croatia to join the European Union on 1 July 2013. Responsible work, it is the only way to ensure that the government enters the EU and it really does not need to be stopped, Croatia must, Croatia will enter the European Union on 1 July, we will all fight against anyone who wants to stop Croatia. Croatia should not be stopped, Mr Milanovic's paranoia should be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, this paranoia has obviously come out of some fear. Perhaps the fear of seeing that HDZ is the one who knew in much more complex situations to unblock the negotiations, to successfully complete the negotiations. Yes, we have experience and knowledge. Yes, we also have good connections in Europe and the world, but instead Mr Milanovic should be afraid to create conditions for normal communication and co-operation between the government and the opposition that we all work together on the well-being of the Republic of Croatia. But he flees from it; he boasts; he threatens; he insults. He's not ashamed of himself! Since he is not ashamed to accuse us of some conspiracy to negotiate when he goes to Germany he speaks of Croatia as the nation of an incredible paradox. He's not ashamed of himself! And therefore my message is very clear today, Croatia has earned its place in Europe, but we do not want surprises in the spring and therefore we want the government to start with serious work now, it must be taken to work. And it is no personal message to Milanovic. I'm not saying he doesn't like Croatia, there's nothing good about it. I'm not saying he's a bad man, I'm just saying he's a bad prime minister. And that is why colleagues and colleagues if Mr Milanovic does not want Croatia to stay in the Truffle Balkans, if he wants us to join the EU on July 1st, then let the job finally be taken and we will all help there. But if Mr. Milanovic does not want to take the job then let him step down, let him go but let him not look for the guilty in others, let me look at what he has done so far. Don't ask for an alibi or excuses because when it's done it's always the first step towards acknowledging your own defeat, and we don't want defeat. When it comes to Europe, we want it to be our common victory on July 1st, to celebrate that Croatia has finally achieved its European future. Thank you. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13826	Thank you very much. There's a colleague called Dragovan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13827	I'm looking for a break for the club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13828	What are you looking for a break for now?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13829	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13830	Wait a minute. Mr. Dragovan, excuse me, explain to me why you're looking for a break, give me a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13831	Because of this presentation by the representatives of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13832	Because of the presentation of representatives of the HDZ club, the SDP club is looking for a break. HDSSB club, what's up? You have to get up and say what you want and what you want to say. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13833	I haven't even started yet. Dear Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HDSB Club, I am also looking for a 10-minute break and in connection with the presentation of the HDZ representatives so that we too would be able to show ourselves to their exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13835	Not to repeat for the same reasons on behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club I am looking for a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13836	Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13837	On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break because my colleague Stier hasn't been able to tell us everything in the last five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13838	I'm not going to let my colleague Schucker let the HDZ Club, no matter what the club is, the biggest opposition party, I won't let you take a break. You had a break... You don't have a break, I won't allow a break for 10 minutes. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Break time's up, we're back to work. This, given that only in Parliament, the purpose of Parliament is to speak in it, although I estimate that I should not do so under the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure say that at the request of the club, a pause is determined after which the club can speak for 5 minutes, and the reason cannot be to extend that speech because it has failed to say everything that was meant to be said. But, in this assembly, I want to create one tolerated atmosphere, one atmosphere of respect for all clubs and all MPs. After this break, club representatives will speak in the order they reported. First it's SDP, then HDZ, then HDSSB and Labour. I hope that after these speeches, there will be conditions for us to continue working on the agenda of today's session, because that is what citizens expect us to do with the laws that the Government has sent us, which we have placed on the agenda. I now call on the representative of the SDP, it will be the president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13840	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs, respected fellow MPs. It is not unusual for all business opportunities to be used in parliaments to place policies and views of individual parties or individual political options. This is what we support and that is the meaning of parliamentaryism, but it is not acceptable, and it is not good, it is neither in line with the Rules of Procedure to abuse the Rules of Procedure in order for a personal frustration to be presented as a policy. In particular, it is not good if this, called politics wants to deal with the government or the Prime Minister in addition to the Rules of Procedure. All this was possible to do in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, interpretation or other options. This does not contribute to Parliament's reputation, and even less contributes to the improvement of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For the public, I must repeat that the SDP Government changed the direction of Croatian politics in 2000 and directed Croatia from isolation to the European Union and the path of entry into the European Union. I'm sure the citizens remember that, but I'm sure the MPs in this House do. Secondly, the SDP policy was formulated as an alliance for Europe. This fact is still valid today as an alliance for Europe, and it is not good, I will repeat, from personal frustration, to tear down that alliance. And it's even worse to abuse the Rules of Procedure and deal with the government for personal interest. The government is Croatia regardless of what the political option is and the government is taking care of national interests regardless of whether some or some policies satisfy everyone in this assembly. Disqualifications don't help, it's my point of view from the first day of politics, arguments that, but disqualifications don't, conversations yes, but conversations mean that you have an interlocutor and that you call him to Parliament, that you offer him talks and that you offer him arguments. I think that, that he's an ally of every policy, in the end I'm going to say, he's a bad ally. So we go back, return to the interests and policies that enable Croatia to take steps forward, not stop them. The government has been open so far on behalf of most of them it can be said in future and all calls for conversation, whether in Parliament, or in the public, are welcome, but I will repeat, with argument, without personal frustration, without disqualification and without saying it, but I ask for forgiveness, without abuse of Rules of Procedure and a painful blow. We are open to dialogue on all issues that will help Croatia go the way it is targeted in 2000, that is full membership in the European Union and all interests, I repeat, we think seriously that we can solve all interests related to the European Union in the Alliance for the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13841	Thank you very much. HDZ representative Davor Ivo Stier. [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I didn't realize one thing whether you sent messages to me or to Mr Milanovic. Because when you chaired the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, when Mr Milanovic said that those who were not born in the Republic of Croatia cannot understand or love Croatia, then I don't know how to qualify it differently but to attack a person. And here's because I'm being accused of controlling the German media, you don't think I'm controlling Inoslav Besker, or that he's some right-handed man when he wrote that you had to interrupt the prime minister immediately after such an attack. So, you were talking about personal attacks, I absolutely agree, but then you had to give an example right then, right then. I said my messages weren't personal to the Prime Minister. It's my right to estimate he's a bad prime minister. And I will never say that he is a bad person or that he does not love Croatia or that there is nothing good in him. I was talking about a policy on the wrong policy that attracts an extremely important country such as Germany, the European Parliamentarians, the very top of German politics into a troubled area that can only harm our interests to join the EU on 1 July 2013. We want a debate on Europe, to agree, Mr. President, and then to open a debate in the Parliament on our entry into the EU. Because we lost that instrument that the Croatian Parliament could control the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. During the HDZ government during the negotiations, there was not a national committee led by the opposition and all arguments, all the views of the Republic of Croatia had to agree there with consensus. But then the National Committee was lifted. All right, the negotiations have been successfully completed, but the law on the relations between the parliament and the government has been promised. He's not anywhere. And the Parliament has no control in that segment, the kind of control that the government needs. And that's why we have to, it's our duty to warn ourselves that we don't want surprises in the spring, that we want to say clearly here to change things. When did that last EU Commission spring report come, what were the reactions back then? Mr. Prime Minister said so it's a report that doesn't serve the commission on honor. It's a responsible policy, it's a responsible politician. Mr. Vice President spoke of shaking from criticism. It seems that today in the SDP and in the Kukurik coalition, many are shaking about it. That's why we don't want any surprises. When we spoke don't go the wrong way to deny what you yourself accepted through the National Committee during the negotiations, and now that you're in power to change the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Law on the Police. It's the wrong way. The commission's report will come and then it'll be a problem again. We warned, but it didn't stubbornly go that way. It's our intention to work together, and we've been looking for consensus about the HRT Act. What was the coalition's response? The consensus is good when the SDP is in opposition, when the consensus is in power no longer needs it. So there's no parliamentary control, and then the public can't control what the government is doing. And that is why we do not want surprises, and that is why we need to warn now and in this way because it is our goal and I agree and I believe that most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia aim not to delay, to become a full member of the EU on the 1st of July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13843	On behalf of the HDSSB club, the respected representative Dinko Buric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13844	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We are indeed in days and moments that are unusually important for Croatia. Yesterday we witnessed very worrying statements by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia which give reasons for concern and opposition, but which give reasons for concern above all Croatian citizens. I'll say two things only. One refers to the fact we could hear from the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, that some parties did not say the party, but some parties are working against the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the EU Parliament. The HDZ recognized itself in this and reacted now but I would ask the Prime Minister of Mr Milanovic to then, when he speaks in the plural, be quite specific and state what he specifically meant because as observers in the European Parliament, at SDP and HDZ meetings, as well as with his observer HDSSB and the Croatian Labour Labour Party have observers, there is also Mr Milorad Pupovac's representative. So I'd like it to be more specific. Another reason for the serious concern of Croatian citizens, which is why it is necessary and must be discussed and held in the Croatian Parliament, I hope and believe not only during these five-minute breaks and breaks, is one extremely worrying statement that we could hear yesterday from the Prime Minister, which is that the new financial framework now being discussed in the European Union for the period 2014-2020 does not match what we signed when we ratified the agreement. And that is if you remember something that is precisely what we HDSSB advocates are asking a number of questions on behalf of those citizens who have been in the dilemma to vote in favour of a referendum or to vote against entry, to deserve answers to these questions as well. One of the most important issues was and how much will we really cost membership in the future financial framework, and encourage then-already two-sense statements already made by Mr. Linic's new Finance Minister, you remember that there was talk that there would be 9 billion, then that it would be 3.5 billion, so on the question of the Journal of Commerce, from the difference of 5.5 billion kuna, if I remember correctly, we didn't get any answers. And yesterday, Prime Minister Milanovic announces that it is not what it is, and rightly so, I am concerned as much as I am as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and I liked that sentence and she gave me reason to believe that we will not allow, no one, by ruling or opposition to be played and deceived and the victims of something that nobody told us when we negotiated and negotiated entry into the European Union. So there is no price for Croatia to become a province in the future megastate of the European Union where anyone will be entitled to veto decisions made by the Croatian Parliament. The state budget of the Republic of Croatia will be brought to Zagreb, not Brussels. I believe that from the message of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic who gave yesterday that he would insist on it and that he would not allow what happened to us in the blackest scenario to those who were against joining the European Union. I'll finish, thank you for giving me this and...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13845	Thank you. It already is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13846	That's why I'm still reminding you, it would have been good if we had listened to our suggestions that that referendum held on 22 January this year had not been held so hasty but had been spent and waited maybe three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13847	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists, the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13848	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am really sorry that we must open the topic of Croatia's entry into the European Union and the process under discussion because of the Prime Minister's statement in Brussels. I am extremely sorry that if he had to ask some other political party for their action, he did not do so in the Croatian Parliament. It's a place where such things are discussed, but maybe it's good because now it gives us a chance to remind ourselves of four things. The Croatian Parliament issued a referendum on Croatia's entry into the European Union and after that, no debate, no information and no report was given by the government to the Croatian Parliament. This shows the government's relationship to the Croatian Parliament, and three things, three topics, three problems that have really happened, and it has been warned by us about this speaker. First, the problem of some members and blackmailing Croatia in the process of ratification of the accession contract. The government then claimed there would be no problem. Is today Croatia has a problem with some members in ratification, whether this is the topic at least the Parliament needs to know about, gain, debate, see. So we're facing a ratification problem. Secondly, I asked and warned, advise all of us to resolve border disputes with neighbouring countries before Croatia enters the European Union. BiH, Montenegro and Serbia, none of these unresolved border issues in this House has been seriously discussed in any constructive way and the government's proposal to know in which direction the issue goes further. Or we'll be in a position again to have some promotion contracts, secretaries, deputies, assistants, advisors at an embassy in ten years' time surface as some bilateral acts, deals, temporary regimes or anything. And thirdly, the President of the European Commission made it clear that the debate opens in Europe in the middle of next year, and that the EU is working towards federalisation, which includes common fiscal, monetary and banking policy. That practically all the moves that are already being dragged into the EU towards the banking union. The European Union is created as a Federation created by money, coins, a historical example where the euro, currency will create and create a state in the interests of bankers, the banking lobby and the banking system. Of course, such a changed Europe is looking for either a brand-new EU or a Constitution. When the first attempt to adopt the European Constitution was made by the democratic state, there were referendums and the constitution fell and the procedure was suspended. So it went the other way. Is it possible that after all these announcements, but also the preparation of acts, that is, the EU's policy on fiscal and monetary union, is not a subject that in no way does the government come before the Parliament and open a debate and at least that brings the view of the Government with which it is going to negotiate further in Brussels? If this had been done and had at least one debate been held after the referendum, there would probably not have been a need today to discuss the Prime Minister's statements not in Parliament but somewhere outside the topic. And it would be extremely good for the Prime Minister to take this message very seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u13849	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the agenda points. Now we're going to the agenda points. - Proposal for a law on probation, first reading, P.Z. No. 179. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Justice Minister Ms Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18446	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, respected MPs, are before us the subject of probation, what is often generally called work for the common good. Although working for general well-being is only one segment of the probationary system. In fact, when we talk about probation, that concept includes the treatment of the perpetrator of the crimes in the community in which he lives. Therefore, it is an extra-institutional treatment of the perpetrator of a criminal offence for which the court has assessed that it is not necessary to separate him from the environment in which he lives, but by setting certain conditions for his freedom and by providing assistance to overcome certain life difficulties, it can achieve the purpose of criminal justice sanctions. The probationary system provides us with what we have defined and what is, in fact, the basis of the criminal law system, which is cooperation with the community to protect the public and reduce the risk of relapses through rehabilitation and reintegration of perpetrators of criminal acts into society. The enforcement of criminal sanctions in the Republic of Croatia is prescribed by the Law on the execution of prison sentences and the Law on Prosecution. The law on probation that we passed in December 2009 replaced the previous Law on the execution of a conditional conviction with protective supervision and work for the general good, and that law was from '99. A year. The law on the execution of a prison sentence and the Law on Prosecution constitute the normative basis for the start of the development of the probation service, and the basis for the start of this action was in that first Penal Code that we passed in '97. And the '97 Penal Code. it has already contained provisions on the possibility of replacing the sentence of imprisonment with work for the general good at freedom or the sentence of probation with protective supervision, with the possibility of imposing more obligations on the convict. Therefore, prior to the establishment of a systematic probation service, the sanctions imposed by the courts were imposed in exchange for a prison sentence. The Prosecution Act adopted in 2009 presented the basis for the development of the probation service and the testing offices were opened in 2011. In order for the trial to be carried out except for that part which falls within the jurisdiction of the judge and, in particular, the execution judge, it is also necessary to establish probationary offices to monitor, check and provide assistance in the implementation of the probationary system. 11 probation offices have been established, another one is being opened and they are in the jurisdiction of the justice ministry. What leads to the need for the Prosecution Act to be thoroughly amended is the fact that the Croatian Parliament has passed a new Penal Code that will enter into force on 1 January 2013 and the provisions of this law are adopted by newspapers in determining individual institutes from the jurisdiction of the probation service. The concept of applying the work for the general good has been amended given the different concept of the purpose of short-term prison sentences, i.e. prison sentences up to one year and fines, the types and scope of individual obligations for which the court may impose on the convict the work for the general good as well as the possibility of making safeguards available, and the safeguards provided for after the law has been imposed, so after the full execution of the prison sentence, which will naturally affect the development of the probation service. What is summed up, newspapers, and what is important, in this law that we propose in the first part, we make general provisions on purpose, content, ways and bodies responsible for carrying out probationary tasks. We express the fundamental principles and rights of persons involved in the trial. In the second part of the law, we prescribe, above all, what documents on persons involved in the trial, design and water testing offices, and private heads are processed institutes on the exercise of protective supervision, work for the general good and special obligations. According to the current Law on Prosecution, the Prosecution Service carries out a conditional sentence with protective supervision and work for the general good on the loose, and an increase in the work of the probation service that brings the new Penal Code, and with which we are harmonising this law, is safeguard control. Namely, the Penal Code stipulated that protective supervision was no longer carried out only with a conditional person, but that it was carried out with the work for the common good, and with a conditional discharge from the maintenance of the sentence as well as after the convict had fully executed the prison sentence. Due to that particular head, it is arranged to conduct a consumer service in the conduct of protective supervision, or to refer to the exercise of protective supervision and to the obligation of the probationary office during its execution. Also, work for the general good has been extended by the Penal Code. Namely, the Penal Code passed the opportunity to express work for the general good in the sense that the mandatory replacement of prison sentences was imposed for up to 6 months, working for the common good. And if a prison sentence is imposed for up to 1 year, the court is allowed to decide whether to replace such a sentence against each individual convict by working for the greater good. In addition, the Penal Code also touched parole, related to probation, namely the decision on parole is now in the jurisdiction of the court and this is reflected in the exercise of supervision of paroled persons in the preparation of parole and in the light of the decision on parole of the prisoners. In this respect, the testing offices shall prepare and send reports in the probation procedure. The criminal law also extended the list of specific obligations, had 15 clearly defined and 1 general special obligation that the court may impose on the perpetrator of the criminal offence as well as the possibility of applying specific obligations. The special obligations of the court may be imposed with a conditional sentence, with work for the common good, and with a conditional discharge from the maintenance of the sentence of the prison, regardless of whether protective supervision has been given. In the law, we intervened in the sense that we left out from the list of activities of the probationary offices of the work related to the organization, assistance and support of the victim, the injured or family of the victim or the family of the perpetrators. Namely, these jobs in their structure do not fall into experimental affairs, and the protection provided by the victim, the victim's family, the injured or the perpetrator's family are now organised through a special independent sector within our ministry, an independent sector for the protection of victims and witnesses. So this no longer falls under the law of probation. Here, in conclusion, we have adapted the legal framework for the work of the probationary system by amending the Penal Code, empowering existing tools and instruments that will be able to respond to increased and modified requirements. It was necessary to include in the legal text a whole series of amendments to the former Law on Prosecution, based on that concept of criminal, old Penal Code of 97 and the procedural provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Instead of changing the law we decided on a new law because the change is so much that the new system and the new law represents an appropriate response to the challenges that the trial and what we have said, work for the common good and protective surveillance will put ahead of us in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18447	I thank the Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSU Club, a distinguished representative of Vishny Fortuna will speak. I remind you that at 11 o'clock, we will hold a vote and call on the MPs to be instructed from their cabinets to the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18448	Thank you, well-respected vice president, respected ministry representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, testing the conditioned and supervised freedom of the perpetrators of the criminal offence during which probation officers carry out procedures aimed at reducing the risk of re-initiating the criminal offence. The law of probation adopted in 2009 aims at humanising the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the dispensation of prisons and detentions, cooperation with the community in order to protect the public and reduce relapses in the pursuit of new criminal offences. The new Prosecution Act is proposed in order to adapt to new legal frameworks that provide additional tasks before testing and transfer services with increased and amended requirements. Since the new Penal Code has prescribed broad application of the Institute of Protection Control, the Proposal of the Prosecution Act follows these proposals and the scope of the work for general good has been expanded. The sooner it wasn't possible, given the punishment obligations. Then, the extended length of working time for the general benefit instead of 60 working days, a duration of up to 720 hours, or 360 days, is allowed. Those amendments allow for a more quantitative performance of the work for the common good. The probationary section is of exceptional importance, in particular as it relates to aid before, during and after discharge from the application of the penalty. The testing service in this respect should be a quality source of security and assistance centre but not only for the person in the trial but also for everyone in the system who cooperates with that person, and for the purpose of quality implementation of the measure. We actually heard from the Ministry's representative that everything has already been done and that we have it in law. I would especially like to emphasise the importance of the network system in this whole process. The tasks of the probation service are broad-spectrum and put before it responsible tasks which cannot be performed by the person involved in the trial, which can and must take the person on the right path if he does not act interdisciplinaryly, and only an interdisciplinary approach can get the person on the right track. If it doesn't work that way, it's a lot harder. Prosecution services are faced with extensive and new challenges which certainly contribute to the fact that the day of the Republic of Croatia's accession to the EU will also be responsible for implementing foreign probation decisions. Discussing and respecting all the proposals of the new law and the scope of the business he foresees, the increase in the funding provided for as necessary for the implementation of the new law 2013. In 2014 and 2015, we consider it actually justified, but in the concrete justification of the means necessary for the implementation of this law, we will know at its annual implementation, so when we will see through the work reports of the competent authorities how many persons are really involved in the trial and how effective its implementation was. To this end, I reiterate the need to implement evolutions of the sampling measures, whose knowledge will then offer new directions for the quality development of this very important and important measure. Finally, in order to carry out the testing quality, we would need the networking of the system that points to the trial of the judiciary and the system that... failure to perform the trial is social protection and other activities that will be networked in that system. The probationary service is set before extensive and new challenges that must be formed and carried out in a quality way in order for the purpose of testing to be fully met. The law on probation is certainly commendable. In one part of their life, he has committed something that society does not approve of and that society is unacceptable to those persons, and in order to train them to return to the primary community with certain court messages to support the penalty for failure. Because let's not forget, the punishment ends, the sentence of prison is executed, but the life that remains after it must continue. And it is therefore the task of all stakeholders in the testing system to train the person involved in the trial as best as possible to live in the community and to be a quality and equal member of our society. Another commendation of the Law on Persuasion, he breaks prejudice, prejudice about prisoners as individuals of whom he has no use for society, even if he poses a danger to that same society that early inclusion of the person in testing on the right path is carried out and the person involved in the trial but also her and her closer and further community will be our members of society. And for the end, I would especially like to list the leader for the application of the law on probation drawn from the law. The institutional treatment of perpetrators of criminal offences is no longer a dominant option in modern society, but a retention in the community and the application of treatment outside prisons and penitentiary, which are the standards for which Europe has decided and were the guides in the introduction of probationary services into the criminal law enforcement system. From all this, the Club of Representatives of HSU will support the adoption of the Prosecution Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18449	Thank you, too. The SDP club's position will be presented by distinguished representative Draženko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18450	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. As already mentioned in the proposal for a Law on the Prosecution of the Law, it is necessary to comply with the new Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act. We welcome the fact that the proposer is giving a new bill to bring this issue into line with the new provisions of the laws mentioned, but it introduces new elements. We welcome this primarily for the transparency of the law but also for the emphasis on further evolution on better solutions than existing ones. The laws that preceded this law, the Law on Prosecution, the Law on the execution of a conditional conviction with protective supervision and work for the general good on the loose meant essentially the beginning of the development of a probation service in Croatia. This, in Croatia's legislation, was essentially accepted by that mixed concept, which represents an upgrade of the French-Belgian type of conditional condemnation to the elements of the probationary system which draws its roots from Angolan law. History of the introduction into the Croatian legal system is recent. When the Penal Code was passed in 1997, which introduced the possibility of replacing the prison with a general good free sentence with protective supervision, let's say, at a global level, that is to say, in a not-so-recent 1841. Already, in the first trial practice, there was noticeable benefit from such a system in reforming and rehabilitating delinquents and logically followed its adoption through laws and judicial practice. In 1878, the first law to regulate that matter was passed. In the continental practice, which originally knew only the conditional conviction as a warning measure, it was observed that there was a greater chance of resociating certain perpetrators of criminal offences if, with a conditional conviction, a positive social action in the form of assistance, protection and supervision of convicted persons is envisaged. Over time, it has proved to be extremely necessary for the perpetrators of criminal offences to provide assistance and supervision in order to avoid the launch of new offences. In particular, this applies to individuals whose social integration has been, since the beginning, in a certain way defective and living in a marginal social position in an unsatisfactory social environment. The presence of these permanent, unfavourable factors therefore indicates the need for appropriate treatment. These convicts needed to point to the causes of delinquency and thus to be helped to control them. Therefore, any correct criminal policy must be considered primarily to be the resociation of the perpetrators of criminal offences, so that we are strongly helping to be a prevention. By penitentiary or threat, the punishment in the event of a reenactment of a crime, we do little to remove the cause, to prevent the committing of a crime. Of course, it is primarily necessary to create social conditions that do not suit the creation of crime factors, but also at that individual level of understanding which has led a certain person to a situation to commit a crime. There is no better method than direct insight into the life situation of the perpetrators and therefore taking appropriate measures aimed at resociating, rehabilitating, rehabilitating and bringing out of the zone of... the launch of a new criminal offence. So some available data on the success of the application of the digestive system in countries where this system has been applied for a long time show a successful end of the trial period of about 87% and a breach of the sampling conditions in some 15% of the cases. And on the other hand, certain research carried out by the non-prisoned population shows that those convicts who carried out the entire prison sentence within a certain institution show a significant rate of relapse of as much as 72%. These data also give the right to those experts who claim that prisons are in some way "criminal colleges", and that prison punishment greatly deepens the gap between prisoners and their social environment and indicates that it is necessary to find as much alternative to prison sentences as possible. So since this institute... is a widely applied Anglo-Saxon legal practice... most often we find studies and data from that system, so let's say in 1999, a study by the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research estimated the reasons of the 26% drop in the rate of violent crimes in the United States between '93 and '96, so even 26% of the decline and it was concluded that the trial was one of the most promising means to reduce the rate of crime, but it warned therefore that the means could be used far more effectively, that it was a tool that was often poorly used and in such cases did not give results. Thus, the success of the probationary system depends not only on its introduction into legislation but on its real implementation. The surveillance of delinquents must by no means remain only superficial, take down, for example, the ritual visit of a probationary officer. Also, regardless of what the basic thought of punishment guides must be, resociation, implementation of probationary affairs lightly, without a clear message to the perpetrator of the crime that the non-execution of his obligations will be sanctioned is essentially counterproductive. We assess the necessary rapid and effective action of the competent authorities in the event that persons involved in the sampling system, by their actions, prevent the achievement of the objectives that these systems want to achieve, it is necessary that the delinquents involved be very aware of this. The handling of competent authorities shall be as short as possible and as effective as possible in such cases. In particular, it would be concluded that this extension of 3 days for the launch and review of protective supervision to 7 is not eligible as set out in Article 19(3). I allow it to be, of course, a matter of following up on a practice I have no insight into so far. In any case, we think it can be concluded that in order to be effective, it is necessary to leave as short and tighter deadlines as possible for the infringement of the obligation of the delinquents, which are therefore determined for them. For such an opinion, we find confirmation of international practice. In particular, certain pilot projects have noted that the efficiency of the testing system is diminished if the obligations of the delinquents involved in the programme are taken lightly and if the breach of the obligations is not sanctioned quickly and efficiently. By analysing this law, therefore, we of the SDP Club believe that it is creating better conditions for the purpose of this law to be fulfilled. So now probationary activities include organising and overseeing the execution of work for the general good, as well as organising and overseeing the implementation of specific commitments from the KP and commitments of the CAP. In Article 3 below, as we welcome, an individual approach is highlighted to each person involved in the trial. It's the right way, it's a good foundation and for further expansion of this instrument that takes an increasingly significant place in our criminal policy. I would also point out the new article 34 that did not exist in the current law, which allows the ministry responsible for affairs... the conclusion of cooperation agreements with citizens' associations and other legal persons registered to carry out humanitarian and other similar jobs. We consider the introduction of this provision a step therefore in the right direction to involve the community as much as possible in this extremely important problem. This is what we consider to create a basis for opening a wider engagement in countering crime, but also to help delinquents themselves and their family and the environment. Otherwise, this idea of involving external factors in the sampling system has, therefore, roots in English practice from the end of the 19th century and it is obvious that it has potential. Since its comments, Mr Grbin pointed out that it is necessary to intervene in Article 25(3) where the article should be amended in such a way that the overall duration of the postponement and termination of the work for the general benefit may be longer than 60 days if the reason for the delay or interruption of the overall risk of pregnancy and parenting is. In order to achieve the objective of the trial process, which is thus highlighted in this introductory section, certain means will be needed for the teaming of probationary offices and their training and training. Officials who will be in charge who are already in charge of implementing this law must act in the community, carry out complex assessments, make complex reports. Some of them are likely to find themselves in awkward or even dangerous situations. They must certainly, without exception, be extremely qualified and highly professional in order to do this extremely important job properly. I'm sure it's worth it, but the benefits can be multiple anyway. On this subject, it should be borne in mind that, ultimately, the successful implementation of the trial process also brings material benefits. Surely even staying in a penitentiary isn't cheap, as much as I think we can agree that it costs a lot more than conducting a trial process. When talking about this issue of costs and material opportunities, it should be pointed out that the capacity of the prison in the Republic of Croatia according to the data I have from 2010 is below 3500 prisoners, during that 2010 the number of prisoners in prison exceeded the number of 5 thousand. Therefore, largely those capacities with which the Republic of Croatia has available. And the success of what should be the basic thought of the leader of every criminal policy in the state is rehabilitation, the resociation of the perpetrators of criminal offences in order to prevent, therefore, the practice of certain perpetrators of criminal offences is significantly, significantly higher if we act outside criminal institutions. Of course, the application of the trial is difficult to take into account those perpetrators who do not show any will or capacity to resuscitate, but such cases do not, of course, reduce the importance of promoting this system. Finally, we believe that this proposal of the Law on Sampling further promotes a greater shift towards a mixed system which we consider positive and further promotes probation as a system of active surveillance and assistance for perpetrators of criminal offences. We therefore believe that this law will contribute to the achievement of prevention, primarily of a special but general nature, that it will contribute to the resociation and reintegration of delinquents into the social community and therefore, of course, the SDP club supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18451	Thank you very much. We will also hear the views of the Croatian Labour Party. They will be presented by distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanic. And at the same time, I'm calling on the MPs to take their seats in their benches so we can determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for the adoption of this law is the standard respect for the EU's gain that we are doing neatly, as we have seen before, compliance with the new Penal Code and the Law on Criminal Procedure harmonize the laws of one another and one reason that doesn't seem to be written inside, and that's what prisons are all over us so that they don't live in there anymore, they need to be well matched to stop. Well, now that they don't stop, then we'll put them in the probation system. I sincerely hope there's another reason that's human, which is ethical, and that's some kind of civilization achievement that we've actually realized that there's no point in sending people to prison for six months for some minor offenses, that resociation can be achieved much better out there at large. I hope that's actually the key reason for this bill. Technically, the law is well written. I'm not trying to find any serious remarks. It's systemically written, comprehensive, and it's all very nice to see what's going on, especially this processional part. So how is that trial going to happen? The question that is always being raised with our laws is how it will be implemented. In the light of the law, there is an intense talk of saving. They'll be saved on people, hired by a third of what was planned, saved on equipment, saved on everything. How much money, how much music. I'm afraid the system in that cutting and saving system is not going to work and it's going to cost us more than it would cost to keep it straight. Another question to answer does the Republic of Croatia and its judicial system have qualified people to implement this? This isn't a simple thing. These are people who are educated both as criminals and as sociologists and as psychologists and mass of other specializations and subspecies so that they can normally work with people who have broken the laws and who need to be brought back into society. The third element that I find critical in the implementation is work for the common good. We all know what it's supposed to be and we all know what it is. In most cases, it's a cutting ambrosia. And it's a useful job. And ambrosia should be cut, but what if the ambrosia is gone? So what are these people gonna do? I'm afraid these contracts to work for the general good with companies are too small, that the state hasn't worked hard enough here. The trial should in some way protect the public from the potential danger of the re-enforcement of the criminal offence that the defendant, the accused, has committed, and in this sense it is a useful social instrument. So, at a small cost without jail, society is protected. Probation is, as Article 4 of the Law says, interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary work. I'm not sure that we're besides watching American films about probation officials that we're aware of how complex this is work and who in Croatia can do it all. Prosecution is an individual procedure, so it's done with the individual convicted, with the individual. It's an expensive procedure to hire an expert, but even cheaper than to lock up a man like that, get him back into a relapse with a new criminal act. Some things are not quite clear to me, Article 11 says that there is, an assessment of the criminal risks and the treatment need for each person involved in the trial when there is a need. Who decides that there is a need for this, whether the probation officer or the court in this case is not clear. One of the neurals here is the chapter 7 that speaks of work for the greater good. We have a problem for the general good to hire our unemployed. Where the promoter intends to hire these people, I don't quite get it, but I guess there's some plan and I think it would be good to see that plan here in Parliament. Here, I'm done right now, you don't have to talk that much. Article 26 speaks of antiquity, so, "If the convict has not begun to do the work for the greater good, or has not been completed by the statute of limitations after a while." I wonder how that's possible. Who's to blame if a man hasn't done what he's convicted of or failed to complete, how it's possible that such a time limit that's been prescribed for certain crimes and that we're mentioned here, there's no statute of limitations, and no one's responsible for that. All in all, the law is good. Until the second reading, I hope that there will be some confusion here and that we will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18453	Thank you, too. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first is a respected Mirella Holly and his replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18454	Thank you, Your Honor. I know these... Deconcentrated since we're waiting for the vote. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]] But here it is, given that my colleague Vuljanic mentioned ambrosia as one of the options for probation, I think, and in that sense I would suggest here it is, ladies from the Justice Department that there is another job that could be very socially useful, that could be employed by these people, and that's cleaning up the waste dump. Since the waste situation is the biggest problem of environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia, and also of the type of work that prisoners would be dealing with in this regard, I believe that this would have a very positive impact on the future prevention of criminal acts of this type, each type.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18455	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18456	Thank you, colleague Holly. Of course it's a job these people could do. And if it's something socially beneficial business, then it's exactly what ambrosia is, and the resolution of illegal dumps, and maybe help on, in working on some legal dumps that have already become a threat to cities like Varazdin and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18457	Thank you, Your Honor. Next replica, and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18458	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuljanić, given that you mentioned the measures of probation, which might also relieve prison systems, prison facilities in the Republic of Croatia, I must say that regardless of the current conditions and conditions in prisons, so also by those standards that we should respect the number of prisons and prisons in the Republic of Croatia is very, very scarce and small. However, when you have already mentioned the cleaning of ambrosia, regardless of what small or capital there is growing in Slavonia, therefore the cleaning of dumps, wild dumps or legal ones, given the prison facilities and distribution of prisons in the Republic of Croatia, and the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to build and upgrade prisons in Zagreb. And yet it has been neglected and a decision has already been made to build a prison in Slavonia, three counties, Osijek-Baranja, Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijemska. It seems that with us ambrosia in Slavonia will continue to grow, because there will be no people from these prison facilities that are very, even the smallest in our region, so Požega and Osijek and nothing more. So with us, these wild dumps would remain still, and ambrosia would reach those proportions of height and thickness that can really characterize it as capital, ambrosia capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18459	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18460	Thank you, Mr. Grubisic. At first, I said that one reason for the law to be passed was to make it quite safe and to facilitate the situation in the prison system, although it doesn't say it inside. We have a prison, and it's no wonder. We have a prisoner, and it's no wonder, too. The distribution is obviously not good, you are right, there are candidates in all regions, and all regions are not represented enough and quite certain that the opening of another prison in Slavonia would help, not only to remove ambrosia but also to Slavonians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18461	Thank you, Your Honor. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18462	Dear colleague Vuljanic, I don't agree with you that there are too many prisoners. I agree with you that the prisons are overcrowded, the prisoner is too small. If the state's attorney did his job, they'd be full and building a prison would be one of the more lucrative jobs in the Republic of Croatia. Sadly, many who are viewed as pillars of society deserve this as I once said a grateful view of the world. Unfortunately, there are many such politicians. Instead of pulling out ambrosia or agreeing with distinguished colleague Mirel Holly to clean up garbage dumps, they're holding on to moral discipline, and that's just proof that we're deeply immoral society.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18463	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18464	Very short. It's absolutely certain that not all those who should be in prison and quite certain that there's a crowd in prison, which just means that this system makes sense, maybe people could be persuaded to finally make something in life for the common good. Well, if that can't persuade them, maybe the court can talk them into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18465	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the vote as we announced as planned. Continuing the debate on the proposal of the Prosecution Act. The next is the HDSSB club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18467	I'm waiting for my colleagues to part.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18468	My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats if you are going to follow the debate, and if you are not going to follow the debate, then I ask you to continue the conversation elsewhere to allow your colleagues to take their views. Before he takes the word one notice. The session of the Legislative Committee will be held at 13 a.m. today in the hall of Janko Draskovica, hall number 202. We're continuing the debate. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Here we go, the debate will be brief given that there have been a number of topics today, so we may have gotten a little lost in this problem, but we have a proposal for a law on probation. First of all, I will personally say that the purpose and purpose of this law is not only to relieve the burdened prison system in the Republic of Croatia or to reduce prisoners in Croatian prisons, but rather to help and rehabilitate those who have committed easier crimes, which are prison sentences for up to 6 months or up to a year so that those persons can be resociated in the society in which they live, and that society, or the system as such, would help them to return to that community in a more acceptable, normal way to normal life. It is no wonder that these people are facing problems, and it is certainly essential that we give this law now in our first reading, although there are provisions in the Republic of 1997 that regulate this problem. The law on probation thus helps those people to return to society and resocialize in several ways. The new Penal Code, which will enter into force on 1 January 2013, provides for a number of new measures and we and a number of special measures with this proposal for a new Penal Code, of course we support. What is not good from this bill, which is that the government of the Republic of Croatia's Action Plan, which was adopted in 2009 through 2014 and all those implementation plans that were related to probationary tasks, do not have sufficient financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia because this legal vision is good. The legal vision helps people who have committed easier crimes to rehabilitate in society, to do useful work for the common good to contribute to the Republic of Croatia and to themselves personally to return to the community. The projected resources of the state budget are insufficient. The envisaged employment plan for 80 persons has fallen annually because of the financial situation although we think this is a very important topic and this is how funds should be provided because the system cannot function unless there are enough trained staff, professionals who will implement this law or professionals who will help such perpetrators to return to society. What was under the 2008 IPARD programme is of course not enough that all the challenges that the new Criminal Procedure Act has put into the hands of both the State Attorney's Office and the courts and judges of execution in determining and making it easier for penalties and early layoffs to work if we ourselves have not secured the framework, and above all, it is a human and financial framework so that this law can truly live. The trial is in itself a positive measure, we do not have to say that in Croatia new prisons and prisoners, I do not think it is necessary. However, it is necessary to help people who have faced problems, who have not committed more serious crimes, to return to normal life for various reasons, and to have both the state and the community, and the local community, and to help the courts in this way really rehabilitate and not to repeat these crimes. The purpose of this law, therefore, is not only to help, prevent, but also to prevent new cases of relapses, to return those persons who are sometimes in unembarkable situations. This is not about perpetrators of criminal crimes, of serious crimes, of serious criminal offences, but of easier and such persons, it is really this law that helps. We support this law as a club HDSSB. We call on the proposer and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to find funds in the national budget for 2013. A year. In order to really be employed, we have seen that there is no employment ban on this system, that there is no ban, that there is no ban on funding and that the capacities are allowed, indeed, by professional staff to assist persons who have come under its measure under this Prosecution Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18470	I thank you, too, and I invite my colleague, Marjan Skvarić, to present the position of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18471	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, a respected deputy minister with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS club, the liberal Democrats, will support the proposal of the Prosecution Act. First of all, why would we support him? Every time we think that some laws must be lifelike, enforceable, and especially just, I, too, can personally say as mayor of the City of Leprechaun that after 10 years we know very well how these laws must be implemented, righteous, lifelike. Because especially when it comes to decision-making by the state level, the local level, if it concerns citizens first and foremost, that's how here are convicted persons, and the officials, then we certainly have what to say and how to say. Well, what are we going to have with this law? No matter what we say, but the emphasis has to be, if we have fewer people in prison, if at this point it's more than 30% re-tracted, then first of all it's gonna be more security. There will be better conditions and security must always be seen from the context as prisoners, but always as the safety of officials. Well, there are about 3700 people in custody in our country who are shorter than 6 months each year, which clearly burdens the prison system. In 2011, there was, with this latest data, 4950. Last year there were as many as 18 suicide attempts in prisons, two suicides. Behind the bars were found 3.5 kilograms, 3.5 grams of heroin, 1.5 kilograms of cocaine, 18 grams of marijuana, 93 tablets of ecstasy, and 7 knives, 3 chickens, 30 cell phones. Last year compared to 2010, there were 50% more attacks on officials. That's what we still have to point out if it's people if it's about people, center, around people, that if we have fewer people in prison, more security. Of course, this is about achieving a more humane approach, socialization,... Normal civil life. [[The speaker is not understood for reading too quickly.]] And we need to see what we can do after we've implemented all these measures. Cost segments are important. The sampling system is up to three times cheaper than the classical execution. Not only that, but the state pays fines for inadequate accommodation conditions. When all the requirements since 2008 are summed up, Croatia is threatening to pay even about 90 million kuna, that is, if we do not have conditions, which is in 4 square metres, 16 cubic metres per convicted person in one space, then the state pays the fine. Oh, yeah, maybe we're making fun of that moment and the case of that person who gets killed through the pragabation, those people of the state don't need to be fed anymore. It is, of course, important to improve the Institute of Work for the General Good because it will nevertheless introduce the possibility of working on the organisation of public areas, in hospitals, schools, kindergartens, nursing homes. These are the facilities that... By humanitarian work, we really need to make it possible for these people as well. [[The speaker is not understood for reading too quickly.]] Of course, there would be another mention of the digression, in Croatia it is defined by law that the work of convicted persons is not mandatory, so that the same around these cost parts reduces capacity and everything, also in the future to enable them to work. Of course, those means that could be provided could be invested in improving the living and working conditions of prisoners. Also, if I get 15% on my hands, which he gets after serving 2/3 of the fines can also be used for some of his own needs. Of course, all of this is not a coercion, to point out that a probationary convict can be involved on the basis of his written consent and thus guarantee his protection of the personality and secrecy of the data. Little is the only question here, if the work of such persons is really on probation within their place of residence, or housing, we all know each other in slightly smaller environments, so there are certain problems. Now, did she in any way give the secrecy of the data, not to be said that it was for serving the sentence. Of course, this concept of the bill follows according to the newspaper contained in the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. First of all, the establishment of a trial system of the Republic of Croatia was managed among other international standards, the recommendations set out by the Council of Europe Committee on Prison Conditions, the improvement of the amendments to the European sanctions rules, and the measures implemented in the community and the conditional discharge. It's good to mention that and such experience with... Croatia, we have very good levels at European Union level and there is this adjustment, especially good, good solutions, and it is very important. [[The speaker is not understood for reading too quickly.]] Let's just say after all this, a few more words about the practice institute itself. It is about the regime of supervised freedom, the model of a society’s professional reaction to the punishment or misdemeanour of individual persons. The court imposes a penalty but it is not executed but remains in its midst under expert supervision and with professional assistance. There it is necessary to emphasize that now in the delivery of parole the man is here we can say let alone always be on my own. And punishment always has consequences, above all, on the person who is on the execution of punishment, his family, his environment and without that professional... and experts in some way the measures that are being implemented are much more difficult in life itself. Of course by testing... the conduct of a criminal offence during which probation officers carry out procedures aimed at reducing the risk of the crime committed again. [[The speaker is not understood because of the speedy reading.]] There's a great deal of it to go back to the penal system after you've served your sentence. Here's just maybe for comparison and Leprechaun's before the penitentiary was called the KPZ Penal jurisprudence prison here today is only called the Penalty in Leprechaun, it has been reportedly missing because it is very difficult without a whole systematic adjustment and promotion and work that it is very difficult to achieve. Of course, the program is based on the assessment of ability, health, qualifications, against the criminal past, so that nothing is really left to the case. And, of course, first of all, the Prosecution Office would have to submit a whole series of reports from Articles 14 to 17 alone as a state attorney, a court, a judge, a report from the penitentiary or prison. However, that part of the report would require that it may be necessary to see that these reports are, in themselves, the purpose of red tape but that they really lead to another objective. What is equally important is the trial being carried out in a place where indeed one synergy, the interaction between the person and his family and everyone in that part is particularly stressed that the purpose of the punishment is to be carried out and that the relapse return will be in as little part as possible. I would not mention that Friday's articles concerning these acts but above all, I would point out that critics of the idea of introducing a probationary system could say that they are doing it to the perpetrators of the crime to go as so-called. by imposing soft sanctions for the mere reason of discharging the currently overbooked prison systems. However, in considering the purpose of sanctioning, it is rare to forget the perception of those to whom these sanctions apply. the perpetrators of criminal offences which may be significantly different from the perception of those who impose sanctions themselves. In each study, here I was based on the conclusion that the wrong idea was that prisons are worse or more severe than alleternative sanctions in the community. As punishment is spoken, there is no punishment, and there is no ease, and there is no weight. And in conclusion, what can be said in terms of Croatian expectations of bringing the digestive system, above all... could be expected as much as we invest ourselves. The framework is set and success depends on careful implementation of monitoring and evolution of implementation, permanent education of implementing officers, professional public, citizens, politicians and also the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18472	Thank you. We'll hear more views from the HDZ Club and the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The HDZ Club maintains that there is a need to amend, in part, the existing Prosecution Act of course as a consequence of the revision of the system law of criminal law, so above all, the Criminal Procedure Act, which will take effect on 1.1.2013 and the Criminal Procedure Act. Therefore, the trial was defined as a conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators of criminal offences during which probation officers conduct procedures aimed at reducing the risk of relapses, successful resociation, treatment in the community so far out of prison. The public should also be warned and not forgotten because this morning I listened to the news on Croatian Radio where it was said that it would be discussed in the Croatian Assembly on the Law on Testing, and that the newspaper of this proposal of the Law on Testing is actually the introduction of work for the general good where it will then be able to work for the common good and thus serve punishment. So it should really be said that the possibility of working for the general good was introduced by the '97 Penal Code that the Law on the exercise of probation with protective supervision and work for the general good at freedom from '99 regulated that matter. It is true that neither the courts gave sufficient judgments, nor in practice brought the institute back to life, so it was not sufficiently implemented. But it was carried out, we all know that there were commissioners who were overseeing persons on parole and those who were assigned to work for the common good on the loose. In 2009, the Prosecution Act was passed which in one systematic way solved it. Namely, he set up probation units so the central office and the district probation unit at the Ministry of Justice, and since then, it has been determined that the trial will be conducted by state probation officers, thus obtaining a legal institutional form. I would say that this new law, which is proposed today, because the proposer has assessed that given the change in the structure of the whole law, given the new tasks that the CAP and the KZ have been given, this requires an amendment to the entire legal text. Of course, if a lot of provisions change, then it's better to change the whole law. After all, those who spend it will find it easier to do so. But I would say something else, so I repeat, we have often heard here in a debate in several debates that it will cut off the law and that it has said so. It's not about introducing a rehearsal, or it shouldn't be. It will eventually happen, but therefore the first war was fought and it is a strategic provision of probation is co-operation with the community to reduce the risk of relapses, reintegration and reintegration and, above all, work with the perpetrators of easier crimes so as not to come into a situation in prisons of criminal infection if the purpose of punishment can also be achieved in this way. What I would also point out, which is that according to the current law on probation, the Ministry is obliged to submit one annual report to the Croatian Parliament. The last report we had in front of the Parliament was a 2010 report we discussed somewhere in September 2011. I therefore believe that we could discuss this bill far better today if we had a report in front of us on the implementation of the 2011 trial, from which we could see how the law so far has been implemented, where there may be obstacles, where they need improvements, and we could all talk about it. I warned this about the Committee on Justice of the Ministers, he promised to deliver the summed data to the debate in the Assembly, but we did not get them, and since the Ministry has the obligation to the Croatian Parliament, I think it would be a good idea to submit this report and to have it under discussion on the final proposal. I think it's good this new text of the law has dropped that provision to file an annual report to the Parliament which I don't think is good. In fact, it is a new service that still has its own difficulties in the structure and it is good that, and it is desirable, so we all support it, we all want it, we all think that it will have good consequences, socially good consequences, so it is good that we get reports about the situation in the penitentiary and prisons to get this report too, so that we all know together how well to act because very interesting data can be read from the report. Let's say from the 2010 report, then we can read that 10 officials were educated in 2010, that all probation offices were arranged and informed, that in 2010, 1091 convictions were issued with protective oversight and work for the common good, but we also read that only 390 such judgments were carried out that year, and that 1659 were waiting for them to be executed, which apparently says that the testing arrangements were not capacitated and can't implement them. It would be interesting to see what happened in 2011. It would also be interesting to have a record in particular of the implementation of the security measures to be imposed. These are withdrawals, psychosocial treatments, mandatory treatment measures that have been made almost 60% of the cases, but it would be interesting to have information about their execution and whether they have been carried out because I warn, they are often pronounced but the institutions that should be implemented are not capacitated and do not accept convicts for such treatments. And now given the time, so a few words about this new legal text. There is also another point to point out that a strategic document relating to this part of the trial is being brought here in the Croatian Parliament, which is intended to employ 240 probationary officers over the course of the 3 years. In fact, we can prescribe many beautiful things by law, but Europe simply asks you immediately when you say that you will do something, how much money you have to do for it, and how many people will work on it. So the strategic document envisions the employment of 240 probationary officers, however, apparently given those money amounts the ministry can discuss with, it is now predicted that they are now employed by 50, that 90 more will be employed. I doubt that it will be possible, given that the strategic document according to the tasks at hand was provided for 240, that with all these new tasks that the probationary offices received under the criminal law and the CAP, it will be possible to do so with 140 people and, in particular, in that part, they are not really clear sources of the necessary means to implement the law, which then drastically provides for 730 000, and in 2014. 4 million and 350, etc. When that jump will occur and why it does not occur before and warns of the disproportionate amount of resources envisaged for employees and for material costs because the material costs are disproportionately small and will not be possible to work with it. But a few more things that are foreseen by this new law. I don't doubt that the ministry's proposal to have this whole head of staff and the structure within the ministry kicked out of the law, because it really doesn't need to be done in detail to edit that matter in law. But what you need and what you will certainly miss, which is that now you have left only a provision in relation to probationary officials who are educated in the field of social pedagogy, the work of psychology, exceptional and other social and humanistic sciences. So that's where it's to say that you hung up that there's no longer any obligation to do what we used to call high professional equipment so that these jobs can be done by low-priced officers. The reason is that in some parts you can't find qualified persons which I don't think is quite so given the number of people registered in the 2010 competition, but that's not so important. It is important that a provision was drawn from the law which gave authority to these probationary officers to obtain data, to enter the documentation, etc. And that they have an official card and that the minister will pass the rule. So, you now have no authority in this law for probationary officials, how they will appear when they appear somewhere, how they will obtain data and documentation, whether someone is obliged to give it to them or not, this new bill does not contain it, and therefore I think that from the existing text of the law they should leave that part of the probationary staff who would then give them authority because they certainly need that information. Otherwise he won't be able to work. I warn you, that was Article 4, so paragraph 3 is the one talking about probation officials. I also warn of Article 7 which defines volunteering. So the basic principle of trial is volunteering. It's a foundation, it's a foundation. But, of course, there are some provisions for the new CAP and the KZ where even without the consent of convicts or defendants to act, but that is an exception. Therefore, it should not be formalised when the law requires a person to be involved on the basis of a personal consent but rather on the contrary, as the article so far has been corrupt but added to having legal exceptions. Therefore, a person should be hyperstimulated in the trial only on the basis of personal consent unless the law sets out otherwise in order to clearly highlight the principle of volunteering. I warn more, for I will not have time, and I must warn myself, therefore, of article 15, which I spoke of, that is, Article 38. — the transitional and final provisions which determine that this law will enter into force on 1 January 2013, with the exception of the provision of Article 15 which will enter into force one and a half years later. And you know what article 15 says? That article is now in force, I think such a provision is now in force, and such a provision must be implemented, and it is the reports of the Office of Prosecution of the Court. So, the Prosecution Office will have to submit reports to the state's attorney and to the judge of execution and to the penitentiary, but the reports themselves will only take a year and a half to be delivered to the court. And the minister explained it with the weak capacitation of the Prosecution Office. However, I warn that when the Prosecution Office already has certain information and a certain file and all of this together, why only the court will not have the right to come to them, and I note that it is important for the court to ensure the presence of the defendant and when it decides on the type, choice of type and the level of punishment it is certainly so, and when it decides on conditional leave at the end because it is also a new task of courts, and that is good, that the decision to suspend it has been transferred from the prison system and the executive authorities to the courts. It should also be added in Article 15 to the Court’s report for the purpose of a decision on conditional discharge. And something else I notice in the text of the law, and I think it should change that these reports always have some strict provisions at the request of a lawyer will be delivered, must be delivered etc., and anything relating to the courts says the court may obtain from them or the court may request, but there is no strict provision anywhere that they must deliver it. And I think the same tone should be kept in relation to the State's Attorney's Office and the courts. Here, we will support this law on probation in first reading, of course, with all these comments and suggestions on the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18474	Thank you. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, here is only a brief thank you for this very contentious debate, especially in this second part. What I think is very important to point out is the purpose of developing a sampling system is not to reduce the number of prisoners or protagonists in our penitentiary, prisons or institutions the purpose of this system is one higher level of criminal law policy, and we can even say the socio-legal policy that I could if you allow me to be symbolically aware of three Rs. So, rehabilitation, resuscitation, and relative to relapse, the reduction of the risk of relapses. These three categories require activity and we are convinced that through a system of testing these goals we will achieve, but they also require the activity of the entire social community and all those who are aware of the interest of society that convicted persons should be rehabilitated and resociated back into society in order to reduce the possibility of repeating criminal offences. What is very well pointed out here, so we can expect as much as we give ourselves, and I think that the sampling system will have its own life if both the wider community and the local community and the Employers' Association and in general everyone realizes how important it is to go in this second direction that what we achieve through the separation of convicts into penal institutions is something that may not provide that level of social protection that can provide probation. We have insisted on increasing the costs that will be, or resources that can be entrusted with the trial to achieve its objectives. We insisted on making it possible for new people to be hired. We didn't get the step we were looking for, but we also have to notice the rehearsal exists since 2009 and that since 2009 it's been established as it should have been, we shouldn't be in this problem right now. But step by step, we're here where we are and we're confident that we're going to achieve this 3R together, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18476	Thank you. Now is a good time to stop working for the day. We will continue on Tuesday, October 23rd, at 9.30 a.m. with the bill on voter registration. I want everyone to have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-19-0.u18477	I would like to ask before moving to the vote on the topics that have been done to determine the presence of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, quorum simply put. Thank you very much. I note that 122 MPs are present in the Chamber of the Croatian Parliament and that we have enough representatives to decide on all the proposed decisions of today's vote. Let's get this straight. Proposed law on probation, first reading, PZ No. 179, the debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. "1. The draft law on probation is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find it unanimous, with 123 votes for the proposed conclusion. Honorable MPs, respected MPs, first thing in the morning. Let me just say hello to the honourable MPs. So, I warmly welcome you. We continue our work at the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament. I expect dedicated work, tolerance and successful debate. And now the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker has something to say.
