ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u14999	Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on concessions is a roof, general law governing all basic issues related to all types of concessions on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to this roof law, concessions are still regulated through 18 sectoral specific rules governing concessions in certain areas and for certain activities. Taking into account how the law regulates concession rules in a number of related but different areas, and how the advantages of concessions are realised through three types of concession contracts defined by the law, the practice has shown that the rules currently governing concessions require the introduction of certain newspapers which will reduce the occurrence of uncertainty in the procedures of giving and the implementation of concession projects. The reasons for proposing a new Law on concessions are primarily motivated by the need to align with the latest international practice and trends on the European and world market. Concessions are a complex instrument whose conditions, realisations and application modes are constantly changing depending on the needs of the public sector and the market. The amendments are also encouraged by the need to introduce additional transparency and efficiency in the concession system in the Republic of Croatia with a view to reducing the costs of the concession process and compliance with the new Public Private Partnership Act. The proposal for a concession law introduces an improvement compared to the existing 2008 regulation in the following areas. A clearer definition of each of the types of concessions, concessions for the economic use of the general goods or other goods, concessions for public works and concessions for public services is given in accordance with the acquis. In addition, concession definitions introduce the notion of operational risk as an integral element of the project contractual relationship and the obligation to assume it by the concessionaires. It will be considered that the concessionary has taken a significant part of the operational risk if it is not guaranteed by the concessionor that it will return the realised investment or the costs arising from the management of the works or services that are the subject of the concession. This reduces the potential for negative fiscal impacts on the budget and increases the additional value of the concession project. Each of the types of concessions mentioned may be granted in each of the areas referred to in Article 5. A law that defines the subject matter of a concession. List of articles of concessions consistent with the Croatian concession system in practice and the European acquis. The change in the current law is a change in the concession system in the area of agricultural land due to the entry into force of the Law on Agricultural Land where there are no more concession institutes, but a category of long-term law is introduced, and a change in concessions in gambling because the Law on Games has ceased the activity under the concession Treaty. In order to achieve a more efficient and transparent process of realising concession investment projects, provisions governing property-legislative relations are introduced, introducing the obligation of the concession provider to resolve investment conditions relating to the project before the start of the tender or to meet with existing conditions all investors who show interest in participating in the competition. Namely, unresolved property-legal relations on real estate that are given in a concession are often an obstacle to the successful implementation of the concession in the Republic of Croatia. The insufficient liability of the concessionor in this respect, the unwillingness to engage the donor in concrete terms, and the launch of the concession procedure without a clean situation leads to the error of potential investors, opens up a potential risk of delaying the project, and withdraws the possibility of a compensation obligation. The law also extends the provisions governing preparatory actions for the award of concessions as an obligation for the grantor. The preparatory actions are the appointment of the expert commission, the establishment of a study of justification for the award of concessions and the production of documentation for competition. The current law regulated a study of justification, concessions and documentation for competition, in general counting on specific regulations and concessions to comply with the general law, to organise their specific issues. In practice, it didn't happen. For this reason, the new Proposal for a Law on concessions is detailed in the composition of the study of eligibility and documentation for competition, which introduces a clear responsibility for the grantor. The competition documentation will also be published in the notice of the intention to grant concessions in the electronic public procurement advertiser. The documentation studies shall be an integral part of the procedure and shall be archived and shall always be available to audit. It also showed the need for a concession provider to elaborate on the content of a justification study, with the indication of the mandatory elements that, in any event, the award of a concession must be processed. For concessions the less value of the new law suggests making so-called. the reduced analysis of concessions and in order to reduce administrative and financial burden on public authorities. In relation to the expert commission, it is noted that the concession provider is obliged to make the same appointment in the award of a concession, allowing this law to appoint one expert commission to grant more concessions, with either concessions for public services or concessions for the economic use of the general or other goods having the same or similar subject matter of the concession. In view of the fact that the concession is one of the models of the public private partnership, and given that the new Law on Public-private Partnership has entered into force, the Law on concessions also takes place to further comply with those two rules. The key news in the concession procedure is the transfer of the concession procedure for public services estimated value equal to or greater than 5 million euros, meaning without VAT on the Public Procurement Act, which is put into the same regime as the public works concessions. The introduction of standard forms thus achieving the uniformity of the appearance and content of all public competitions and the use of electronic public procurement advertisers for all publications, reducing the cost of publication from today's around 5 to 6000 kuna to 800 kuna, and introducing a new level of transparency. It also introduces an exceptional possibility of awarding a concession for economic use on demand, which is limited to certain situations in the award of smaller concessions as an integral part of a larger concession project where the concession is necessary for the reason that it is technologically and functionally linked to the activity of entrepreneurs. An obligation to open tenders is also introduced. In particular, the introduction of provisions in line with best international practice in project financing and development commercial banks policy, which are those governing the possibility of concluding a project financing agreement, means the transfer of concession contracts and publishing rights. It is provisions that introduce significant improvements to the system in relation to investors and financial institutions. The new law proposes to introduce a fully new provision governing changes to the concession contract in accordance with the basic principles of law and acquis, which will allow more efficient project management through their duration and adaptation of the same market conditions. It also implies the possibility to extend the concession contract under certain conditions and to grant new works to concessionaries. Articles 46 to 55 shall be devoted to a concession policy which, apart from the existing system of the Register of concessions, introduces and detailedly regulates and oversees the implementation of concession contracts by the competent establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance. As regards that activity, strict infringement provisions are also prescribed, which are also newspapers in relation to the applicable concession law. Finally, the adoption of this proposal for a concession law will allow for an even more efficient and transparent application of concession instruments in the realisation of public needs and the exploitation of general and other goods, which will reflect the increased entry of private capital, strengthening economic activity, increasing general tax revenues, concession revenues and opening of additional fiscal capacity for other needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15000	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This topic is actually one of the topics within the state property management complex that we have and how we do with what we have. The situation so far in the implementation of concessions has resulted in both excesses and scandals and in the media exposed, mostly because concessionaries did not pay or benefit more from what they received from the concession. This relates primarily to the use of mineral rock raw materials most often where concessionaires have not often held any place, nor the time or quantity they received in the concession because they did not pay the most of the concessions. This could also be resolved without these amendments, i.e. without the new Law on concessions. Another aspect of the current concessions that actually speaks about that we did not understand the role of the state both central and local, and especially local, is giving in concessions of some very profitable utility services such as parking in cities. Some cities have city firms that actually not only fill the budget but also revive it and patch up many holes with this very income, but some cities have given the job a parking lot in the city (a) to private companies that have set a ridiculous concession, as in the case of Karlovac, which I know reliably, (b) year after year to forgive them for paying the concession because there are poor concessionaries coming into business difficulties. How can you get into business difficulties if you rent and charge a parking space in the city is not quite clear to me, but those who come in such difficulty and those who forgive them for paying the concession know it most likely. When he comes into such a great difficulty, which was also the case with a concessionaire in Karlovac, then closes one firm, leaves on it debts and part of the workers and starts another company that starts over. Of course, he hasn't paid a concession or anything else before. However, Croatian Labourists think and are sure that the concession should not be given, it should not be given what can be given to one who manages state public property, which is a central or local state that can do it on his own. The state isn't and can't be a bad master. Thief state is a bad master. The incompetent state is a bad master. But a country that knows what it wants and knows what it does is not a bad master. If a minister thinks the private man is three times more capable of managing the government, it just means that he thinks his neighbor is three times smarter and more capable than he is. Then it's not a bad state, it's a bad minister who thinks so. As a rule, the state has all the instruments that a privateer and does not often manage better than a privateer. If you can't let him thank you, let him say it, gentlemen, I don't know, I can't do it. Maybe you could give it to me in my private management, but like a minister, I definitely don't know. Therefore, what is a profitable state should not give to anyone to manage, should manage it on its own and benefit those whose assets are i.e. Croatian citizens. This is the first reading of this law, so I'm going to look back on some of the aspects of the law that I think I can do better. Or who, possibly, are not in the view of the laborers clearly. Article 5 states that the subject matter of concession may be the use of water and public water services. If it's about exploiting the source of drinking water, I don't think it should be anywhere near this law. It is something that belongs to Croatian citizens and cannot be sold, given, or rented by any law. If it's water distribution, then the situation is a little different. It is a system that needs to be operational and spread in a certain way and concession contracts should actually confirm, write and determine it. Therefore, one who assumes concessions for water distribution would have to commit to keep in a certain way the price at a reasonable level as agreed by the contract and to expand the network. A private concessionary beats very rarely and very hard to have his own interest. Let's look at the situation today, say, with gas concessions. In counties where these companies are owned by cities, municipalities and counties, coverage is 90% or 95% of the county. Prices are reasonable, profits don't come true, but citizens profit from it. In the districts where the private gas distributors took over, maybe 10 or 15% of the population was affected and in urban areas where it is worth it. The network is not expanding further, and concessionaries do not even think about it because it cannot profit from bringing gas to a village of 200 inhabitants and joining 20 residents. It would not be of interest to a private concessionaire, it would be a concessionaire who owned local self-government in the interest and he would do so as it is seen in a mechanism covered by 90% of the territory, i.e. the household was covered by gas or the possibility of being connected to gas. There's no forest here, the woods can't be put in a concession, which is fine. The forests are, as was once said, a people's wealth, a people's treasure and they cannot and should not be given in a concession. Because once they're used, it takes a lot of tens of years to rebuild. When the woods aren't in there, I don't think the water should be in there either, or they should be inside with these fences we talked about. Under point 9 of Article 5, the possibility is opened, in fact, there are now concessions for public roads. Concessions for public roads are a great thing if a concessionary builds them. So if the concessionaire invests his money, we make a nice deal, invests our money, and I don't know 20.30,40,50 years how many deals are going to exploit that road. If we built those roads with our money, so we don't know how to manage them, then the solution is not a concession, then the solution is a different management. Such management that these roads will be able to maintain and repay loans for them. This is what is now planned and announced by giving the highway to concessions, is actually cowardice to the authorities as usual. The government can't pull the cuts where they need to be pulled because it's both specific and special and it's about names, and last names, and people and everything, and then they give up the whole thing and somebody else will take care of it. In Croatian highways and Croatian roads, someone else will decide who will work there, who will not work. The one who takes the concession so I don't get involved. Which is nice, but it's cowardly. Article 10 refers to preparatory actions for the award of concessions. The preparations are described, I think, enough. But there's one thing missing, it doesn't say who's overseeing these preparations. When the preparations are finished, someone should take a look at it. Is that good? It doesn't say here, I think we should write. Article 12 refers to a study of the eligibility of concessions. However, in the case of public service concessions, the rate of less than 5m euros in kuna equivalent is the prerequisite for each job to go to work. There is no study, but another document is adopted in a brief procedure. Well, the good part if not most of the concessions given in Croatia are worth less than 5m euros. 5 million euros is 35 million kuna, 40 million kuna. So, from the feasibility study, practically all concessions are taken out in Croatia, except of course these right for highways and similar things. In Article 19(6), it is likely for the same reason that the concession procedure is not to be carried out by public procurement, but is given directly when the sectoral contracting authority for the performance of activities in the field of various matters and where it is important for the sectoral contracting authority to carry out operations. It is so round and on the corner that it is practically possible to put everything that suits you, so I would ask the Proposer to try to work it out a little bit and give some clearer solutions to the second reading. In accordance with Article 29 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty Therefore, that a general or other good can be given exclusively at the request of an economic operator when it is necessary for him to carry out his duties. Supposedly, he always needs it, because he wouldn't otherwise be looking for those concessions. So this is a parallel system of public procurement, whether this or that system will be applied, obviously, is an arbitration matter, the subject of the opinion of concessionaires in this case of the state, ministry or local administration, whether it will bounce off that it might belong to this category or to that category. I think the same should be more clearly defined in a way that this possibility is definitely limited. Article 43(1) states that the concession may be cancelled if the concessionary has not paid the fee more than twice consecutively or generally unsettledly. I don't know what that means. The law says it's a messy payment. Is it in a bad envelope or don't I know how to write a check, so it's covered in in ink or what it means to pay messy? So if he does not pay within that time limit then the concession is cancelled, point. That messy payment doesn't mean anything. In Article 33(3) of the same interesting definition, the concession fee shall not be agreed in cases where the eligibility study for the award of a concession or a shortened concession analysis finds that it is not economically justified I'm coming down. [[Intruder: Time Honored Representative.]] So what is the concession that is not economically justified, and why would anyone take it at all? I think there are a few more details in this law that should be clarified by second reading, so I'd like to ask the Proposer to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15002	Thank you, too. The HDZ Club's positions will be presented by respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. So there's obviously a technical law ahead of us. One law that should improve what is defined by the existing law, a law that should be harmonised in certain parts of it with EU directives, however, regardless of what the club's position if some of our proposals are accepted, we will support this bill, and later I will talk about these proposals. However, we think that this Law on concessions hides a lot of traps in itself, and when you look at some concession agreements that were made by countries that have a far longer tradition than the Republic of Croatia in giving concessions with concessionaries, then you see that these contracts go to the smallest details for simple reasons to clearly determine the rules of the game and that a concessionary and in the most common form is a state or unit of regional and regional self-government can protect its rights. Because if you don't define the rules of the game clearly by contract, then that contract can be interpreted as anyone will during its use. And what we think of in the club is maybe the lack of this law, no matter what he brings in a lot of positive newspapers, is that a lot of things, the key things under this contract are determined by special laws. Some of these laws have been passed and as much as we have information and I would be glad to be wrong if I didn't, the government has no intention of changing them and some laws have been passed recently and now with these laws or amendments to these laws is harmonized with this Law on concessions, so first of all I think about the Public Procurement Act. And if you look at Article 5 and he's talking about the subject matter of the concession, then you'll see how important it is and how powerful this law is and how much of a positive and negative thing can be achieved with this law. However, I would also like to say that by the time the concession register was established in the Republic of Croatia, practically no one could pass the concession law because he simply did not know what was happening on the ground. If I tell you that we've been doing the concession register for almost 4 years, that many members of the local self-government unit didn't want to deliver contracts so that the register was made and there was not one speech in this Visko home, and even some units of local self-government were called up that were repeated after several calls and warnings did not deliver their concession contracts. However, when we say that at this point in the concession register there are about 14,000 concession agreements of various forms, it clearly states which is a wide area. But what I would like to say on behalf of the HDZ Club and what we believe is not well enough, sufficiently clearly processed, and also for some areas, we believe that we should pass a special law on giving in a concession or even go to a referendum. I mean, first of all, the highway concessions. And we believe that in this law one article should stand that Croatian highways cannot be awarded in a concession unless a special law on giving Croatian highways into concessions for a simple reason, if we have a mining law that defines how and under what conditions everything that belongs to mining can be given in a concession, then we consider that the highways are of even greater economic importance for the Republic of Croatia and certainly should be treated to say with a special law or even if we want to go further to the Croatian citizens to declare whether what they have all been building because we should not forget that Croatian highways have not started to be built for 90 and some years but also that famous loan of '71. for the Zagreb-Split Highway which ended somewhere else. So that's what Croatian citizens were building, and I think at this point we should give them a fundamental right to decide what to do with these highways, and not just put it in Article 5 there somewhere not point 9. that public roads can be put into concessions more than we have two traffic routes that are in concession and we have a third, it's a concession society practically owned by the state. Let us not forget that Bina-Istra is a concession but a concession that is again given under certain conditions and we keep forgetting when we talk about investments that a complete VAT to be paid to Bina-Istra by the state budget by the basis of the concession contract is returned to them and that is already over 300 million kuna in these past years returned to them. Also part of the Zagreb-Macelj Autoway in concession. And finally we have the concession company Autocesta Zagreb-Rijeka is a concession society. So we have some experience here, and from all these experiences of positive and negative us at the club, we think that highways should be treated in one special way. Also a big question, one major questionnaire in the Republic of Croatia, one large questionnaire that may be a brake in one privatisation process, and on the other hand brakes in the development of tourism, which is a concession or concession right on the maritime good and status of tourist land. You know that all tourist companies, hotels that have been converted, camps, have never solved the problem of tourist land. Also, all these very strong hotels that are currently in the government portfolio and which unfortunately record large minuses, their balance sheet is a big negative. Also tomorrow, if we want to solve this problem, we have to solve the problem of the land they are on, and speaking of it, I think the concession is the most appropriate form to solve it. However, this topic is not mentioned here at all, and then the question is that such an important question is so important to us, and we say that tourism is very important to us, then that one such question is practically not specifically highlighted with any article and specifically proposed a solution but only ad hoc, as I say. I'm already in favour of a fortune of mine, and speaking of mines, we need to know that it's all regulated by the Mining Act. It has nothing to do with the concession law. And therefore, if we have any objections to certain fees or anything, then that's the need to change the Mining Act, but I'm saying unfortunately there's nothing to talk about here. And when we talk about the concession law, what I failed to read, and we at the club failed to read in this concession law, which is a recovery in the use of certain natural resources. And the other thing, it's with the concessions of companies that go bankrupt. You have in court practice that the companies that went into bankruptcy have practically sold seines or something else and the one who bought it, bought a concession, which we find unacceptable at the club, because if someone went into bankruptcy means they didn't do a good job. And what's the elemental thing, we need to discuss a new concession tender for that unit, no matter what concession right it was, and not that there's a situation where someone buys something in bankruptcy and continue to exploit practically on the same criteria and conditions as someone maybe 20 or 30 years ago got a concession contract. We said that there are approximately 14,000 contracts in the Register of concessions, contracts concluded by regional, regional self-government units, agreements concluded by the ministries, contracts concluded by certain administrations in certain ministries, and I think that it should be the conclusion of this House when voting this law, that they should make a practical revision of all these contracts and be seen starting with the income of units of local and regional self-government to the state budget, whether these contracts can exist in both plus and minus. It does not necessarily mean that all contracts are underrated, there may be some contracts that were concluded at times when there was great economic growth, when certain activities in Croatia were golden time and golden age, so anything alive could be sold, and in today's conditions when certain economic branches stagnated, perhaps the concession contract could not exist. So you can't look in one direction, you should look at both directions, and that should be the conclusion of this High House if we want to make order in this area that's very important. And the fourth area that we think is very important, and it regulates concessions are water. So, in most cases, we have that water draw concessions have local, municipal companies and they carry out that activity. However, the amendments to the laws should take care of the expansion of the municipal infrastructure by those undertakings which have obtained a concession to carry out certain municipal activities. And you know what the biggest problem is, we want water supply, we want drain, we want gasification. Where there are a large number of consumers, so where it's worth making a master's network and a street network there, everyone's going to create a network, but as soon as it takes to pull a longer highway pipeline, you have a smaller number of consumers, no one wants to do it. Starting with city firms if they don't get a grant from the city budget to the concessionaires no one wants it. And why I'm saying that, so I'm saying it for the simple reason that it's the question that perhaps at the moment the most tangs of Croatian citizens, all those who don't have water, all those who don't have sewers and all those who don't have gas. Because if we changed the law that units of local self-government can no longer practically participate in the construction of a gas network, then the logical thing is to force the concessionaire to do it in a certain way. And why I'm saying that, for the simple reason that a state-owned company that's doing a good job right now is doing a highway pipeline towards Dalmatia. And now if that gas pipeline doesn't get the network, the blood flow in local self-government units, if that gas doesn't reach every house, and the question is whether the concessionaire will be in the interest, then all that money and all that investment can be shown in 3, 4 or 5 years as something unfortunately missed and what will eventually be paid by Croatian citizens again. So that's something to talk about and it's something to think about when it comes to this law and when it's said that it's possible and whether certain municipal activities should be given to private concessionaries or whether it will be better done by public companies. And it doesn't always have to mean that something owned by a state or a unit of regional self-government works badly, and if the private comes, it'll work well. The privateer is the only motive in the whole story that he earns, and if he has to invest big money in infrastructure, then the price of these services will be good and the question is what it will be like. And why I'm saying this, for the simple reason that we've talked the same thing here last week about European Union funds. If at this point the possibility for all units of local regional self-government is opened to withdraw money from European funds for the construction of municipal infrastructure, then the logical thing is that we may consider and consider that certain activities carried out in local self-government units should remain under a cap, perhaps slightly different and stronger control, but under the cap of the units of local self-government. However, we have also given the possibility here, which is good at the end, that all public activities, such as these, can be provided under concession in this country, but the basic question is whether Croatia has enough consumers to use these public services to pay someone. Or whether it's going to happen to us that the existing services that are in most of the cities on a pretty high level are going to fall to a far lower level. And that's something you can't read about this law as a concessionary obligation. It's a good thing we're giving him the right, but that commitment is important. Here, the obligations in this law are listed only at the principle level, so I did say at the beginning that it is very important to look at how concession contracts in those countries that have a far longer experience than we do. So if they saw only in certain Arab countries what concession agreements for oil fields look like then they'd be surprised what perfection these contracts were made in experience from some countries that were there as a colonizer. However, these concession agreements have remained until today, and we here want to simplify everything under cover that we respect the European Union directives. We can respect the European Union's directives, but we should certainly protect what is the wealth of the Republic of Croatia. And in conclusion, on behalf of the club, I think and we will support this law if we agree with the legislator and the parliamentary majority that an article should be incorporated into this law that giving in the concession of highways in the Republic of Croatia should be defined by a special Law on the concession of highways as we once had the Law on the privatisation of INA and HEP, so we have abolished it later or even to consider the possibility of giving, calling a referendum whether we are in favour of giving highways in concession for a simple reason. Thank you very much. [[And time, Mr. Representative.]] I said, if you support this proposal, we'll uphold the law, if we don't, we'll be restrained by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15004	Thank you, too. On behalf of the IDS Club and the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15005	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, representatives of the government. Croatia certainly needs one concession law. The second thing is whether and what Croatia should give in the concession. I also agree with what Mr. Shucker said that everything is simply not possible to give and not to be given in concession. But one thing's always the law. Other political decisions or better put forward opportunities that determine some concession. When we talk about concessions, Croatia certainly has good but there are also disastrously bad examples. It's the same in Istria. Istria, what I know from these great things, may have the most under quotes of these concessions, and there are also good and disastrously bad examples. Since this is the first reading of P.Z.E. etc. We can talk about how in general, so we can talk about the legal solutions themselves, and then go back in some way to these concessions in Istria. First, the Istrian Ipsion, the second "Briani Riviera", the third thing Mr. Shucker was also talking about was tourist land. We have one such situation today that those who use hundreds and hundreds of hectares of camps do not pay anyone a single kuna, but that is why someone who has a table in Dekuman or what I know at a forum in Pula must pay 15 or 20 euros a square meter. The same is true in Sibenik, the same or even more expensive in Dubrovnik, Zadar, etc., Plomin II and the like. Yes, a person can ask himself whether this Law on concessions is being passed for giving in concessions on highways and perhaps not a bad example that this issue should be regulated in some way by a special law. I think that would be something to think about. It is also clear that the next or better said question is whether or not you are going to give the highway in a concession at all. We have two schools, two approaches to the highway concession. They're one and the priors are for, the other are the priors are against it. If I'm not denied, I can at least think and be somewhere between one and the other. It's a different thing, say, that Istrian ipillon. It wasn't 100% clean either, but we did during the time that concession contract from '96. years corrected and somehow accepted the principles afterwards. In order to build an Istrian impyslon, it means... first given by the Učka tunnel, which was built in the 1970s by the self-distribution of the citizens of Istria and the diaries of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia plus annually is given under quotes cca up to 20 million euros I will say out of the budget by forgiving the VAT but also in other ways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But on the other hand, this Buik built 80 km of highways from Pula up to Umag plus 20 km of highway from Kanfanar to Pazin and 10 km of highway whether 8 or 10 don't grab my word from Stancija Pelicetti or Pula down to Pomera. So, neither Buik, despite the fact that Mitterand gave the legion of honor to a high official of the Republic of Croatia, did anything for nothing. But to this day, if nothing else, caps down, they built 100km of highways and what is particularly important, those highways were exclusively built by companies from Istria. It's important to me, and I didn't ask for it once, I was interested, intervened that the sooner Buick continued to build it, and returned thousands of builders from Istria to work. And I want to believe that in the sixth month, this project can continue. However, I dare even point out that, with the resolution of opportunities in one Puris, the continuation of the Istrian Ipsylon is the priority of Istria number one. What I believe in is just as I said there would be a continuation of the construction of the Istrian ipsilon and that the stranger would not break that fee he mentioned, which is 45 km of the highway plus 5.5 kilometers of Učka tunnel equal to 250 million euros, a circus of 2 billion kuna. A bridge called the Pelješki Bridge or Peljesac or 2 thousand 500 meters is somewhere around 4 billion kuna per original version. Now it's supposed to be about two billion kunas. However, the clear south of Croatia should be connected to the queen, they would say today on September 25th, Dubrovnik should avoid the Schengen regime. But maybe one more time you should think about the tunnel, not the bridge if it's three times cheaper. But let's let it go now. Second, let's say Brijuni Riviera. But before I tell you what people tell me from the Croatian Road Society "Via Vitae" and why they say not to put the roads into concessions. And that's why I took this study that I recently received, and then among other things, they say no matter what we know there's a lot of stuff on the highways than they're going to say as much robbery as anywhere, they say next time I'm talking about Croatian highways. Yes, from 2013 to 2016, there will be a loss of 4.7 billion kuna. From 2017 to 2020, we would have some profit of 3 billion kuna, 2013 to 2020, which is, yeah, that some loss, but total would be from '21. until '32. We should have a profit of 48 million kuna. The truth is, in 2001, annuities for highways were 0 kunas, in 2012, they were 33 billion kunas. Our fee fell for almost 30% of the roads, Cacic received short-term loans 5 to 10 years at an interest rate of 2%. ... Huh? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Two percent reportedly, that's what they told me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The usual loan is 30 years and then logically more. Gas has increased twice, but the fee has remained the same, etc. We have about 1250 km of highways and no one, I don't know, or a large number of those that the new roads don't give in the concession, but that the unbuilt shares, the clear question is whether it can bring someone money, give in the concession. When I talk about that second concession in Istria, Brijuni Riviera, the concept of the concession literally collapsed here, or this concept of the right of construction it speaks of, and this law no one relevant wants to report to these competitions or will. I understand that no one will enter low-accumulated tourism for example. for one hotel 50 million euros at 66 or 50 years and then to return the hotel to the state. It just doesn't make sense. They're stock companies, they're listed companies on the stock market, and there's logic that's very different than when I don't know what the state is. It can only go through sales, but only land sales under the hotel. Everything else is unrealistic to expect. Finally, if it were possible to build something on this issue, we would not have received only 15 new hotels in Istria in 22 years from the 1990s, which is 35.40% of Croatian tourism, only 7 new hotels. The third concession in Istria is PLOMIN 2 a.m. Entering an RVE that no longer builds coal thermal power plants anywhere in the world anymore. Today I read that Danko Končar should bring coal to the PLOMIN from South Africa. I knew there was something there right away. Once again I appeal 3 km from PLOMIN passes this gas pipeline, the LNG is coming to Krk soon, at least that's what you're talking about, so let's think about it, gentlemen. As regards the other parties to this bill, it is said among other things that the global economic crisis is worsening the conditions of market financing, etc., but what is certainly important is this Article 5, where concessions can be given for 20 activities, from the field of health, the area of energy, for ports, for public roads, for public transport, in the field of public water services, which is also somewhat delicate not to say dangerously, because water can happen very easily if it happens to us by 100, 200 or not, I do not know how much. Also when we talk about HEP what was built not to put it into concessions. What's here today came to me with one email that's something else when I'm talking about Istria, it's these radios and television stations that have to pay the state concession neatly, but whose programs can't be seen on the west coast of Istria for one Italian I don't know how to tell a television hack that's being played over us. So here he tells me that here it is primarily done in 4 television stations broadcast from Učka, channel RI, RI TV, TV Istria, TV Nova Pula, on several occasions it is unequivocally established by competent state-authorized institutions that in the western coast of Istria due to interference of illegal broadcasters from Italy cannot monitor the program of Croatian TV stations. And nothing, and that's the problem, but it's also a problem for these TVs in Istria, and those 4 TVs are still not seen on the west coast of Istria, and they still have to pay 4 times 17,000 kuna for concessions to the state budget and 4 times 347 thousand kuna for broadcasting to the state-owned company Transmitters and law and service connections that they don't achieve. Over the past two years, a total of 4.2 million kunas. Mr. Linic in Novigrad promised to help these operators or whatever they call it, television. He then suggested that the state be sued, and we see that today is not responding from the competent ministry to I would say legitimate requirements of TV stations in Istria because if I can't offer my product to citizens who will buy ads, who will simply ask for their service? To end what is clearly not built it should be absolutely put into concession, it is not a problem. But what's done, especially when it comes to water supplies and maybe highways, so for God's sake don't sell it, don't give it to the concession. The mistake was also when we were selling banks, it wouldn't be a problem if it had been given to non-sanitary banks, but we first rescheduled them with tens of billions of kuna, and then sold them all together for $5.6 billion, and today it's the assets of these same banks of about 400 billion kuna. It was a mistake to sell both in time and in Telekom, it was a mistake to sell monopolies like DUHAN, INA. A mistake or a great sin was that privatisation, but what we are going to do today is very difficult or almost impossible to get out of. All in all, I want to believe that the Law on concessions for Croatia is necessary, but once again this was built or what was built in the form of a water infrastructure, road or electrical infrastructure or electricity capacity, I don't think it should be given in a concession. If someone wants to come, work, build why not, cap down. Come on, invest. We can't survive without an investment clearly. But what that generation of 20.30 brought out, what I think, and built, should be preserved in the possession of the Republic of Croatia. And then, especially for 60.70 years, it was just like this generation and it was building, and it was creating, it electrocuted the country, it restored after one bloody war, I don't know, industrialized, it gave almost everyone a social apartment, etc. And here's the generation that after that decided to sell, to concessions and so forth. I'm also saying this about 25th of September because today in Istria we mark the Pazi decisions and I thank that honorable generation for everything she's done for this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15006	Thank you very much. We have 3 replicas reported to your presentation, Your Honor. The first replica and respected representative of Martina Dalic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15007	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I would actually like first to express my satisfaction that here IDS from the ruling coalition also supports the HDZ Club's proposal to address highway issues in the concession by special law. Because this is an indisputable matter that is being debated and debated on the basis of aprior attitudes. And that is why we believe that it is precisely a proposal for a special law to be adopted in the House and an excellent opportunity to have one of these important and economical and financial and the subject of our future debates in the Parliament and to decide how, whether, by what method and whether or not to consult citizens. Because as fellow Shuker said, it is a small matter of history, and the Zagreb-Split highway of 71. And all the events that have been happening to this day. But that's even more the question of the future. We will become a member of the European Union. The European Union will probably also change the frequency of transport, perhaps some of the current non-corridors, so I speak primarily of Zagreb-Split's direction in the future will also become European corridors and possibly extend towards Montenegro and Albania. Our ports will be built, they will become European ports. All these are also arguments that show that at this point it is not possible and it is not easy and it is not possible to calculate the value of that concession. Therefore, this subject should be discussed seriously, not based on aprior attitudes, as we see what aprior attitudes bring. Prime Minister Milanovic was apologetic against six months ago, today it is aprior to. This is not an aprior discussion topic, and I am therefore glad that my colleague Cain supports the proposal for a special law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15008	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15009	I can do it again. Yeah, I think a special law really should regulate that matter. Whether someone supports the HDZ Club proposal or not, it's completely irrelevant. But what I support is first of all this Croatian Road Society which assures me that, although Croatia's highways from 2013 to 2016 will operate with 4.7 billion kuna losses from 2017 to 2020, a certain minimum profit will already be realised, and after that, roads could also make significant profits. I find it difficult to present all this information immediately, because I don't have the time simply, but no matter what, but I think that in this matter we should open the debate in due time and do nothing over the knee because it is invested along the Croatian highway, so I dare say almost one Croatian budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15010	Thank you very much. The next replica to your presentation, the esteemed representative, is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15011	Thank you very much. I'm pleased that colleague Cain supported our proposal and I think the other clubs will support it. I think it's been elaborated enough by my colleague Dalic. However, I'd like to say I shouldn't bid here with interest. You know exactly who, how, and when, and under what conditions he was in charge. If we had had a period of higher interest rates and it wasn't anyway that you were in charge of certain projects at institutional banks or you were in debt by issuing bonds. However, let's not think that everything was wonderful and wonderful, look at the end of 2003 when Croatian highways were not in debt because of the large volume of work, so one part of the bonds issued by the Government of the Republic of Croatia were practically transferred to Croatian highways. And it doesn't matter if you had a credit reprogramme in 2006 or if you had it in 2009 when practically no one could be in charge. And you can't expect Croatia's highways to be owed a lot of what the state is in debt for. Therefore, if the state today has an interest rate of around 6.5% depending on who is in charge, don’t expect much debt to be paid to Croatia’s freeways either. And it's not good to bid on things that are transparent, that have been done publicly and no one has ever done under the table. For the simple reason that we can attribute as much as who and what he did but it is certainly the biggest projects in the Republic of Croatia in which all governments and all of them participated. And if it probably wasn't for those highways, we wouldn't be talking about this kind of tourist season today. And that is why we are looking for, in fact, why we are going to suggest that an article be incorporated into this law, which, as this high house, will decide that the debate and giving of Croatian highways in concessions cannot go without a special law, which we will then, of course, discuss here and see what we will do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15012	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Ivan Shuker, representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15013	Shuker said that from 2000 to 2004 or 2003, we took annuities or loans of 2% for 5 to 10 years for highways. I also said that, usually for highways, loans are taken for 30 years and it is understandable that money is incomparably more expensive in that case. The fact is, at the same time in 2000, 2004, the money was much cheaper in 2005 than it is today. As it is true that the state is in debt by 6,375%, it is hard to believe that a public company in the market will come up with money at lower prices. However, it is not a problem for which the government was in debt but the problem is that the money was later worked and how the construction of highways was financed. And there was indeed a lot in that period from 2004 to the end of 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15014	The third replica to the presentation of the respected representative Damir Kajin is a replica of Đura Popijac's respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of Cain's, you mentioned energy facilities more specifically mentioned so many times in Termo Power Plant Plomin where you opened up certain doubts and dilemmas. Of course, there is no doubt that energy projects in Croatia must be built but the question is what, how and with what money. The Plane C, of course, is already in preparation and obviously in the results of the competition, I think it will be one of the major failures and failures and there is no likely concern because this project is obviously not going to happen. In fact, out of the announced 60 or 70 major global energy companies, it has recently been open and opened up to me, it seems to me that only 6 investors have even been reported to be energy companies and none from European countries, so no significant, important or serious energy companies from Europe have submitted their offer to this competition. So companies from China, Korea from Turkey came forward, which doesn't mean that it is and that capital is not welcome. So the big question is actually how is it prepared? Why did he not report to this competition and the owner or co-owner who already exists in Plomino 2 and what in fact drove European energy companies to apply for this contest? So probably the fact that only 500 MW was planned, although today there are already power plants of this type and over 800 MW which are already the issue of the conflict at the end with much less money. So you'll probably... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15016	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15017	He doesn't know these details, I don't know who answered, 28th month we'll find out all the details not only of who took the documentation but whose offers as such met the tender conditions. We've got a gas going three miles from Plomin, I'm really appealing, and this time, please give the gentlemen a definition of gas. Tomorrow or the day after, LNG will be built on Krk, so we can be autonomous on that basis. The coal thermal power plant costs between 800m and 1 billion euros, on gas about 400m euros, electricity produced from coal costs 7.8m euros and from gas 6.2cm. So much for that detail. But what's most important is the pipeline passes by the Plomin itself. Why did RWE give up? I don't know. On many occasions I have spoken to these people but I know that they have decededly sent a message that more coal thermopower plants are not building in Germany or building "on that unfortunate Balkans". The second thing I can also say is that the thermal power plant on coal doesn't just scare me and the higher facts about who's gonna deliver our equipment. I'm reading today that Danko Končar is taking over the coal supply or he's thinking about that option from South Africa to Plomina, so maybe it's pointing to some of the cooled-out games. I know that carbon power plant is a good export business for industry in one Russia, China or somewhere else and that if gas was built, there would certainly be more performers from our neighbouring European countries or one Germany itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15018	Thank you very much. The SDP club of Croatia and respected representative Luka Denon will present the club's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the Ministry. Of course, after three years of applying the Law on concessions, it was necessary to communicate regularly with likely concessionors and concessionaires to make a new law that would probably make all the shortcomings that have proved to be unscheduled during these three years to embody them in a single roof law that would provide answers to all the issues that I believe have taken place in the three years of the Law on concessions. As this law regulates concession rules in a number of related but different areas and how concessions are implemented through three types of concession contracts defined by the law, the practice has shown that the rules currently governing concessions require the introduction of certain newspapers which will, of course, reduce the occurrence of security in the award procedures and the implementation of concession projects and contracts during the duration of the concluded concession contracts. And we have therefore received a roof law which, in general and in a more precise way, solves possible concerns about the award of concession but also about the exploitation of this concessionary concession. The two are newspapers, so it goes by public publication via electronic media when the concession provider reports for the competition. So there are no more People's Newspapers and there's no such thing as not to know, and I think it's also an important form of control and concession policy. That concession register that we have but should be given more importance so that through this concession register which should be publicly available you can see how we behave both as a donor and as concessionaries in this concession. This law also introduces something new but they say it is flexibility and simpler treatment... concessions for the economic use of general or other goods or concessions of less value. This implies that there should then be no full study which is otherwise to be given when concessions are given, a eligibility study of concessions, but then that operational study summary can also be used for faster and simpler concessions. I think it's good news, that it can also be accelerated in giving concessions in some way and that the concessionaire also makes it easier. And the third newspaper that kind of happened in this new law is that a concessionary takes on that operational risk he hasn't had so far. If the concession is not well-read in the competition, it must also take an operational risk through the period of the concession which seems good to me, because in principle I am looking at it through the prism of the local self-government units that give these concessions and thus the concessionary takes a certain risk. Here we heard in this previous debate about this law somehow little things about the law, and more things we've heard about what I think also falls under this law, and that's primarily the need, so I sort of realized, that it's going with a special law on concessioning highways. I realized that since we heard from my right in some previous political public appearances that we shouldn't give freeways in the concession, but here I now realize that, yes, we can still put highways in a concession, but if we have a special law to do so. It does not seem to me to be something great because this is the Law on concessions which also says here that the concession is given in different areas and for different activities, and in particular lists these 20 activities and writes of course for public roads. They're probably highways of the public road, so we seem to have an insistence on a special law on concessioning highways as if we could go to a concessioning highway, and we already have a concession law that's pretty good. Here I see that they also praised this law so probably those criteria for selecting the most favourable offers would also be similar to that in this law, nothing different would happen, so here's what it means. So we've taken off that dilemma whether HDZ has something against concessioning the highway or not, we can see that there isn't. Because then why don't we have a special law to carry out linear and coastal maritime transport, why not in the field of energy a special law, why not for ports. Why would the port of Rijeka or other ports give in concessions without having a special law to do so? So here's what we realize after this is that HDZ is also about that if that happens, it won't be against highways being put in a concession. What is good in this law, some things have been explained and I think that in those last laws that are by segments they will be done, that they will take into account this and that they will be more precise in what this law could not because this is a roof law and therefore is like this and general, and that is that in the case of a concession on land owned by a person who does not participate in the concession procedure, property-legal relations must be settled for that property before it goes into concession. Also, if the Republic of Croatia is the owner of a property that is intended to be awarded a concession very clearly and precisely here, it says that all property-legislative relations must be resolved first and that it is finally known what it is given and under what conditions it is given in a concession. What seems important to me, and here we are somehow seem to be in the local self-government and administration quite inert or we know how to do it in a different way, but here it says very clearly what it must contain is a study of the justification of giving a concession. So, somewhere, this content is treated through some 8 articles, but that means the study must have an operational summary, what we were just talking about, the general part, technical, financial, economic and legal analysis, where necessary an analysis of environmental impact, i.e. nature and related contributions, conclusions and recommendations, that I do not now read all of this. So we have to, first of all, those who grant the concession must say so in time, because in order to avoid all this that colleague Cain had just said that in some ways this concession was being sprayed, and that in the end, it would always cause some suspicion that it was a concessionist, under which conditions it was given a certain concession and at what time. It seems to me that that concession provider who now has the instruments and how to design that confusion, or bad thoughts, when that concession is already given to a particular concessionaire under these conditions to be as small as possible, and for such a thing it should mean that the concession commission, which writes the conditions as the concession is given, must also be professional and, of course, must not be left to itself, because those members of the local self-government units must also be involved in what the concession commission is doing. The criteria which the concession provider makes the most favourable offer, there are also quite a lot of them that are the criteria, so I'm just going to say that maybe we should factor out here is generally. How to explain this now is the highest offered concession fee that is very clear, but I'm afraid that it should not be the only way that a concessionary can be awarded a certain concession, and what it says here under Article 25 is so written excellently, but how it will be able to measure it. It's a little vague for me, so maybe until the second reading you try to see, or through special laws, how measurable it is, without causing suspicion that we've got someone. So he says, the most economically favourable offers from the point of view of the concession provider, the criteria related to the subject of a concession such as quality, which includes technical achievement, aesthetic, innovation, functional and ecological characteristics, operational costs and management costs, economics, service and technical assistance after delivery, date of delivery, etc., etc. So, there are very broad criteria for selecting the most favourable offer and there may be some doubt that through, someone had or had no technical assistance after delivery or ecological property, and he got a concession because among other things and was still the highest offered concession fee, so let's see what is the priority criterion to make it any clearer at the end, and that, not to mention, there are any confusions and tails and doubts as we are always taught to suspect that we always do something with a fig in our pocket. I would also like to ask the representatives of the ministry that these amendments to the concession Treaty which are regulated in Article 35 where the concession contract can be amended, and when it can be changed in particular, so that it is much clearer when and for what time that concession is allowed to change, that it is not the second or fifth day, or that it is not immediately given, that it is being awarded, and that it refers to the disturbance at the beginning of being some kind of deadline somewhere if it happens in a ten-year concession in the fifth, sixth year that something has disrupted that then and that concession can be changed. It is good that this law on concessions is covered in such a wide way, and it seems to me that the weakest point of this law will be what is under legal protection here. I ask you that, just before I talked about the competition, about the criteria, about the offer that this will all be written together but then legal protection Article 44 says that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is responsible for resolving complaints about concession procedures. It seems to me that we know that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has been working for us so far, how it's done so far. It doesn't work well in my own court. It can be subjective and it seems to me that it is something that is not good for the Commission to control the procurement of public complaints, if it complains of another concessionary who has not received a concession, it has the right to influence that complaint. We know how it happens now in public procurement when everyone complains, then everything stands. The appeal is not resolved. The process is being renewed, and that's what we wanted to avoid with this law, which is to be quick, to be efficient, and not that with these elements, we're blocking the action of this law at the speed at which it should be. This is the first reading. It would be good to have these suggestions that we have received from other parties and other clubs and that we can even write our own certain remarks on this law to get as high-quality legislation as possible, so that in this first reading of the SDP club, of course, we will support this law and I believe that not a lot of changes will be experienced in the second reading but only the key ones that will go towards being more operational, faster and simpler, concession law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15020	Thank you, Your Honor. Despite the call for consensus, we have reported four replicas. Let's get this straight. The first is the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In my speech to the club, I said that Croatian Labourists are even opposed to the idea of giving in a concession what we did to our own money, own funds and borrowing. In order to prevent such an innkeeperage of property, we have also reached conclusions in the procedure on the management of state property which are on the agenda in a 70-seat perspective and will be discussed within three to four years. I would suggest to my colleagues in power that they still think of what and how they work with state property and if they are already doing something like that that we are opposed to, at the very least, as we have said in our conclusions, a special law of highways are given in concessions so that we can have an opportunity in this House and before the public to say something about it and to listen to any public that I fear will not be in favor of the solutions that you offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15022	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15023	Well, dear colleague, of course, if you've followed well, I haven't apostrophed any of the representatives of the clubs who have said here that they are for or not giving highways in concessions. I think the law that we're discussing today is good enough for this to come up with and it's a question of giving highways in a concession because I realized that some representatives on behalf of the clubs are asking to make a new law that would be the Law on highways in a concession. This law fully regulates how the concession is given and I don't think there's any need to draft a new law to give the highway to a concession. I somehow understood that no one would mind giving the highways in a concession. But that's what a special law is for, so I don't think a new law is necessary in some way. This one is especially enough if it is done in these other segments where it can then, if we agree to do so and if that need really is and you will give the freeway in a concession as some other countries in Europe give their highways in a concession. Noting, they don't sell in concessions. So it's a concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15024	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's counterpart Denon said in his debate that the position of the Croatian Democratic Community club is surprising, given that on the one hand we are priors against concessioning highways, but that on the other hand we would be for concessioning if a special law were passed. And then you said you didn't see the need for a special law. Then why should there be no such law also in the section relating to public line coastal transport and to concessioning ports and maritime goods. I'll talk about it later in my debate. So, I am for passing special laws. I do not think that a roof concession law with only 62 articles can address the issue of concessioning all possible activities and services that are being concessioned in Croatia. You and I know well that and there is a special Law on public line coastal transport which laws and concessions this type of traffic, that there is a Law on maritime good and seaports which is concentrated in activities in maritime good and port activities in seaports. And such laws will remain even after this law. And as for what you said you were surprised at the position of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I must say that this law would be useful because it would solve the possibility of giving in a concession of those roads that were not built at the moment and for which the construction would probably be welcomed by the concession authority. And instead of financing the construction of public roads from the state budget, such a law could be made possible in a transparent manner, with the Parliament's consent, because it is likely that long-term concessions could allow further construction of road construction in Croatia, in the first section relating to highway construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15026	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15027	I understand, of course, that by analogising how it was settled in those special laws that the ministry representatives here spoke of such as the maritime law where, in some ways, the borders of maritime goods are determined and concessioned on maritime good, but that it should also be so for public roads. But here we taxfully cited what activities we will be able to give concessions for, and among other things, part of what is in the maritime law, and these are ports, and that's line shipping, and that's public roads. I understand that the highways are part of it, that it's ringing in our ear that it is a public road and that this is a good law that has determined how some concession can be given. I also said on behalf of the club when I spoke where it wasn't just responsibility on the one and justified our suspicion that the concessionaire would be the one who, because of us, would be the kind of person we are and the way God gave us, would be inclined to do what we do, so he would benefit the most. There is a report here that the concession provider is responsible in such a way as to arrange as much as possible in the concession. Here he has everything at his disposal, all the tools to protect that the concessionary does not earn too much, that he who gives the concession gets enough and that, of course, those who use these public goods are satisfied. It seems to me that's the way to think when we talk about this new concession law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15028	Thank you very much. The third replica to your presentation is the replica of the respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, a colleague of Denon's with most of your debate we can agree as eventually on behalf of the clubs. However, there are some things where simply some things cannot be compared. Linear transport and other public services cannot be compared to highways from several aspects. First of all, more than 11, 12% of GDP was invested in the highway. Every year, taxpayers charge about a billion and 400 million kunas of those 60 limes per litre of gasoline. And so, you have to give a series of answers to questions before highways go to the concession. However, what I said and in my debate we must understand that the Croatian citizens of the Zagreb-Split highway are more than highways. It was a matter of national pride. All because of those '71 traumas. and many Croats today keep bonds in their closets from '71. when they were paying for all that self-debt and loan for the Zagreb-Split highway, however, a Belgrade-Bar railway was made. And it's a matter of national pride and normal thing that every Croat looks at that road with a different way and a different view than he looks at another mile of road. So, the point is that the HDZ Club, and we will propose an amendment to this law, to pass a special Law on the privatisation of highways for the simple reason that we believe that Croatian citizens in a debate in the Croatian Parliament have the right to know in detail how and under what conditions Croatian highways would be placed in concessions and ultimately what is the position and what political parties it is. And not that once in government I will practically not say out of reach of the public eye, the public will be aware of it but will certainly not be aware as much as it would be to pass the law and to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament. And in the end, it's our club's position and we said that we would support this law if the motionor accepts this provision for the reasons that both the Register of concessions and this first law on which this law is based was finally made by the HDZ government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15030	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica of the respected representative Luke Denone. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15031	It seems to me that we are all somewhere at the beginning of our presentations, and in particular the Deputy Minister, said why after three years we are going to make such a new roof law and somewhere we have all mentioned or read that this law was also important to close one of the chapters in negotiations in the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. So, it is in line with the EU's acquis. I doubt that the new Law on highway concessions will change something different and more important than this Law on concessions that treats public roads. So I repeat that it would be good to read the content of a concession grant study from financial, economic analysis to legal analysis, technical analysis of the study, so the one that gives the concession knows what to give in the concession and under what conditions. That's what it says here. I don't think a new law is going to determine anything other than what it says here for highways. And that's the point I'm talking about. So, it wasn't my debate that the highway in the concession was not, I'm just saying that there's such a possibility that if we agree on these highways under European criteria we can put in a concession and that no special law is required for that. God knows what new ones he won't bring us. Yes, I agree with you that highways have been invested very much these past years. I'm sorry it's not so much invested for ports, too, because it says here it's not equal or slightly less, but it's also much invested in energy. Because it also says here what are the subjects of the concession, what are the areas of the concessions in question and those two things. Unfortunately, we only opted for public roads, and for everything else we didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15032	Thank you very much. And the fourth replica to your presentation of the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15033	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, this is not the first time HDZ and SDP agree well on some essential issues. Especially when public good and public interest should be subordinated to private interest. That's exactly what this is about. Honorable representative Denon wondered what was the weakest thing in this law. I would answer that in that law, the weakest thing is that the law is passed, in fact the law is discussed before the State Property Management Strategy. So that law, we're always masters in discussing fragments before we know what we want, before we have a whole. Croatian Labourers have proposed conclusions on state property management put at the end of the agenda. It would have been good if it had been, was one of the first points of this session and the government had sent what we requested. In the process, a state property management strategy. Croatian Labourists do not share the opinion of either the SDP or the HDZ whether a special law on Croatian highways or the giving of Croatian highways in concessions is required. Croatian Labourists oppose giving highways in concessions especially those built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15034	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15035	Of course I'm sorry that the esteemed colleague of this simple debate over the concession law has somehow understood that it is not the first time that SDP and HDZ agree. As far as I know, the SDP and HDZ disagree deeply on very important issues concerning the improvement and life in the Republic of Croatia. Some big things and important things don't add up. And it seems to me that at this age as long as both HDZ and SDP are on the political scene, it is clearly visible and recognizable. Yeah, we agree on some things we share, so I hope those things should be common to you. And that is primarily the intention, will and desire that through a lot of those laws that we have passed both in the past and in this mandate, about joining the European Union that we have found common language here because it seems to me that it was of interest to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not just for the SDP, not just for HDZ. And we will always agree on such things, which are for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But politically speaking in the Parliament that we do not know which times we agree, I think you or you do not follow the political scene in the Republic of Croatia because the gap between SDP and HDZ policies is so obvious that it seems to me that it is recognizable even at some lower level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15036	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired at 10.41 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. On behalf of the SDSS Club and Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15037	Mr. Vice-President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We at the SDSS Club understand that this proposal of the concession law goes after it to actually achieve three things. The first is to further liberalise the concession procedure for the purpose of introducing and explaining the bill's proposal, say strengthening the investment cycle and generally economic growth. The second is the expansion of areas where both activities and concessions could be granted. And the third is to provide supervision or control of the implementation or implementation of contracts of contracted concessions. And of course it doesn't have to be anything bad. And we, in our motion, in this case of the government, or the ministry, not only do we not doubt it, but we see it as an integral part of a whole set of other laws. And we see it as part of a consistent policy. But we'd like to warn you of a few things. First and foremost, the SDSS's club could support such a law, and I also believe that the other representatives' clubs in this House think so, regardless of what anyone has said so far, and that perhaps the indirect colleague Shucker, which is that, for these three things, for liberalisation, for enlargement and for monitoring, should present a report to the Assembly before on how concession agreements have worked so far. If the Ministry of Finance could have done this in some cases much more ambitious, such as tax collection, then we expect it to do so until the second reading and for the matter of concession. Not only can it be put into review, it can be put into review if it previously submits a report on how the contracts are implemented. So, my colleague Shuker proposed an audit of the contract. There may be reasonable reasons for that. Individual cases say they exist. How difficult it is for me to say such individual cases, I am not an expert in this area, and former Minister Schuker, our fellow representative today, certainly has better insights in this regard. But one full report under the contractual obligation collection system, according to the restraint system and the realisation of the total contractual obligations. About how dead concession contracts are and how much such concession contracts actually choke the lives of units of local self-government and exactly the opposite of what is the intensity of the current proposing, which is to help them have such economic activity. I'll give you an example with water. In the area of very poor, I would almost say the abandoned municipality of Plaški, there is an extremely important source of water on the Dreulja River. The concessionary got a concession years ago, no activity in this respect is available. The municipality suffers only further, the municipality just keeps falling apart, and the wealth these citizens should enjoy with us belongs to a concessionary holding it, I don't know why and I don't know what justification. The same could of course be said of hunting sites throughout Croatia. Especially about hunting grounds in the area of war-suffering where people on the basis of certain privileges have received these concessions. How do they manage these concessions, how do they protect the animal fund, who they give it to under concession and lease? I'd like to know that. I'd like to know, then this bill would have its full credibility. I'm not saying she's gone, but then you'd have what we want to see, and that's that there's a state behind this that will then know how to manage this law with credibility and credibility. So far, that wasn't the case. Here we talked a few months ago about concessions on the exploitation of gravel in rivers, lakes and other places, it would be appropriate to report on this, it would be appropriate to submit a report on how much riverbed protection is being protected, it would be appropriate to submit a report on how much the contract on the volume, on the quantity, on the depth of the procedure for the exploitation of gravel, it would be appropriate to submit a report on how regular concession fees are paid. I am convinced, Mr. Deputy Minister, that you will deliver a message to the Minister and that your ministry will deal with this issue. Because that's the question that falls or passes the entire concession system. And if we fall then that means we repeat the experience of privatisation, if it falls, it means we repeat experiences from which we have not learned anything because giving in a concession has a form of making available to private, business, economic operators for a certain time under conditions that can be defined with it but if these conditions cannot be controlled and if they are not controlled then it is just as uncontrollable as the privatisation case was owned. For this reason, we believe that the submission of this report is of particular importance and we expect the ministry to submit it until the second reading. The other thing I'd like to say is enlargement. This bill stipulates that the concession will be given in the field of health unlike the old law in which the amount of memory has not been provided for me. My colleagues here are discussing highways with the right. Not because highways could not be given in concessions, but because it is necessary and under what conditions and for which money will be spent. That's the question. If we can give water why we can't give the road, why would water be less important, and to whom water is less important as a resource, as food, as a treasure. And we know in which way everything was given, and we know under what conditions everything was given and to whom, of course. I could talk about certain municipalities that only work because they have a water source. There aren't many but there are. Therefore, there is no doubt that the extension of the concession area or activity is an obligation for discussion. For me and us at the SDSS club, it's just as important, which actually means we're expanding the area to health care and health care. We know that the state is struggling, we know that there is no means to maintain an existing health system but we want to know a clear answer in this regard. What this really means is if the space of concession for health services on the one hand or for performing health activities or for investing in a public-private partnership when it comes to hospitals and health institutions. We would like to have answers on this issue, especially because there were vague and grey zones in the area. A fellow Shuker has touched one important issue, which is the issue of units of local self-government and the way in which they manage the possibility of giving in concessions and renting them and their responsibilities to state authorities such as the Ministry of Finance. Our experience speaks, and what Agent Schuker said further confirms this experience, which is that there is also a risk of compromising the concession process in that segment. For this reason, it would be of paramount importance to submit a report on what units of local self-government that are deafened by the obligation to report on how and how they approved concession agreements in accordance with their obligations. If we are often discussing how this or that municipality should be abolished as they are excesses, we are not actually discussing how and how they carry out the activities that the law allows them to do. One of those is this one about the concession. And quite finally, even when it comes to energy and water, and when it comes to municipal activity and construction activity, each of these possible concessions or concession contracts is directly related to environmental protection. And there is no doubt that the process of simplifying the award of concessions, such as the legislator or the proposal here, should not be such as to allow it to be at the expense of environmental protection and environmental conditions in which concessions are to be realised or concession contracts should be realised. We know very well that we are in a situation where we need money and that we need investments, but we also need to know very well, and that's the last thing I'm going to say in this address on behalf of the SDSS club, that some environmental disturbances or irrevocably arise, or that it takes a lot more to resuscitate them than we can estimate at the moment we're squeezed with financial or other reasons. For this reason, Mr. Deputy Minister, we urge you once again to respect the need to liberalise the concession process, but not to refer to environmental and environmental protection conditions. If that is the case, then it will be right to ask the question of what is the purpose or what is the final benefit of granting the concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15038	Thank you, Your Honor. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. He is the first respected representative of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague said very nicely that the state should manage what it has, it does not, but the property of the citizens manages and that it should be reported to the owner, so the citizens what happened to that management. In order for the state to do that, she needs three things she doesn't have. A list of state assets that does not exist is needed, the Croatian state has failed to agree what it has in 20 years, so it will manage if it does not know what it has. We need a management strategy that should be passed by the Parliament as requested, nothing happened. And a management plan is needed, so an operational management plan should be adopted by the government. It is only when these three documents exist that rational government of state property can be discussed at all. Until then, it's an eeny pot roast, so if you hit it by accident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15040	Thank you very much. The next replica is a replica of the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15041	Thank you very much. Dear Pupovac, the replica means a marked disagreement. I have to start by getting along, but I'm going to end up with one request, but I don't have another instrument. This is one of the few draft laws that does not contain any word in the mandatory chapter on the state of the concession policy in Croatia. So, in the assessment of the situation, the government has not written a single sentence about what the situation in the Republic of Croatia is, but is proposing a new law because of the directives, the liberalisation of Europe, the Turks, the Mongols and I don't know what it is, and you're right. I quote the provision from the assessment of the situation: The key instrument, be careful, the concession policy is the Register of concessions as a unique database of all concessions in the Republic of Croatia etc. The Republic of Croatia has the Register of concessions. The government comes before the Parliament without any information. And you're right, in the second reading to discuss this law without detailed information, it's not fair of the government to ask us. And now the application, if we propose that conclusion will be rejected, but you can suggest it as part of the majority, that when we adopt the law in the first reading, all remarks, proposals and opinions will be delivered, it's just a new point. As part of the second reading, the Government must submit a full report on the state of concessions, a concession policy in order to see what this law is for in the first place. Of course, the strategy is the first document, but as already some document such as the Register of concessions we have and the Government is unworthy or boasting or critical about or giving us in the assessment of the situation to see what this law is really about, how it is dominated by municipalities, cities, county and state, with state property, and concessioning is one of the ways of managing state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15042	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15043	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was asked by my colleague Pupovac's debate to present another vision of the Law on concessions and we all forget one thing here, I was here as minister talking about the Register of concessions, but unfortunately I was then declared heretics. Aware of the fact that the Law on concessions and concessions in the Republic of Croatia cannot be regulated unless you have in one place a list of all the contracts and concessions that he has given to this country, no matter what level. Because look, if the local self-government unit gives her a concession, someone has given her some law that was passed in this house, but it does not exclude her from the obligation to submit a report for reasons that concessions are very important in two segments. On the one hand, they should be seen as revenue to the state budget and income to the budget of units of local self-government, and on the other hand, many activities depend on the quality of life of Croatian citizens. Therefore, this law must not be looked at technically, but remember in this House how many times I was a minister I said that some mayors of large cities simply disobeyed five, six calls to deliver all concession contracts. And that's why I did say here on behalf of the club publicly, as I was saying and while I was in power, that simply because of the change and the economic environment, some contracts have to go into review. And in the end, you've touched another topic. We have a contract on concessions to resuscitate certain stations, whether they dig up or something, but we all have sequins and everything where they get away with it, no one thinks about recovery. One day when it is exploited until the end, whoever has won the concession simply won't have anything to resuscitate it, but it is therefore at the rest of the ministry that at some point insists on resuscitating the coast that these areas would tomorrow, since they have been rewarded, here I will take an example of Velika Gorica, Lake Chiče where the depth is in certain places 50 m, is practically 20 or 30 meters deep, and if it is not resuscitated, it will become a bar tomorrow. But those who exploit the gravel tomorrow won't have the money to resuscitate if that resuscitation won't be gradual and to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15044	And the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say that I agree with my colleague Shucker, who is seeking a unique register of concession agreements, and I believe that the ministry will make such a unique concession contract with supervision and control and with the passing of each of the contracts, as I agree with what my colleague Lesar was saying, which is that not only in the form of a request from a pay phone, but also in the form of a conclusion that the ministry should prepare a report on the concession practice so far and what is the situation in that area both financially and regulatoryly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15046	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, two MPs first Igor Cešek, then Boro Grubisic behind each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15047	Thank you very much. Dear chairman, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal for a concession law is one of the few laws that are not included in the emergency parliamentary procedure, and I am glad that it is because the prominent experts in this area will have the opportunity to give their opinions on this proposal, and perhaps some of them will accept. What does the Proposer intend to achieve by this bill? The Proposer notes that this proposal for a concession law introduces solutions that carry a number of flexibility, simpler treatment in the award of concessions for the economic use of general or other goods or concessions of less value. So, the Proposer wants to simplify the concession process itself. Since we are all very well aware of the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, the legal regulations and the administration itself are quite complicated, and the entrepreneur who wants to invest in the launch of his business must first of all go through an increased number of corridors and offices, and through the forest of paperwork in order at all to run his business in a very small number of cases in the end since the start of his own business and quit, especially when it comes to small entrepreneurs who do not have teams of lawyers and experts for each chapter of this complicated administration. This proposal clearly provides for the rights and obligations of concessionors and concessionaires, but the Ministry of Finance is given a stronger role in controlling the payment of concessions, because we are familiar with the ministry's data that the debt of concessionaires towards the state is 214.9 million kuna, which is not insignificant. And the finance minister certainly wants to patch up his budget deficits with this debt, and I am confident that he will do everything he can to charge that debt as soon as possible to show his successful leadership of the ministry. And in this case, it is absolutely irrelevant whether an entrepreneur will go for such a charge to go bankrupt and be forced to shut down his business and, of course, fire his employees. Article 5 of the proposed law states that virtually everything that represents a public good and of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia can be given in concessions except for the Croatian forests but I fear that because of the lack of finance and they end up in concessions, and invaluable forests, for example, of Slavonian oak end up as raw materials for furniture production in Sweden. Furthermore, in its opening statement, the applicant notes that the key instrument of concession policy is the concession register as a single database of all concessions in the Republic of Croatia, which allows for stronger monitoring and supervision of all concessionaries, and thus activities to improve the implementation of the active concession policy. I am convinced and sincerely hope that this register will give the right insight and relevant information about the concessions issued, because for example the answers to the concessions on the economic use of water from the two ministries say that the state does not have the correct information to which it has all given public good. Thus, for example, the Ministry of Agriculture has the information that they have awarded 835 water-use contracts of which 682 are currently in force while the Ministry of Finance, based on its insight into the register, says that 904 concessions for the use of water are awarded, of which 823 are valid. So the data is not the same or the same for two ministries. The fact is that countless times the state has proved to be a bad master and we have to assume that in most cases concessionaires are better managers of concession goods than the state. But we must also not forget those who only unscrupulously destroy public good and only their own interests. In such cases, penalties must be draconian, and the state with all its institutions through inspection and expert supervision shall do everything to prevent such damages because the violation of the eco-system in its own country cannot charge a single penalty, and generations will remember such carelessness. Croatia's entry into the European Union will bring together countless European entrepreneurs who will want to take public good in the concession. The freshest case is with Croatian highways. What are we going to get by giving the highways in a concession and what are we going to lose? Prime Minister Milanovic himself said that we will give highways in concession for 30 years and for this we will get a lot of money to pay off debts and relieve Croatia. But the question arises: Will the concessionaire properly maintain those roads and what is most important to the citizens will they be able to lift the price of the tolls themselves, which are now too high? Will the foreign concessionaire take care of the general interest, will it lead to interest in the general interest of the Republic of Croatia? What about exploiting drinking spring water? Croatia has enough to date for its needs, but forecasts are that in the future and recent wars will be waged not because of oil but because of water. Will we be able to resist the rise of foreign capital on our drinking water sources, thus jeopardizing the survival of future generations because of the repayment of debts that are enormous to us? These are issues that need to be addressed and discussed publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15048	The remaining time will be used by distinguished MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What are Croatian wealth, and what are world wealth? Both are identical, exactly the same. Food, water, energy, forests. What's Croatia got or what's not there? He's got everything. All of this, except for forests which are currently not listed in this list of public goods on the page 5 of page 6, is covered by the possibility of awarding a concession. These are: mineral raw materials, so our mineral wealth – sand, gravel and everything else, stone, then water, then hunting state institutions. So, hunting wealth, maritime good. This 20 points should be listened well to so that citizens also know what the state is giving in the concession and what it offers to those who may want to enter the concession. These are therefore ports, then the area of energy, then public roads, public transport, field of sport, cultural goods, municipal activities, public water services, railways, cableways, waste management, the area of tourism. When you say the area of tourism, it's really a broad term. So, starting with tourist buildings and land that are suitable for tourism development and beyond and the area of health care. I hope that this 20th point area of health is just what has been in the concession so far, those 15 thousand concessions being held in the Ministry of Finance, so the concessions of doctors who have destroyed their homes of health. But there's people working in hospitals that are leased and concessioned. Good someone said here that this Law on concessions smells a little bit or even the other way around, as the Dalmatians would say, of the smell, and of those processes that led to Croatia in that privatisation getting here where it came from. I don't want to be a bad prophet, but there are some elements and even in this text legally that can make you think about it. Here, for example. Article 9 where it says that in paragraph 1 the concession provider is obliged to keep and must not provide information, therefore it is a business secret. So someone has the right to give, this to keep a business secret, and actually it's about a concession giver. In this case, either the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the administrative body of the local self-government giving concession. Here we are these days witnessing that stubbornly by the government and the first without quotes and the "first" with quotes, therefore talking about the job of preparing our highway concessions will be given to some kind of private agency so that she can make it and pay it fat again. As if the ministry, Mr. Assistant Minister, is that right, Deputy Excuse me, does not only know how to create a preparation shop and there is no frame to make and prepare for the assessment of the value of the concession of our highways which are the pride and the deity of Croatia. Because every stranger when he comes to Croatia and travels, so if he comes from, especially from the eastern countries to our seas, he says the roads are great for you. And we went to the World Cup in Poland and Ukraine, so we saw what their roads are like – a disaster compared to ours. So it's not just a concession as a concession money amount, it means something else, it means the life of those parts. So this public good, which is in these 20 points, is public good, so everything in the same basket is recognised, therefore, point 9 for public roads, so the award of concessions for public roads, or as it is nicely called this monetization of Croatian roads, highways. It is also true that in the event of the award of concessions for Croatian highways, but also for the exploitation and exploitation of mineral wealth, there should also be clauses in that concession contract which would also care about the protection of nature, environmental moments, but also about the recovery to say the damages suffered after the exploitation or after the expiry of that concession. After what will occur in nature after the use of that concession. We know exactly what this is all about, mainly in the exploitation of mineral and mineral resources. I also don't understand why, during the previous government, our people are forbidden from exploiting gravel, sand and other minerals, or mines, and at the same time, it's always about the border rivers and areas with Serbia, BiH, so they're neat, and even on our part they exploited the gravel and sand that our people had to go to buy sand and gravel in Brcko, Srbac or via Vojvodina. Very vague, and there was an opportunity to exploit both in the Republic of Croatia and not destroy the environment. That these rivers are actually maintained and that their gauze is deepened in accordance with the Rivers Act, etc., so inland waterways exactly as it is called. In addition, we are already witnessing today that on our coast there are private islands or concessions on our islands. Here I know that people complained that I couldn't take a bath on Big Smoke because a security guard came to him and said he shouldn't bathe here even though the Marine Good Act forbids it. And we know very well who it's about and that the helicopters are landing neatly on Big Smoke, but private faces can't, private people can't come to that island. What are we doing? So what happens to our coast, but also to our Slavonia if we continue like this? In addition, if concessions are already given for highways, so why are they not given in terms, so if the concession agreement is not in terms of monetization, but building and building new kilometres of highways, why is there no concession for the construction of the Danube-Sava channel so that the concessionary uses that channel to build and use it and charge 20, 30 years? Hydro power plants on the Drava near Osijek? And it doesn't, it's not mentioned. Just what I'm about to say, I'm not gonna say not only profitable but it's over, so our highways are built and that's citizens' money. Clearly, the loan is paid by HAC 4 billion is the loan, but all in all credit is paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia through their tax obligations. And then when it is said here that it will be a responsible policy such a responsible policy, and we see concession policy every day starting from a responsible VAT to 25%, responsible electricity prices, responsible heating prices, responsible gas prices that rise every day. We cannot expect such responsibility and such implementation of responsibility in concession contracts from this government. Therefore, the HDSSB is against this legislative proposal for concessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15050	Thank you very much. We have reported three replicas. First honourary representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15051	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, you'd be replicating your colleagues on the subject, this one, so this concession law, especially when it comes to the concessions that are being announced. Of course we all need to be concerned together because concessions on highways, concessions on extraction of gravel, that's a special story to talk about, we really need to be all concerned. So do we really not have the authority and the ability of people in this country to build highways in addition to such pearls, so we are looking for a concession. Where we were able to make the most modern and beautiful tunnels in Europe. So he had tunnels that were declared the best tunnels in Europe, so the Brinja tunnel. We built over 60 km of tunnels, invested 47, almost 50 billion kuna in highways, and now we don't know how to master it. If I don't talk, I'm gonna talk a little bit in my own debate, because I don't have time right now. And when a colleague mentioned a special concession to the extraction of gravel, we are really concerned that we are near Sava, where both Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina regularly, or on a daily basis, have concessionaries who extract sand. And what are they doing? They go in the middle like Fol Sava, and here's a fellow Shuker talking about, therefore, the same old one at Gorica where the depth of the coast is 15 m. Push the hose onto our stuff and draws on our side the gravel. And we've installed it in this corridor of Osijek, Corridor 5C. Strong money gave, heavy customs paid. I agree, I also speak to the previous ones, and I speak to these present ones, so let us gentlemen consider finally giving concessions to the local people, to keep it in Croatia. Well, I guess we all do something together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15052	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15053	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Lucic, our thinking and thinking are similar. Except I don't agree that we don't know how to manage our own. Those who think they don't know to resign. That they do not know how to manage our Croatian highways and that they do not know how to profit from these Croatian highways. Even in your time, though, you weren't there, because you had to paint tunnels two, three times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15054	Second replica, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15055	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Grubisic, if I understand correctly, you commented on Article 5 of the law which determines the subject of the concession as if these areas were very broad. Therefore, I would say that by carefully reading Article 5, he does not define them at all and needs a clear saying that even this law is not the subject of the concession, because Article 1 does not say that this law determines the subject matter of the concession. Article 5 shows this because it says paragraph 1 : "Concession is given in different areas for different activities, and in particular.". So this law lists 20 areas that express particularly means that they can be given for absolutely all areas. By reading further paragraph 3 of this 5th article, only what this law defines! And that's that concession can't be given on forests and forest land.". But then there is a follow-up to that item that says: "And on other well-established special regulations.". Specific regulations can also be sublegal acts, so it is not said by a special law, but by special regulations, which means that it does not know who, when and in what regulation, so whether the Government regulations, whether by some ministries by their rules, whether units of local self-government can then say what concessions cannot be given. We believe that the concessions roof law should indeed establish areas for which the concession can be granted, that is to say, exceptions that the law must determine which areas for which the concession cannot be granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15056	Replicate response by Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15057	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15058	Please turn yourself in so we can hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15059	Here, I'm sorry, I was but someone interrupted me. So, thank you, colleague Lovrin, for saying thank you, fellow Lovrin. You're really an excellent and intelligent lawyer, the lawyer you've noticed, so here's the details. I as a doctor may have seen these things less in the text, but according to what you said yourself, it comes out, that it's a really much wider spectrum, a lot wider area. The wealth found in the Republic of Croatia can also succumb to government decisions and concession agreements than is listed here. In addition, it is obvious that it is convenient in this paragraph 3 of Article 5 with a definition, and in other well-defined specific regulations, the possibilities are indeed, indeed, extended to unsuspecting proportions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15060	And the third replica is the esteemed representative of Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15061	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, in large part, agrees with your discussion, especially when you said the roads meant the life of the region. That one of the most beautiful roads in Europe and what matters most is that they were built with money from Croatian citizens. It would be a sin to give those fine roads in a concession and give some others to manage those roads. What does that mean? That we are not so smart that we can manage these roads, but someone else needs to manage, and on the other hand, to achieve a certain benefit. And what's most important? Putting the road in a concession, what is spoken at 30 years, and a certain authority is in power in one term, whether it is not the same certain sin for 30 years to give to someone managed, and among other things here is about the possibility of changing concession contracts. Even at a time when they can agree to be in a way and covered well. What can happen over a few years and when it comes to the conditions of economic and control of such highways in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15062	In response, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15063	My colleague, first of all, responds to what you said was the mandate of one government for four years, and the concession is planned for 30 years, maybe years. But apparently someone has been thinking about being in power for 30 years, so he thinks that contract will then be as lasting as the behaviour of the government that passed this law. Secondly, there is already a difference between a private concessionaire and the price of a kilometer of highway between a private concessionaire and a state highway. Namely, on the Zagreb-Macelj road with a private concessionary in use, the price of one kilometer of highway is 79 limes to round 80. But on the road Zagreb-Split the price of km of toll I am talking about the toll is 49 lipa or 50 which is an important difference. This will happen very quickly that such prices as on the Zagreb-Macelj road will be on the road if they are to be in concession and on the Zagreb-Split road and on the Lipovac-Zagreb road so on the A3 highway, and in fact it will break back on the citizens who will pay such a toll allegedly according to the increase in inflation. So this government is counting on an inflation increase and a concessionary along with it, which is sad again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15064	Thank you. We will now hear the views of the HNS club and the esteemed representative of Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Sir Deputy with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law on concessions and concessions in general as a topic in the Croatian Parliament this morning, the other day there was a debate on the Law on Investments and Competitiveness, and some speakers with full law found that although the law is positive and what is really a step forward, it will not fully resolve the issue of competition of the Republic of Croatia on the investment market. And this law is extremely important for resolving this issue and is extremely important for the start of the economic process, for hiring investments in everything we lack. During the debate, dilemmas were opened whether or not to concession highways, and then even in the second half, discussions were opened whether or not to concession the general good at all, all that was stated as the subject of possible concessioning, and I will take the right to ask myself in the name of the HNS Club what is the alternative? What is the alternative to giving highways in concessions? Is it possible today's practice of highway management that has produced hundreds of millions of kunas each year of loss symbolized in that famous thing that the Dalmatians would tell me about the tunnel piling in six hands? In my ship's career, I'm not a six-arm wood, let alone concrete. Do we have the right to force the models that make the losses that are ultimately paid by Croatian citizens? When you look at the list of all the activities that are the subject of the concession, then after some consideration you realize that in fact most of the economic activities and possible investments are based on the use of the general good, the provision of public services and the provision of public works. What's the alternative? If we want to invest, we want to create new jobs alternative to the concession as a model is the only sale. How are we going to open new marinas on the Adriatic, in which we are going to create new ports that will provide freight, transport and everything else if we do not have a model that will keep the national wealth owned by Croatian citizens and leave it as a family silver for future generations that come from the most optimal model is concession. And now we can discuss what this new law adopts and improves in the implementation of concessions, in the conclusion of concession agreements in relations between concessions and concessionaries. What has been observed in the past few years, in fact, since the adoption of the previous Law on concessions, is actually a matter that can be said and answered one of the questions raised during previous discussions, as has so far been the concession and master of the closure in Croatia. Not at all. The area of concessions was an area of unsettled management, very poor and messy payment of concessions was not sufficiently clear mechanisms and was not sufficiently defined how and how to implement concessions. Some concessions in the maritime good are given for ridiculous relations. How and under what circumstances I do not want to speculate, because it was not prescribed in the specific Law on Maritime Good and Seaports or in the Law on concessions. Under which conditions and what are the minimum values that must be charged for each concession. There were also no public data who, as well as in what way, subsidise obligations arising from the concession, so let's say that to combat tax indiscipline, apply the mechanism of publication of the taxpayers, and I will dare to note that deura exists the difference between the obligation under the concession agreement but de facto there is no difference. You are in charge of the tax or of the concession you owe to the Republic of Croatia or to its citizens. As one of the suggestions, I therefore leave the legislator of the law to consider that the practice of publishing the accumulated debt on concession agreements is consistent with the practice of tax debt, which would make the debt under the concessions of certain concessionaries hidden by the veil of secrecy. Why wouldn't they know how certain debts were created and who was responsible for them? What I consider to be good in this law and what is one of the first practices observed at least on my part, is that it is also a provision for non-compliance with the law in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia or the concessions Unlike the practice previously observed in this law, it is also prescribed to punish the person responsible by the grantor who would have failed to implement those measures provided for in the law in order to protect the interest of the concession provider. Finally, we also prescribe conjectures for the disorderly performance of public damages. In the Law on concessions there are some things that, based on experience, I dare to predict, can cause certain controversy or problems in the functioning of the concession model. In particular, it is provided for the concession provider to exercise an exemption which would allow for the establishment of concessions. This means, in particular, in the case of the application of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, that in the case of an extension of the maritime good for the establishment of a port of special purpose, the port of nautical tourism, the concession provider undertakes to exercise the authority of the part necessary to establish a nautical port in full. In fact, it is quite clear that the mandatory maritime well-being of 6 metres from the tide line is not sufficient depth of land to establish the port of nautical tourism and in this case the concession provider should rule out and create conditions for the port of nautical tourism to be based on the Law on maritime good and the basis of the Law on concessions to be based. From what means? The concession is foreseen by the concession plan. Who is the concession provider for a particular concession, whether or not it is established. From which funds, from which budget. Ensuring funds that in specific cases can be very large amounts, especially for local self-government units or regional administrations whose budgets are not powerful enough as a powerful state budget. In order to then be divided into thirds and 33, 33, 33, 33, 33 by the basis of the law of the existing and some announcements of the future maritime good law as a special concession law. Does anyone expect, for example, that a mayor will secure funds in his budget, and then, when income income starts, he will go to thirds. So, an open question that I suggest you consider and see how much this bill corresponds with the last law of the legion of specialis, the Law of Maritime Good and Seaports. Another case is the relationship of this law to the Mining Act. The practice so far and the laws so far have predicted that the basis of the mining law should be for those who enter the concession to carry out and produce a series of studies, analysis and to prepare documentation for a local authorisation to enter a concession relationship. These are in some cases research into the beds of mineral raw materials, ore-richness, millions of amounts. They happen at that stage that we call research fields to go later on to call a concession for an exploitation field. This creates a clear legal uncertainty because it is entirely certain that in the second stage when an explosion of the research field is launched on which someone has spent their resources, a concession can be obtained by someone else. The same way can happen that if we separate the investigation and exploitation of the field and if it is not in one concession process, that conditions change in space and that people who have done research and spent money, let's say by changing spatial plans as was the case in Sibenik-Knin County remain short sleeves. Something was an investigative field, people spent money on the basis of approved research concessions, and then someone halftime in the locker room changed the rules of the game and kicked them out of the game, or caused them direct damage, caused damage to the city of Sibenik because we have a project of opening jobs in part of the processing of what is taken out of the exploitation field. So there's a whole series of things to think about. Article 43, the termination of the contract lists why all the concession contract can be terminated. I would personally be happy to write an article that will prescribe when a contract has to be terminated if the damage suffered by the concession provider is unquestionably determined, whether it is the Republic of Croatia, the county or the local self-government unit. What do you say? This law is a step forward because it was completely natural in the 2008 law implementation period to resolve some of the things that appeared as weaknesses. But if it is taken into account that it is a roof law that defines in many ways how specific laws are implemented, such as the Law on Lineway Transport, coastal, such as the Law on Mining, such as the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, then it is clear that there is still plenty of work to be done to clarify some issues. In conclusion, regarding all those discussions that had elements of doubt and skepticism against concessions. Ladies and gentlemen, concessions will always be a very demanding discipline once we make much better laws in the future and special and roof. However, the alternative in the concession model for investment, job creation, and I think that's what we all want in this room, is the only sale of assets, general good to investors and capital. I therefore believe that as responsible people in good faith, we must do everything possible to make this law a diamond and be the subject of a clean, transparent and universally useful position in the role of national goods, and all in order to improve the economy, to invest more intensively and to create jobs because we owe it to our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15066	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15067	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative Petar Baranovic rightly wondered what the alternative to giving highways to concessions was. Is this an alternative to continuing poor management of Croatian highways, Croatian roads. Is the alternative to giving freeways in a painting concession for a fairy-talely high amount of money. Is the alternative the worst highway sale? I don't think it's any of those answers. A fair and capable government is an alternative. A capable and fair administration of Croatian highways. Surely if we give the roads in a concession that the roads will not be managed by aliens. They'll also manage people, capable managers who know how to cash what we don't seem to be able to cash in right now. So, I repeat rescue for Croatian highways capable of government and capable of managing Croatian highways. We should abandon the practice of managing similar public well-being, public well-being should be managed because everyone who does bad work in the principle of a public business when it comes to the private sector is doing very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15068	Second replica, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15069	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd also be replicating my colleague Baranovic. In one part, I agree with him, and often we agree when we talk about maritime good, the importance of seaports, the importance of maritime goods. But I'll talk about it later. Before that, I would say what I disagree with, namely Mr Baranovic said, speaks on behalf of the HNS club and represents the position of the HNS, which is an alternative to concessioning highways in Croatia. I would remind him immediately that it would be good if the HNS had been so credible last year. When we were in public last year, the possibility of concessioning highways was highlighted at the time in the Government of Ms. Kosor we gave up on it and we have the same attitude today, which is that if we talk about the possibility of concessioning highways that we could possibly settle it by law through highways that would eventually go into construction and can talk about their concessioning. The HNS club, i.e. the first vice-president of the government last year, said the HDZ is considering concessioning highways to patch up budget gaps and possibly finance the deficit of the state budget. And as far as maritime goods are concerned, we agree that this law is a roof law. It cannot resolve specificities relating to maritime well-being. As much as I try to grind this bill to make it as diamondy as you've told me, all those specificities relating to maritime well-being can't be solved by this law, and when it comes to maritime well-being, when it comes to seaports, then this law should be left to parent law, to settle concessions on maritime good, because this law cannot solve it. And another thing, therefore, the law resolves counterpart Baranovic's issue of private land expropriation that directly borders maritime well-being when it comes to establishing the borders of the port of nautical tourism, or the port of special purposes. It's settled by an existing law. It is known who must finance this and who, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, must lead this procedure if it has to damage a private person when, for the purposes of establishing maritime good limits, it is necessary to provide the port area in the ports of special purposes with means of extradition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15070	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by a respected representative, Petar Branovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, on the highways. This is not about thinking how, just how to fill the state budget, but how to prevent further losses in the business of Croatian highways and how to create conditions for further investment. Because for me, no matter what I live in Sibenik, the highway Zagreb Dalmatina is not finished. I think you'd probably agree with me as a man from the south. We are responsible enough because we wouldn't be sitting here if we weren't, if we weren't deeply aware that we need a different model of governance and that we can't continue to accumulate losses through the business of state-owned companies that ultimately pay for all Croatian citizens and also the poorest. As far as maritime good is concerned, I agree with you. Yes, there was, of course, a legal framework, a legal procedure prescribed for the extension of maritime goods. However, in view of the duties you had in the executive policy, and I, as the sea people, who have had contact with the problem in practice, know that the practice was very bad and that very, very little maritime goods were authorized in this way and that we were in fact completely in the last 20 years from investment in new marinas except for a few examples which were based in very controversial and problematic conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15072	Third replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15073	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Baranovic, you have repeated your doubts about sales or concessions several times and I say so on several occasions. But in fact, it only proves that you confirm what someone here has already said about the incompetence and management of public enterprises, but also that this government's inability to manage public goods rationally and well. Although there is no register to say the property of the Republic of Croatia, so it is not fully listed but in fact it is indirectly or indirectly however you want to admit exactly that incompetence or as someone said similarity was more important than ability. Namely, if you say investment is the most important and true and I agree with you that investment is the most important, opening public works, public services. So do you think the concession on state highways is exactly that investment? It's not. I don't consider it an investment, but exactly how most citizens, at least what I know about some polls, think it's a sale. Since you keep saying you should run so I keep finding in the media that the state budget is perfectly charged, that our credit rating bad blue boys, pardon BBB plus. So I don't know what this is about. And now we're getting into a situation where we give in to our beautiful highways because we don't know how to run them. Or you don't know how to run those highways to be profitable, to do good business and make a profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15074	In response, MP Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15075	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Grubisic, I must say that you have some misunderstandings about the elemental matter. In fact, we talked about concessions and I talked about concessions as a way and model of putting into operation different categories of wealth as a basis for establishing economic activities. So I'm going to refer to the maritime well-being that we have 5 thousand and 860 km and 7% of the marine good Mediterranean we are the Croats. Do you think that only the state-owned model of state-owned companies should manage this wealth or do we have to leave a concession as a model for private entrepreneurs to be used for a certain fee to start new economic activities? So you don't want a new revolution from the HDSSB, October and nationalisation of all goods, all businesses and all economic activities, do you? ... So I'm talking about concessions, please I didn't get in your word, I'm talking about concessions as a model in which everything remains, I think it must be fundamentally clear to you, everything remains owned by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The concession can be prescribed for 5 years, at 10 years, at 12 years, at 50 years depending on the nature of the activity which is the subject of the concession. The concession is the only model to put into disposition what we really have to offer on the market without being alienated from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the concession as a model should not be attacked but should be encouraged. I wish everything in Croatian history had been concentrated, not sold. The portfolio of state property in Croatia would probably be much richer today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15076	And the last replica, the esteemed Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you spoke to your colleague Baranovic and you advocated absolute transparency and clear concession accounts because it is a national wealth used, general and public good, and I absolutely welcome it. I also doubt you why those who have not paid concession fees have not been announced, this government is promoting as the most effective method of collecting claims and introducing order impeachment to the pillar of shame. I don't know why there weren't those who didn't pay the concession on that tax bonds column, I couldn't agree with you. Because in 2008, a concession law was adopted which was a criterion for EU accession, which was one of the anti-corruption criteria and strategies in which all EU directives were respected and which was then prescribed by the Register of concessions. Therefore, the register has existed so far and could be made very clear to all those who do not pay their concession fees. You're saying that it takes transparency, and that's why I'm asking the Proposer to do this law by the next reading to be really transparent and clear, and not to give in to many sublegal and whatever regulations further regulation, and then we as MPs won't actually know what the law is and what we're voting for. You said it was a good thing that new provisions were introduced. Yeah, they're good infringing provisions to put in order. However, these misdemeanor provisions are not prescribed what you mentioned. For example, a violation for a responsible person in a legal person has been prescribed and here is another inconsistency and inconsistency because this law says that a concession provider may be a Government, it may be the competent authority of a unit of local and regional self-government, but also of any other legal person who, by some special regulation, is the authority of that day. So we don't know which, how they can be anything or anyone. And then if they don't charge a concession fee, they will be, and legal persons, and their responsible persons will be responsible for that for not paying. However, they will not be liable as an anti-corruption asset to employees of state and local self-government bodies unless those bodies charge a concession fee, there are no infringement provisions but only if they do not apply to the Register of concessions. And only a concessionaire who doesn't charge something will be liable for a misdemeanor. Well, if the proposer really wanted to, then that's how he should have written it in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15078	Thank you very much. A colleague, Nikola Vuljanić. Here, I'll give you one explanation. I'm going to give you my word now because I have no reason to stop you from replicating, but I'm asking you to, and all of your other colleagues, hold that tile until we make some eye contact, until we give you a sign that we've noticed you. If you don't hit the table with that tile, we'll make it easier for each other. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15079	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was really waving a tile, I thought your clerk saw me, he nodded at me. But I would not be happy, as counterpart Baranovic said, if Croatia had put everything in concessions, I would not be happy at all. Croatia should give concessions to what the state does not want to deal with. What does it mean to keep the national treasure? No matter what national wealth we have for 40 years, someone else will exploit and benefit from our national wealth? The Croatian state and Croatian citizens will have nothing of it. When these highways were being built, today's Deputy Prime Minister, the then minister, said it was a great form of financing that perfectly covers all possible future costs. Today, this model of financing, which can be returned because in power it is finally, such that it should be given to the highway concession. And the alternative really isn't another tunnel piling. Alternative is fair administration, alternative are experts, not people we trust unconditionally, the alternative is making a list of property, strategy and management plan of state property. When we do, we'll see what we can really do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15080	The replica will be answered by the respected Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15081	Here, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you know the real truth about Croatian highways, but it was very convenient for you to get out of the context of what I was saying, and on the basis of it, you replicate that you would, of course, fail the first vice president of the government who at the time was a resolute minister of road construction. What you forgot to say is that at that time the price of the km of Croatian highways cost 4.5 million euros and that the price of the last and three times the price is higher. The input data at the time and with the management plan as envisaged by the Croatian highways were indeed to be financed from their revenues. However, we all know very well what employment policy has been introduced in the Croatian highways, we all know very well how many Croatian highways have collected from 2003 and 2002 to today. And we all know very well the truth that we do not have this moment of time, we do not have oxygen for this running race, i.e. by the state of Croatian highways in this way. And that in as far as we can achieve favourable concession contracts that would retain both employment and open space to new investments, or more responsible and rational management. Is that we must try to disburse the state budget and Croatian citizens who, for such reasons, were forced to raise that unfortunate VAT to 25%. Let's bring order to the state, and then we can think. And we also have the responsibility and need to reduce the tax burden for Croatian citizens. With this demagogy, I'm afraid we'll never get to that goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15082	Thank you. Meanwhile, the HSU Club also applied for the debate. They will speak to the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15083	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. What should be commended at first, which is best in this story, that this law goes in 2 readings. To enable a wide public debate, this debate can be very helpful in obtaining a quality framework in the Republic of Croatia for giving concessions. Of course, there's a political game going on here, and we can tie ourselves up, whether there's an alternative or no alternative, to concessions. But for me, I never thought of it the way or-or, but-and-and. For me there is room for sale and for a long-term lease, and for concessions, and if you want to be honest and give land to someone who wants to process it and who wants to produce food, and not to import so much food. So there's room for an i-i, not a dilemma or that or there's nothing after that. So, you just need to think, you need to master with your resources. Of course, it is interesting here that the proposaler's intention to shape this as a roof law and that concessions are regulated by special laws, special laws. And I think it's a good way, because just like this law can't cover all the details because each activity has different specificities and different living situations. In that context, I would say my impression that maybe this law, you even took it too much, is proposed for too much ambition, that it really be the one that will limit some things. I think he should be less focused on constraint, and more on regulation, so what's given in the concession, how to carry out the procedure that's pretty well explained, or proposed in law. To this second part of the control, how, as a concessionary manages certain, therefore, certain activities, a particular area given in the concession. And what are the sanctions? It was difficult to correct anything if after 5 years of exploiting a quarry looks far different from what was proposed by the concession grant agreement. After that, you can't fix the condition, because it's a permanently impaired condition. So in that sense, I think even this law has too much ambition to forbid, keep too tight these frames. This would then be better in individual cases, in certain activities, to firmly determine what may or may not be done in that activity. The introduction highlighted the subject of concession and agricultural land. But I have to, it's not, I don't know why it's not a concession. I know it's settled by law at the disposal of agricultural land, but I don't know why you wouldn't be with the permanent ones. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. I don't know why it wouldn't be a concession, because as I said it would be acceptable for the area of agriculture as well. Okay. We also have a situation in law when a decision is made to grant a concession. I believe that paragraph 1 of Article 26 of the Treaty provides a little awkwardly for the decision to grant a concession after the expert commission has examined and assessed the offer to be made by the concession provider. Wait, I guess the concession guy has to decide on some kind of document. Therefore, the expert commission has some obligation to provide a certain record of the review of all these documents of some of its views. Like this, I love it, I know it might mean what I'm saying, but it doesn't say that. Someone can say for formal reasons that we've reviewed the paperwork, everything's fine, and then, freely, the concession giver gives, makes a decision. Of course it says that the decision to grant a concession is an administrative act, but the legal basis interests me, so is that the record of the expert commission? Of course, I expect many more amendments to this law, and in some ways I expect all those who have had problems so far to come forward or intend to report as concessionaries. Given the possible limitations, because I say better is good control than too many legal restrictions. I usually have three bad examples of concessions in this blue folder. One is tied up in Kamenolom Petrola in Raklje, which has been exploited far more than those gauges for which concessions were given and upon the find of the Mining Inspectorate closed. Although there was a beautiful project to reach an excellent closed marina from that quarry. So we have good projects, and then someone oversteps their powers, so there's been irreparable damage by nature, and the project is like that debate. So none of that now has any use, the mining is blocked, the project isn't finished, the recovery isn't completed, so that hole can be seen guaranteed at 10,000 feet the size of the wound on the earth's surface. The second is the case of freshwater fishing. People called this year because of the drought, because the lack of water because simply the concession provider did not show that sensitivity to what is happening, what problems they have in their business. And the third one that shouldn't happen is the Skipper residence in Umag, in Savudrija where there are no concessions but the owner of the golf course issued a permit for investigative operations and drilling wells to exploit the water from underground. And these investigations go to the extent of the draining of a thousand cc's a day in the middle of the season at a time when Istria was on edge to stop supplying drinking water. These things are inadmissible. After all, no one should give someone an investigation that is not authorized. We also have geophysics and other professional institutions that could prepare the terrain and examine it before we give such a single permit to conduct investigative activities. Of course, there was also a historically protected pool that had contact with the sea because otherwise how to justify the life of freshwater eels in that pool. But these are all the damages that are irreparable already in this case, and I think I justifiably point out that these situations should not happen or are not justified by anything, even if decisions to allow drilling are made in such a dry season. You know, it's a little awkward that someone at this place has to stop watering tomatoes to water grass on the golf course. So once again, I repeat, we are interested in this law. The law defines the position and investment policy in many ways. and how we manage our resources, knowing that no country can deal with all activities, but that it must also give specialised individuals and groups of citizens and entrepreneurs to use certain natural resources to create a certain business result for themselves, and that this would also benefit the general good. And it is precisely the whole philosophy of giving in concessions that should be based on what is generally good and what is the profit of that entrepreneur entering such a contract. It seems to me that I've read that you've predicted subconcessions specifically on the maritime good or some variant of the subconcession. I think it's good because it's impossible that everyone specializes in everything, so always a legal entity that's registered for a particular activity can complete its offer by giving a part of the space to design additional activity. Let's say if it's a camp, then it can be given in subconceived extra space for rent I don't know boat, entertainment facilities etc. So in any case, it would be good to settle this with a special law, but if it is resolved by this law, then such cases should be allowed because the simple situation of life is much more than one law can foresee. Here, of course, the HSU Club will support this law in its first reading and will be active in listening to and proposing certain amendments, and in order to achieve the greatest quality of this roof law and I support this story that the promoter has decided on the roof law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15084	Thank you very much. Here you will listen carefully, and first you will hear the replica of the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad my colleague Hrelja mentioned Skipper and Umag. The problem is that, in its Article 29, this proposal of the Law on concessions also proposes that this is precisely the kind of situation, which is that "concessions for the economic use of general or other goods can be granted exclusively at the request of an economic operator if the existing or planned economic activity of an economic operator at a specific location appears with the subject of the concession for which the application is submitted". Skipper has golf courses, he made golf courses and is now according to what is written here in the proposal of this concession, just legalized such a way of working so that in any way he can get to that water to water these golf courses and also at the expense of the citizens of Istria who are at the 2nd degree reduction all summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15086	The esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15087	Dear colleagues, I agree and let it remain but the law should be respected because the law so far has asked for additional concessions or extensions of concessions. However, the resort of a skipper for research and water extraction has not requested a concession and I can show you this document because I have it here in this map. Therefore, of course we need to see what resources are involved and what is generally good and sacred is to draw water if citizens are thirsty and someone is watering grass. So we're all in trouble if there's no water. I fully agree with you here, but I underline the fact that the requirement for the extension of the concession and for the part of the extraction of water resources is not given but was only applied for by investigative actions and, on the basis of that request, it draws 1000 cubic metres per day.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15088	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. Before we move to an individual debate, the word gets to Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's just a very short time to thank you after the club debate for the professional and concrete debate in this part of the area where it has actually proved that the problems may be even bigger than they've actually talked about so far. The intensity is the law and therefore I ask you to concentrate here and in fact that it is a general roof law where we cannot enter individual areas, but here we have seen that even within certain areas, we have said that there are 18 sectoral laws, that there are certain problems and that should certainly be further developed and defined by certain sectoral laws. Here was the assessment that you should submit a report on the assessment of the situation in concessions, I agree with you. I'd just ask you, in 21 years of state, how many times there have been concession reports in this House. I agree that we are going in that section and if you read the law a little more carefully, and Article 46 has just been completed to actually make a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the state of concession. I agree that this part is done, that in fact that part of the report is sent to the Croatian Parliament, we just need to see here what volume this report will actually contain because, as is said here, there are currently some 14000 concessions in the Register of concessions and we need to see how it will actually be a report. In Article 47, it is also further defined that all these concession providers, within what time period should we submit certain information to the Ministry of Finance on this, so that it was said here that there were attempts, rather than that there was actually no such mutual relationship, meant obtaining this complete information. We will for the next time, so when there is another reading we will try to make a brief report, what we can reach through the register, especially the part where we talk about the debt situation in concessions and what are the areas of concessions that are actually the most financially significant for use, not just for the budget itself. What you see in budget fees you see is actually in this part of the first 8 months of concession fees have one trend increase. The question always remains so in the last 10 years is that the total has been paid into the central budget somewhere around 5 billion kuna concession fees. It should also be more detailed to analyse this, however, 14000 contracts should be systematised in such a way that, although some information is being made, by the next time we try to draw up one such report, and as I said in the law, we have taken a step forward and have committed the Ministry, although it is 18 different areas, it is difficult to actually hit all these areas and the importance of it. What's our intensity is actually to introduce transparency into this area. I've heard here that it should also be announced to the debtors in that part of the concession. You saw that, in fact, in the part where we wanted to publish taxpayers, not all of them were for the publication of these taxpayers, but when the effect was shown not only the budgetary effect but also from the citizens' point of view where 85% of the citizens supported such an initiative, means that we actually introduced transparency not only means... , and I certainly agree that in this House of Commons such information was needed and had to be available in this period of independence to this House of Commons, in fact, to discuss them, especially because it is a general good, so that they would gain even more transparency in that part. [[You don't understand.]] This government goes a step further, it will go into that part, it will be an obligation to discuss it once and for a year if we so agree, so wherever we see that transparency will lead to suppression and not only non-payment but also here what you have indicated and some illegal actions that existed, a riot that existed in 20 years in this area of concessions. Certainly, the government's intensities are that this transparency is actually being contained and that we're actually introducing order into this area. So I thank you again for your discussion, which was constructive. We'll respect all your suggestions that are actually possible. Since this is about this roof law, and I hope, in fact, that this law will, as we have done so far, actually get your full support in this House of Commons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15090	Thank you very much, Deputy. We have a replica on this exhibit of yours. Dear Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, it would be quite all right for you to address it, and we MPs would be happy with that part of the sentence where you said you were accepting that counsel's remark and that by the next reading, you'd be delivering data to the MPs by the second reading, but if you hadn't told me if it had ever been said in the past 20 years. So let's stop constantly calling on what's happened over the past 20 years, you promised Croatian citizens something before the elections, so they chose you to be something better and different and do it. I repeat, and it says here that the Law on concessions was adopted in 2008 in accordance with the European Union directives, that it introduced some newspapers, so what we least expect as representatives, and that, in the light of the current situation, it was not good, which was not implemented, what are financial and other effects, and what you are proposing to do with this new law to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15092	The deputy minister will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15093	Just a very short one. So it wasn't an intensity actually to talk about that part of why one part... So the intensity was in a positive sense that we're going to have this area where you've actually said yourself in your entire debate that there may have been certain non-transparentities, that we're going to introduce this part of the report and we're going to discuss it in this House of Commons. [[You don't understand.]] And that's the intensity, so all the data that's actually particularly data that fills the budget and data... that they should be available in this House of Commons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that was an intensity and that's what we're talking about is that it's going to be a step forward in introducing transparency into this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15094	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate now. The first is the honourable representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15095	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. A little while ago, the deputy minister said that one of the government's good moves was also a list of taxpayers. Croatian Labourists also fully agree because they have just proposed in this assembly the list and we are glad that the government has respected the opposition's proposal, at least one of the opposition's proposals. Some speakers used to mention that there's actually anything they can do, anything they can do. Can concession, can subconcession, can sell, can any form of ownership just not state-owned companies that are very legal, legitimate in Western democracy countries, for example, especially Scandinavian countries. Anything is possible except to build order in public enterprises in state-owned enterprises. It's hard to tell people you've come by the political key, people you've robbed or pointed fingers at those who've done it, reported them, initiated trials. It's hard, it's hard to introduce order, and it's the easiest thing to take responsibility off of yourself and say here's all the companies, we're going to give everything in a concession, and we're going to give the whole country a concession. It's best to give it to the Japanese, to the Chinese, to some others to manage and we'll just pick up the rent. You remember well when they used to say that when they rented their coast, they could all retire. Looks like that's what we're gonna do. You have to ask yourself what a concession is, what a form of ownership it is, what a form of relationship it is. In fact, the concession is one form of public private partnership, one of the forms. Concession is certainly not a mere adjustment of the relationship between the concessionor and the concessionee. This law is not a technical law. He's a secret law, but he's a law that produces many consequences that I spoke of in the introduction. Therefore, it is not important, as it was said earlier, just to lay down the rules of the game as someone had just said in his presentation. The important thing is that this concessionary game actually is. It is also about the philosophy of society, business, survival, even if you want Croatia's sovereignty. This law essentially determines society and regulates society, the relationship between society and capital. This law determines not only how to manage state property but also how to determine the future for several generations. Earlier, counterpart Baranovic spoke of retaining property by giving concessions, not giving up anything. We give up nothing but management and use the opportunity to get as much profit as possible not only for the sake of profit itself but for the improvement of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Concessors of those receiving a concession will certainly look only at profits, not the well-being of Croatian citizens. Repeatedly, ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia repeat that the state is a bad master. Some of them also sat in that first third - century government, in the government of Ivica Racan, and then they did not say so. They did not talk about Croatia's highways being awarded in a concession. When the HDZ Government mentioned in public several times, from 2004 to 2010, the granting of highways in concessions, the possibility of giving highways in concessions was then exactly today's first Deputy Prime Minister opposed it. We read you know you don't need to repeat what it means, which would mean giving in a concession of highways. The state is a bad master only in cases where the bad government is, only in cases where the bad government puts the head of state-owned bad managers when it sets up bad managers, when it sets up similar ones, when it sets up party apertures. Then it is. So the problem is governance, the problem is still in something else, and that's whether we're going to admit that by giving the highway to the concession, by giving concessions to the other good, we're going to patch up the gaps in the budget and that's actually the only goal and that's one of the most expensive means to patch up the gaps in the budget. Under good conditions for the concession company are returned to the concession provider. It's a practice in Europe. Under poor conditions, concessions are bought out and it is a practice in Europe. We know well about bad European practice, for example, in the rental of plumbing. Many European cities, the large European cities that gave concession to the water network in these cities, have caused citizens' anger. For what? Because the price of water has jumped several times. Now these European cities have either taken back to the management of that water network or are trying to get back to the management of that water network in order to prevent and devastation of these waternets because concessionaries do not care about maintenance. The concessionaries certainly won't bring water, spread a water net where it's not worth it. In all, the problem of concessions is closely linked to the state's efficiency problem, with the country's governance problem. For example, one of the painful concessions, one kind of concession is a concession on the very public good and these are TV concessions. When did the Electronic Media Council, or the Electronic Media Agency, determine that one of the commercial televisions did not meet the conditions laid down in the concession contract? Instead of taking away the concession temporarily or permanently, we got all the packages and agencies and councils and the Parliament and the whole state from that television. So concessionary is absolutely certain that it is not a rescue for the Croatian state. The rescue for the Croatian state is good governance of public enterprises and order in its legislation and above all, as I said at the very beginning, it is the adoption of a strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15096	Thank you. We will now hear the respected Franjo Lucic who wants to replicate this exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15097	So here I would agree with my colleague Vuksic who said, and I wonder if we should give everything in Croatia in a concession? I was just talking about it myself, and I'm going to do it one more time. Namely, all these natural resources and resources that Croatia has if it really doesn't have, and there are capable people in Croatia who know and can lead companies, and also be concessionaries, I'm really worried about how exactly the colleague said where the first vice president was 2 years ago, 3, so fiercely opposed the Croatian government at the time under the leadership of HDZ as well as in what way he would give, and there were only words so there were no such debates and detailed proposals as this government now gives for Croatian highways if at the same time we know that 50 billion were invested that all the loans that were raised were extremely favourable loans except one that was raised in 2008 by the Bank of Europe... who had a big interest, he could be refinanced, and all the total revenues from the highway can pay off these long-term loans and that's true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why doesn't the government talk about it, but under God's power, it wants to give up our pearl that we built, the most beautiful, safest highways in Croatia to someone else to get 5 billion and to put it in consumption that we'll have nothing and we'll brag about how we kept the deficit at 10 billion, while spending the money on spending, Mr. Deputy. I'm sure that's how it is, and here we are alive and seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15098	We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy. I didn't mean to start a discussion with that, but I think I have to. You know when you want to rent those pedals at sea you have to get concession approval for the use of maritime goods. Do you think that's what the state should be doing? That the state should rent pedals? No, of course not. This is given through a certain concession procedure, a concession authorisation procedure. And the pedal and the highway. But we're not talking about pedals or highways here today. We're talking about the law on fellow concessions. On the law which is a roof regulation, which is a procedural regulation that regulates the way concessions are given, which regulates the matter of all concessions and those in the area of water and those in the field of public roads, etc. When the moment comes, and it can only be after we adopt one of these roof regulations, we will discuss special acts. Today there are 18, tomorrow there may be 19, 20, 25, 30. And, of course, not everyone can be regulated by law because there are some responsible local self-government. So we want to decentralize this country. And what are we doing with this law? This law lays down clear criteria, clear conditions and actions that must be implemented in order to award the concession. So that's how you regulate some very important things. Assessing the value and study of justification. In order to assess whether something should be given in the concession before giving the concession and whether citizens will benefit from it, to assess how much the cost of the concession is, not to crash like a boredom into some concessions. Yeah, we're not talking about highways today, but we're talking about a regulation that's gonna make it possible to even assess whether these highways should be put into concession tomorrow or not? Furthermore, this regulation regulates other things, regulates the issue of the termination of the concession, in my opinion in a very good way. The possibility of ending the concession shall be regulated where the public interest so requires. And this law gives the possibility to each concession provider when it is estimated to be in the public interest to break up a particular concession contract. What are you talking about, buddy? So nothing is given here for centuries, and as counterpart Baranovic said very correctly with this concession, the matter remains owned by the Republic of Croatia, the local self-government units and all citizens of this country. Furthermore, they mentioned colleagues that this law does not regulate the issue of supervision. It is not true, we have, above all, a professional commission that must participate in the concession process and which has very important supervisory roles. Finally, the supervision of the Ministry of Finance is being introduced which will control whether concessions are being charged and which will then be sanctioned by God, i.e. to initiate proceedings and against those grantors who, unfortunately, have been a common case for certain concessionaries to charge for each war, and have certain played so well in the bottom drawer that they do not have to pay for anything. I hope that under this Law on concessions will develop and the system so that tomorrow would not happen as in the case of a marina in Pula to pay 10 times the concession of any other maritime good in the Republic of Croatia. But, okay. That's what I'd like to point out in this law that I consider very good and quality, but I still have some observations about it. In particular, in Article 1(2), I think that, before listing certain concessions, it should indicate that concessions within the meaning of this law can only be so as to have a very clear indication that it is a numberus concession clause and that there cannot be others. Furthermore, in Article 13 of which we are talking about a study of justification in addition to an analysis of environmental impacts, i.e. nature, I think that cultural goods should be added. Because I believe that in certain cases when a concession is granted, such as near Pula Arena, Dubrovnik Walls, etc. It was necessary to carry out an analysis of the impact on cultural goods that would have such a concession. Furthermore, Article 15 refers to the concession relationship with the Public-private Partnership Act that we recently adopted in this House. Although it is two laws that are quite complementary to each other, I think that between this proposal that we have here today and the Law on Public-private Partnership, there is a certain discrepancy. Since Article 13 provides that the private selection process of a private partner is to be implemented in accordance with the rules governing the concession procedure, and then here in Article 15(3) and (4), we return to the application of the Public-private Partnership Act. So we came in some way into an infinite loop that we could decide here to clearly determine that the application of the concession law is primarily, and that the provisions of the Law on Public-private Partnership should also apply. And finally, Article 45, that article bears the name of arbitration, but in that article we regulate much more than arbitration. This article regulates all ways of resolving disputes of which arbitration is only one and, in my opinion, given the number of concessions, a very rare way to resolve disputes. So that title should either be deleted above the article, or it should be prescribed that the dispute is settled, and then, firstly, it clearly states in the first paragraph that there is an exclusive jurisdiction of the Croatian judiciary, i.e. Croatian arbitration to resolve all concession disputes. Because it is inadmissible to settle disputes on our concessions beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia under any conditions and at any time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15100	Thank you. We have reported three replicas. First respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grbin compared pedals and highways and really should not compare pedals and highways, or Croatian water or similar things. The Croatian state must, of course, have a concession institute, but concessions must be given for what the state cannot for various reasons do not want to work. Concessions should not be given where the Croatian State would be able to perform these tasks on its own if it functions normally, as arranged states do. This is the roof law of fellow I said. That's also true, we'll get some specific lex specialis, some special laws. This is roof law, roof covers but also protects. The roof law should also protect the fundamental interests of Croatian citizens, so that no one takes their highway for 30.40.50 years, so as not to take their roads, not to take their water and stuff. The under-law should also protect local self-government from abuse, so that certain utility services that are profitable, I have set an example of parking, give private concessions, and the city could benefit and live from that. Property and real rights also involve using, exploiting property. What is the benefit of Croatian citizens if their roads are, if their water is theirs, if they are their parking lot, and someone else is benefiting from it? This is at least for the 30.40 years that the concession lasts, not the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. No one can explain to me any legal constraint that it doesn't stand. It's not mine, it's someone else's benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15102	Thank you very much. The esteemed Peja Grbin will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15103	Thank you. Well, my colleague didn't compare pedals and highways, I just said something that's a fact. This, as a roof, regulates the matter that includes pedals, but also highways. And that's where I stand. And that's why, and the deputy spoke very clearly of it, we are also passing after this law a whole series of other regulations that further regulate it. Some will bring parliament, some will bring government, some will bring counties, and some will bring cities. And a colleague of this law protects, protects, protects, both the interests of local self-government and the interests of Croatian citizens. And that's exactly what I was talking about when I pointed out the mechanisms that need to be done before joining the concession. And that is to assess, assess which model of concession and whether to apply the concession at all. Whether to approach this procedure at all and access only if it is of interest to the community and to the citizens. So that stands the thesis, which is that this is a good law, that this is a useful law and that it will prevent abuses that we all know have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15104	The respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic will also replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned the termination of the contract when, of course, it's in the public interest and the simple termination of the talking contract, I mean Article 43(1). But I'd like to mention here an absolute example when it's put into service, when it works, and when we don't have a concession, we don't actually have a valid concession. It also brings great, high profitability. It is of course a Dubrovnik cable company, once owned by a tourist agency Atlas, after which a private company, a private company that manages. The cable company was restored, it was put on the market in 2010, but there is no concession, there is no valid concession and now let's look at how much money is missing in the state budget that I don't speak in local budgets. Today we have heard, concessions are actually demanding disciplines and this law today is a roof law and cannot solve these specificities that I state. Here I am glad that you mentioned Dubrovnik Walls, or concessions that are related to cultural goods, and I hope that now, finally, such concessions will be placed in the legal frameworks. But we return to the cableway, which is a panoramic cable, which is unique, where actually all the visitors of the cableway used enjoy the beauty of Dubrovnik. And that I actually earn from the view, but all municipal and other costs go to the expense of local budgets. I hope that special regulations, as announced in this law, will define specific regulations that units of local self-government will be awarded concessions on the cableway and that compensation goes to local budgets. I'm sorry it hasn't been done so far because we could get a penny like this now, but I expect a lot from the cable bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15106	The replica will be answered by the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15107	This is precisely the law, and Article 5(1) of the 17th paragraph, requires that the concession be given among other things and for the area of cableways. What does that mean? The special regulation governing the area of cableways will impose sanctions on those who use such cableway without concession or without payment for it. That's inadmissible. But unfortunately, the example you set for the cablemen isn't the only one. We have hundreds of other examples of gravel extraction and beyond. And in each of these specific regulations, we must prescribe that such treatment will be punishable and that sanctions will be imposed on it, and that the competent authorities are then required to act accordingly, prohibit such behaviour and sanction those responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15108	We'll hear the third line of the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am pleased that my colleague Grbin mentioned Article 13 and the eligibility studio when giving the concession, so I would just like to point out to the promoter that, in addition to this, it may be possible to analyse the environmental impact or nature and what his colleague Grbin has proposed to influence cultural goods also in certain projects to add to the health impact situation. I'm not talking about what projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15110	Thank you very much. We have time to hear one individual debate if there isn't a replica we'll end up right, if it does, then we'll extend a little bit. Dear Representative Boris Blazekovic, not in the hall, is losing the right to discuss this item of the agenda. Dear Representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15111	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The stories of concessions are always interesting and are the subject of today's numerous and judicial proceedings, as well as of everyday policies and also of public interest. In the past 20 years, any attempt to put in general the purpose of both the service and the individual and the state has caused these discussions to the public, since the privatisation of HT, INA, as its own monopolies and concessions, and to today's stories on the privatisation of Croatia's insurance, Croatian Post Bank, tomorrow HEP, Croatian Waters, Croatian Forests, etc. Concessions are a large part of the work of local and regional self-government units, but certainly a large part of their income. For all that exist in general, the concession procedure and the clear application of certain rules are required. It's precisely in this process and lies the essence of concessioning. This law is a roof and has been adopted from state to regional and local self-government to public enterprises. Can abuse occur in that system? There may also be numerous examples of this. This law applies strict public procurement rules and in some ways complicates the procedures of the award so far and forces all other public administration bodies to coordinate and bring new sublegal and legal acts. The problem with this law is that in one part it obviously cannot apply to existing concessions, and we have heard here today that there are nearly 14,000 such concessions in the register of concessions run by the Ministry of Finance, whether it is water concessions, oil, maritime goods, taxi services, intra-health care concessions, etc. The data that I came up with clearly shows that the annual state is killing about 740 million kunas but they also say that those entrepreneurs who received the concession remained in debt almost 215 million kunas of unpaid fees and concessions granted to them. This law does not solve that is the basic problem. We have a debt build-up apparently from year to year. Obviously, I'm saying that out of these 14 thousand concession contracts in the register, it's not possible to send each of these contracts into the current administration system. Let us take 300 working days as long as there are no state administration and the number of employees working on such a system, the fact is that almost 50 to 70 items have to be carried out daily so that they can even trace the money and fees paid or not paid in terms of the legality or purpose of such concession contracts. Of these 14 thousand contracts, the state has broken all 700, which is one large minority compared to what is used. So we can have the perfect law that we've been listening to almost all morning and the bad application of it. The result, then, is a poor concession or approval which then comes and is misused. We have in today's system to say a lot of such examples. I will look back at a few of them in my debate to realize that this law as a roof law cannot resolve certain concession procedures and that other laws that we need to comply with are much more important to us, I say, and the HDZ Club said it would support it but under certain conditions. You'll remember here for the last two years one important concession one story, coming from the Primorje-Gorski County that's the story of the Rijeka Markets. The city of Rijeka gave this long-standing concession that it had and let's say a judicial epilogue, it came to the State's Attorney's Office which for almost two years was investigating what happened in that concession process and ended up with an amazing sentence by a state lawyer who wrote in a rejection of the application that a city official but not that concessionist who got that concession was obliged to know the area that was being concessioned. It's a terrible question that this law does not resolve, this concession law. So he wasn't obliged to know the area that was being concessioned. Of course, that story had its own political part and everything else, but it ended with a sad explanation that it was not the task of the concessionor or the one receiving the concession. We have a different story or more stories on the marine side. The story is from Mali Lošinj where one port administration sets up a concession, in 2000 a man takes a concession, means renting, berthing and boating, ten years renting it, creating a business of his own, reporting for the competition, someone else recording that economic part or business, everyone is interested. That man loses his right to that concession, his firm runs out of work. It's not protected, someone else is coming to his place, in this case it was a state through port administration or county through port administration so the case was solved in an interesting way, but the fact is that an economic someone was damaged. That's the man who started this business and worked it for 10 years. 20 people worked there, and in 2011, they were out of a job. This law doesn't solve it. Today we have an example of the Queen's shipyard that is in bankruptcy. This government sent him into bankruptcy, 400 layoffs, people went home, with severances, they did, but he's a bankruptcy company. Today we have a problem that this company in bankruptcy cannot receive a monthly 200 thousand kuna or a year 2.5 million kuna compensation for that part of the maritime goods they use. And there are stakeholders, there are companies who want to do certain activities there, but this law does not allow it. It only allows financial institutions to collect from a particular section that is interesting to them. Those who want to produce, who want to work in the area where this shipyard is shut down, are not allowed by this law, and this company is in bankruptcy without 2.5 million kuna per year. And I think it's time to enter into this law the concept of transferable concessions, a transferable concession as part of a possible continuation of one job or business, but then it's not just a financial house that wants to be charged only in its part. Maybe less important, but there's no reluctance to note. We have a system of communal economy and concessioning chimney services. Look at the absurd. You, today here comes winter, the chimneys need to go to the field, they've passed the procedure neatly, they've won the concession. You will come to the house, of course the season is heating, many will in this winter be heated on the cheapest energy, and it is still a tree, there will be more and more of them due to all these announcements of special heating and those people who come to the field, anyone who is the user can refuse his service because he claims that he can do it and do better himself. A few laws are not respected, especially the part that solves a part of security and, of course, that man who gets a concession he can't do his job because the user claims that he can do it himself and better without it. With no income at that point, it's just a concessionary, everyone else can do it. I too have a very important question, a question of tourist land. I believe that this is a question that the state should have raised in this year, but here's our introduction Mr. Shucker was saying something in that part, but the figures are clear. We all expected nearly 300 million kunas, and local self-government but also the state in its part of that priceless wealth because the proceedings were initiated. Today, we have requests from as many as 75 camps that want to pay compensation for tourist land, but all we care about for a year and a half on this issue is nothing happens, and 22 million square meters of state land, not to mention those 100 million that are owned by local self-government units. The big revenues from that part simply stayed in almost... The year and the previous unaccounted for, and it is almost 300 million kuna a year, and it is not clear to anyone why, because in these 14000 contracts you will not find any of those precisely in terms of tourist land, and there have been moves by this government towards local self-government where their incomes have been taken away. [[You don't understand.]] I think the tourist land at least on the coast was good enough for at least a part of it to return to that segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15112	Thank you, too. We have a single replica reported. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Boric spoke about the fact that the law can really be good, that the law can regulate the entire area of concessions per particular activity, but that it is very important how and how the concessionr acts, and that you have cited several examples that have recently been happening in the Republic of Croatia in which the concession law does not comply, although the concession law is quite clear. So here I am in this list of examples that you have set yet to add an example relating to, although it is not the Law on concessions, but it still solves concessions for public line coastal maritime transport. According to the Law on Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport, the concession provider is the Agency for Line Coastal Maritime Transport, which calls for a concession in public line coastal maritime transport, i.e. the integration of the island. It is incomprehensible that a government that owns our duties when it comes to the Public Line Coastal Maritime Transport Agency may change the terms of the tenders in half the duration of the concession. For example, for one island, 10 return trips per day are prescribed, on the basis of such conditions, by the concession authority i.e. The shipowner makes an offer, he is determined by the subsidy that the government will now change the basic conditions of the concession in half of the concession, and then clearly the president tells us at the current morning that there will be no suspension of the island lines, but will be significantly reduced or reduced. It's all the same to us whether the line will break or fall significantly. He did not retain the level of services in the transport connection of the island as originally imagined when the tender was called and when he was selected and the concessionary, therefore suffers both the concessionary and the recipient of the services, are at the moment isolated.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15114	Thank you very much. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15115	Thank you very much. Well, here I agree with you in the part where Mr. Bacic talked about public line coastal transport, but we here today have had a lot of steps in front of clubs that all when we talk about concessions were strictly highways and possible announcements that these highways will also be concessioned or as they say in monetization. However, one fact has been missed here and I want to mention it here because I think it's very important. For this counselling, it is amazing that the government is devoting 80 million kunas to advise the government on how and how to concession the problem. That's half the tourism ministry's budget, half the budget. These are the amounts that are simply in these times when we're talking about saving incredible. 80 million kuna and then it comes down to some sort of fee that's zero point I don't know five percent possible to get. Why didn't the government say it was going to be zero point zero five percent, so it's going to be eight million kuna. I mean, 80 million kunas just for counseling and that firm that last year had a million kuna revenue of some activity, intellectual activity. So this government can say as it pleases, depending on what appears at a given moment as a topic. I think this fee is too big and it's really when we talk about saving that on one side here we're trying to scare people and talk about thousands of layoffs, and on the other side there's a bag opening and you're saying take as much of it as you want. It just costs so much, we set it up, so now whoever likes to pick up or go ahead, and then I say gets a job firm with a few employees and millions of kuna incomes. What's this about? Whether it's an interest in public good and whether it's the government's rational behavior at these times when we're talking about concessioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15116	Thank you, too. It's 13 o'clock and 33 minutes. All the conditions have been met for me to announce my break. The first is the honourable representative Franjo Lucic. At 3 p.m., we'll proceed. Good for everyone!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15117	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. In an individual debate, Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15118	Since we're so numerous in the assembly here with relief I'll talk. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice President here today we really heard about concessions and good and bad things in today's debate, and I'm sure these concessions that have been issued by some concessionaries are doing well, others are not doing well, and others are not doing well at all. Of course, it is the task of every government if it gives a concession that it must indeed be studied, every concessionary who comes to carry out a certain activity. But we are witnesses, especially us, mayors who come from local self-government, regional witnesses, that we are having problems with certain concessions, and where the government has provided certain concessions that have proved to be not good. Of course, today I want to say a few words not only about these concessions that have already been issued but also about everything that this current government led to the Kukurik coalition wants to give to future concessionaries. Of course, here is the impression that the current government simply wants all the natural mineral resources that we have to give in the concession and I even have the feeling that it wants to get rid of it because, as the first Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Cacic says, we don't know about being lords in state-owned public enterprises, we don't know how to manage the property that's in state property. I'm sure, and I wouldn't agree with that if that were true. The point is, and today there were speeches about it and colleagues were saying that it mattered what the government is, who commands and who runs public and state-owned enterprises, and I'm sure that in such a context we can find people, and we have extremely high-quality and smart people today who can coordinate public and state-owned enterprises, and also that in the part where the state should be a concessionary in any case, it should also be managed well. The easiest thing to do is to say that the state is a bad master and that we don't know how to master it, and at the same time, it might be harder to find people, but the easiest thing to say is, let's give it to the concession. We remember that we gave the concession, I repeat, to those concessionaries who today do not perform their duty as a concessionaire well, that we have sold at the same time to companies, and in particular I would mention only some large companies dating back to the government in 2001 when the SDP with its coalition made up the government and we also sold Pliva, the then SDP with its coalition made a decision to sell Pliva, to sell INA 25 plus 1 shares in 2001. So we've already given the owner who came to INA the opportunity to become, that is, the boss, and nowadays with these 48, 49% shares and the absolute master of our golden coke INA which is here as we see these days is recording and the decline in the sales of derivatives and profits and everything else. Because, of course, calculations for the purchase of raw materials are done in another country where all the price difference remains, and where we are dosed with the dropper that remaining part of the profit that belongs to the INA alone. Then a big mistake was already made by selling INA 25 plus 1 shares. Will today, respected colleagues and colleagues, also through concessions or selling also those houses and those companies that are doing business, be brought back to the situation that we will sell our properties, that we will sell companies under quotes to say that they are not doing well today? Why don't we ask them why they're not doing business? Do we know how to rule these companies, whether we have people who can run these companies, and in the best possible way we show how and how we chose people to take over certain companies where there were no criteria, where people were chosen without experience, without knowledge, without profession. And of course the question is, are we bad masters? On the other hand, it says here in Article 13, the content of the study of eligibility of concessions. The eligibility study of the concession consists in particular of the operational summary of the general part of the technical, financial, economic and legal analysis. So I'm asking a question, and all of our mouths are talking about how, we're not saying it here, especially not the people in the opposition, but the head of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, and so we're going to give the Kukurik coalition that's talking to all the bells and saying that the treasure we have, and these are the Croatian highways, we're going to give it to the concession. So is this pearl of Croatian road construction built on the best possible basis and we have today the best quality roads not only in Croatia but also in Europe, are we going to invest more than 50 billion or about 50 billion kuna in road construction, so are we going to give it to the concession and say that we are bad masters and that we do not know about these same roads? Today the revenues of the highway are at position A3, 70% of the revenue is from that direction, all other revenues remain. My colleagues and colleagues today, the government says they have to sell it because of large debt and unfavourable loans, which is not true. Croatian highways, disengaging ARZ. The ARZ is really in trouble because they were taking loans and borrowing themselves in one inadmissible way where the killings broke all the limits, we're not talking about them. I am talking exclusively about Croatian highways that have so far been in debt on the world market with government approval and where they were never allowed to borrow more of that amount than they can repay over a number of years. The best indicator is that Croatian highways were not in the government budget of the Republic of Croatia, I only speak back 4.5 years or more because they were independent. And this is exactly an indication that Croatian highways can function independently. There's not a single loan, or we have one loan from the American bank GP Morgan, where we took a loan in 2008 at unfavourable interest rates in 2009. Because at the time there was a global and economic crisis, and you are aware that there was no specific option to choose from which banks we would take a more favourable loan, but at that point the funds were needed to complete certain projects. All those loans like I just said were able to come back. What does this government want? Through the concession model sold or given in the concession of the Croatian highway, the means to win. In this time certainly will not get what they are planning, these minimum funds will be spent in consumption, while at the same time the deficit that will certainly happen through health care, through all those ministries where the limits have already been broken will also reduce, i.e. to resell dues by selling Croatia's real estate insurance, Croatian mail. And that way, the public gets advertised, shows that they're wizards and that the deficit from 15 billion to 10 billion, while at the same time selling state property and rescheduling certain budget dubiouss. And that's what they're going to say is that the deficit is at 10 billion. I ask the question, what are these children we need to keep in Croatia and who will be sitting in this Parliament tomorrow, how will we explain it to them? That the SDP's government in 2001, and in particular in this term, gave everything in the concession And on unfavourable terms, which is the worst she's ever sold to a state-owned asset that's gone to a non-refundable place. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15119	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one was Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Lucic with this last part of your presentation. It's true what the future will be, it's predictable. But with that first piece you were talking about privatising INA when it was 2001. The SDP government, therefore, sold 25% of the shares plus 1 or what Mr. Kulst would say 26% of the shares. So, I wouldn't exactly agree with that because your HDZ government sold another 25 and what little it was, so that MOL would get a majority package and we know which channels, how it went, and the court is being held for it. Furthermore, you know that a commission has been established to investigate the role of the former prime minister in the sale of shares of INA where SDP and HDZ have achieved a drawback. The commission was much expected of it, and "The grassy hills were born of a mouse.". That's what he agreed with the SDP. And as for Pliva, we remember Veron and Pliva, right? Well, let me just remind you that there is a Verona, Pliva, too, because it's in close connection with the sale of Pliva. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15121	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15122	Well, my colleague Grubisic, I didn't say that the government, under the auspices of HDZ, didn't sell certain shares, but I'm saying something else. If someone starts selling, someone resources especially such or natural resources. We don't know which government will come tomorrow. This one's gonna sell 25+1 today, right? Tomorrow some of yours will come, and ours will sell another 10.15, so here's 48 and 49. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not the one who said it was only one side. But in 2001, the SDP government started with coalition partners. Also now begins the sale, it will sell out state property now in recent times. I ask you the next government when it comes, how will it solve the deficits? What? Well, we have nothing to sell anymore. And look, these woods that are standing here today under the tents must not be touched by anyone, so tomorrow it will first come to the turn where that tent will be removed and where the same tavern, in one way or another. That's what I'm talking about, and that's the problem. So today we must be responsible here and politicians, and as businessmen. But it seems that individuals are simple, and our colleague here today was saying, fellow Shucker on behalf of the club that we will support this law, if we are future concessions, and this is primarily highways done in another way not to go in this form as it has so far gone. But the question is whether it will be accepted. None of these existing politicians want to hear it because they think they're the smartest, that they've come to god-days, that since they were born they've been learning about roads and concessions, and as if nobody here knows it except the people who are currently in the leading places and in the government, and in the resolution ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15123	Thank you. Next replica, Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, buddy. It's a microphone, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15124	Thank you. ... I'm on. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15125	It's on now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15126	So why is it such a public change about public enterprises not being good? Why do they do negative business? Well, I don't think that's because 9 months of government of the Kukuriku coalition, and new managers in these companies that have been on duty for 6 or 7 months. It's hard to find people, of course, that it's hard to find people to take responsibility for the management of public enterprises as much as their predecessors who were, and for which you know very well who they are, there's practically no public firm where there's no court case against the directors of these public companies, and of course that's the problem right now. As for concessions, we judge in advance something we don't even know how it's going to end. So if there won't be a favourable offer, then if the government doesn't achieve the price she planned in that part, probably not even concessions as such will be. And as for the sale of public enterprises, counterpart Grubisic also said that 25+1 Pliva shares are not the same as permanent negotiations and allowing MOL to manage practically INA without having a half majority stake. You have to admit it's not the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15127	Thank you. We're still arguing with the debate. ... A colleague or you haven't called. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think you have a tile. I'm sorry, I didn't see. ... No, no, I followed closely... for the first time raised your hand I tolerated it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, but trust me, you haven't raised your hand. There'll be an opportunity. Further for individual debate Branko Bačić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here we heard from the applicants during the morning and in the debate that the Law on concessions is a roof law that regulates the basic principles and basic provisions of the concession procedure either public works, or services, or the economic use of the general good. And that's right. On behalf of the club, Mr Shuker said what kind of access HDZ is and I would only add a few elements of importance to me that must contain the general law, a roof law so that, later on, when this Parliament adopts special laws, it would not be an obstacle to the realization of concessioning activities that are being dealt with by a special law. In fact, the fact is that if the general law defines individual institutes during the concession that new laws that must comply with this general roof law are not possible to resolve certain provisions that are important, crucial, specific to the activity we are talking about. I will, in that sense, look to the maritime well-being, to the concessioning of the maritime goods. It would be good to say this right away in the introduction I know that in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the creation of the Law on Maritime Good, and it would be good for this law, as well as for the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, which is largely in the function of using maritime goods, and thus also for concessioning to refer to the Law on concessions to the second reading before we discuss the Law on the Sea Good in the first reading, because I would also like to say the Law on Maritime Goods and the Law on concessions. What is established by this roof law, and then cannot be regulated by a specific Law on the Sea Good, is, for example, a provision under which the concessionr may grant only one concession in his notice of award. This is good for, for example, concessions that solve large projects, large areas, which require certain services, etc., but when we talk about maritime good we have cases where practically one procedure solves 220 concessionaires. The example is Maloston Bay, which is concentrated with 220 concessionaires dealing with shell farming. They are almost conducting an identical procedure based on the same Environmental Impact Study for the entire Maloston Bay and now the Resort Ministry or concession provider should seek for each individual field all the documentation that is identical to all. Therefore, it should be possible to allow this law that the concessionor does not have to, when it includes a hundred concessionaires each of them to prescribe an identical procedure, an identical study, identical documentation, and indeed it does not make sense, so this should enable the roof law not to be a single intention to grant a concession only for one concession, so that, according to that notice, a larger number of concessionaires can be included. And when I mention the Maloston Bay, then I will use this opportunity to mention that the proposal for an interstate border agreement between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, which these days is very much the focus of the Croatian public if the contract were to be accepted in the signed form, would make several concessionaries now ending in Maloston Bay practical and whose concessions the Government of the Republic of Croatia would practically have put those fields which were concentrated several years ago under the BiH equator and would have been subject to the contract if they ratified it would have been practically part of the Sea of the Maloston Bay and the Small Sea that belonged to BiH. Furthermore, I think we need to define this law, allow for better quality provisions that determine the Institute of extension of concessions, that is very important. It is, in fact, the fact that when a maritime good is concentrated that, as a rule, concessions for the use of maritime goods are given alongside land directly bordering maritime goods, which is generally almost 100% owned by a natural person. And it is quite clear that this maritime well-being bordered by private land can only be used by the person who owns that land that is based on maritime well-being. When a concession is given once, when a concession officer gets a concession then it is almost impossible for anyone else to get a concession on maritime well-being because that maritime well does not mean anything to him in itself. This is when it comes to hotels, when it comes to restaurants, when it comes to smaller shipyards because that part of the land belongs to a natural person who performs the activities of such a shipbuilding activity and no one else in front of that land can carry out that activity on a maritime good, so no one else can get a concession other than him. So it would be good to allow the Connecting Law to respect this fact that, through the extension of the concession, it is clear to be a conscious concessioner that no one but him can use that land. Furthermore, the law says that it is not possible to give under concession, i.e. it is very unclear for me to regulate the sub-concessors in this law, and I will give you an example. For example, in the ports of nautical tourism, ACI is a concessionist of 21 ports of nautical tourism. Almost every nautical port has a gas station owned by INA or has a trafostation, and now according to this law, it turns out that ACI would have to carry out its fuel sales activity, so that it would have to be a power distributor as easily as possible. Therefore, we must make it perfectly clear to this roof law that, in specific cases, a concessionaire can give a concessionary clearly with the consent of the concessionor. Here, this bill does not make it clear, it is not well worked out, and indeed such problems exist that in the ports of nautical tourism, in other ports, there must be no port of nautical tourism, there may be a port open for public transport, that the Commission's powers practically should this law be transferred to carry out an activity for which they have no experience or are registered, neither know nor know, nor have the opportunity to provide them with a service which this law, if this is defined as an imposition. Since here is the HDZ Club supported, conditional support to the law I would only add to that, so if we have dozens of laws of the law which define the areas of concession giving, if we allow the law to be passed for, I would not say such important things, little less important than giving in the concession of Croatian highways, then it seems perfectly normal for the Government to accept this amendment and propose one article itself that would allow the granting of highways in concessions, i.e. concessioning large infrastructure facilities, that it must pass the procedure in the Croatian Assembly and that, for each of such individual cases, a special law is passed. Because I say, if we have a regulated issue of maritime goods by the Law on the Sea, if there is a concession of agricultural land regulated by the Law on Agricultural Land, if we have a regulated issue of concessioning tourist land with the Law on Tourism Land, then I really don't see any reason not to prescribe that concessioning of large infrastructure objects which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia should not be dealt with by a special law. It seems perfectly logical, justified, normal, and I think that by the next reading, the government should accept this proposal to resolve the concession of highways through a law that would go through the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15129	Thank you. We have four replicas. The first person to answer was Đuro Popiè. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned the problem of the shipyard concession. So it is clear and known that shipyards, large shipyards are owners of concessions precisely for that activity for which they have long received concessions. It's an interesting example of the Queen you sent into bankruptcy, in my opinion completely unnecessary, especially at the wrong time. So the Queen Shipyard was sent into bankruptcy before the delivery of two large ships for which they would have included over $60 million. And we are now reading that the Committee of Believers wants, of course, to give this space to previous suppliers and cooperatives and allegedly state attorneys, since it is not according to the Law on concessions, it cannot do so. What's next is likely to be liquidated. So that's how, and you brag about having resolved the issue of shipbuilding, you'll solve the issues of shipbuilding. So, bankruptcy and liquidation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15131	We have an answer. Here you go, Comrade Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15132	Yes, I agree with my colleague, Popiè, that there was an opportunity for the Queen's problem to be resolved in another way, not to run, but more than possible to find a way, through the space of the Queen which covers almost entirely the maritime well-being, I think that there was also a single competition in its own time, to retain the activity that is closely tied to the sea, through the competition was for the technical center of nautical tourism, for smaller shipyards that can perform remont yachts, smaller ships, etc., etc. Therefore, through the regulation of maritime goods in the Kingdom which had clean property and legal relations was resolved it was easier than in other shipyards, almost greater than Split, such as Trogir, although Trogir was approximately at the level of the Queen, it was possible to resolve the issue of continuing work perhaps not as many employees as it is in the Kingdom today, as it was in the Kingdom when the bankruptcy was opened, but it was possible to continue through this process of re-use, but still clearly closely related to the shipbuilding activity to find ways to continue the business of the Queen. The more it is for this very reason, the more it is impossible for the Kingdom’s property and equipment to be put into a function that would again provide certain funds for the cost of bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15133	Thank you. Next replica, Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15134	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I wanted to repeat what my colleague Bačić said, so the club has been very conditionalally saying that it supports this bill in the first reading because we keep on the one hand that concessions are and should be the possibility of new investment, because in this sense it is good and should be supported by this law, but as it says, what the President of the Croatian Parliament has received and received the answer, i.e. co-chairing that I do not repeat, that for certain large objects it should be regulated by a special law. So the club gave conditional consent to this bill in the first reading. However, what counterpart Bacic said is that the institute of extension of the concession is not defined. We have had a lot of cases, namely some, as we know, highways were built according to the concession model and I think they were well built and built, I mean here on the Istrian Ipsion which has been built on this model since the beginning and on the Zagreb-Macelj highway. At times, there was a situation where these concessionaires who have a concession contract and who work and who manage these highways might want to invest in an additional quality or something like that when it comes to that highway section that is already in the concession, and the law so far did not allow the extension of the concession by referring to what counterpart Bačić said, I think it would be good to make it clear that the possibility for the existing concessionaries to have the possibility and extensions of the concession clearly under the conditions agreed with the government. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15135	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here you go. I agree with my colleague, Calmet. Therefore, where a concessionary carries out the activity in accordance with a contract where the concession agreement is regulated in any way necessary to ensure that the roof law and these specific laws should be allowed when the concession provider is fully satisfied and that the concessionor is properly fulfilling that obligation which he has made by means of the contract that he should be given. And it is true that, in that sense, as you yourself said, it is conditional consent to this law. Namely, I come from a county that has not a centimeter of highway, not a centimeter of highway, and I don't see how close the future will begin to build a highway from Ploč towards Dubrovnik. I don't see any reason why it couldn't be on this trail that Calmeta said was built on the principle of the Istrian Ipsilon and that part of the road. Therefore, it is another additional proof that it was good to regulate such a single law, to go into construction, further building highways in the Republic of Croatia that could be financed by private financing of investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15137	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, here's a colleague of the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15138	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, perhaps this special law on large public goods as you say, for example, our road to pass a special law on concessions for public roads may not be necessary for, especially for the ruling majority. They don't call it a concession but a monetization, and maybe that's what solved the problem, so the monetization of public roads. And the word monetization is already saying everything. So, just as Mr. Lucic was saying where this monetization was going and how this monetization would be used. Instead of perhaps exactly what it was necessary to continue building highways further south of Vrgorca, Ploča pa Pelješki bridge etc. This would be the right use if the concession was granted then it would indeed be used for the right purpose. But I can tell you that, you said that there are public goods and businesses of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. Here, recently, the company of special interest for the Republic of Croatia Đuro Djakovic said it bought a very fallen Ingra. But soon, the Ingra that was playing around and playing and where the guarantees are given to some small banks or banks could be said and where the money is, some money in that transaction and who, whose account they ended up in, will be exposed. Djuro Djakovic Holding is a company of special interest for the Republic of Croatia. Soon we will announce what this is really about and what the game is between Ingra and Holding Đura Djakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15139	Thank you. We have a colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Grubisic, so you can see this story about the government's proposal to give the highways in a concession shows quite picturesque how they are to us, how one rhetoric is to us when we are in opposition and another when we are in power. That's what I said earlier in the morning. So, when the former government considered the possibility and accession of concessioning highways in Croatia, then the current first vice president welcomed the knife and said that HDZ, since it is not able to manage public enterprises, cannot manage Croatian highways and then sell them on the one hand to free them, and on the other hand to patch up the gaps in the state budget to make it easier to finance the deficit of the state budget. Now to show that it's not a salto mortal now it's the same procedure that needs to be called monetization. So, not by giving concessions, not by picking up one-time funds, and at a large amount, we're just going to find this, we're going to find a nice way, a convenient expression of monetization, so whatever it means.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15141	Thank you. And the last replica, Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15142	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'm going to touch on, too, is my colleague Bacic's exposure. So, I absolutely agree with the words and I wonder again, we're always talking people, people and people. Now you said just before she said she didn't know how to run public companies. Look, this current government has been in power for a few months. Such cardinal mistakes from choosing people who are not adequate to run these jobs at all. Here's your latest HAC case. Look, CEO of HAC, his brother is the maintenance director there, and no less, I don't know how much 2.2% of the alcohol and the man doesn't even have a driver's license and drives an official car. And look, you're respecting the way HDZ did stupid things. I don't want to go now because I don't have time to make any mistakes from the appointment of deputy ministers, assistants, this criminal application, the one under investigation of these, those. Well, my people, in such a short time period of time, so many mistakes, and amputated to the Croatian democratic community said you didn't know how to set people up. And I've got the latest case in Požega-Slavonski, I'm not in my county to mention because I don't have the time for people to be chosen. Please, don't, don't talk to demagogue all the time and name people who have absolutely nothing to do with work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15143	Thank you. We don't have an answer. Next to discuss Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, obviously, it's become modern with us in Croatia, changing names and changing names, so it's not a concession, it's a monetization, but I just hope that we'll have to pass some law on it to understand what it's all about. Usually when we pass a law, we need to have a reason. Either the law isn't as good as we'd like or we need to bring it in line with the European Union. This law that we have on the table today is part of the harmonisation, but one part here are the changes that are very important as such. I'd like to believe that at the Ministry of Finance you know very well how we stand with concessions, which with concessions is not right, and that's exactly what your knowledge is the result of this new concession bill today on our benches. But it would be more than desirable and good if we Assembly representatives had also gotten this kind of knowledge under this law so that we could see what this should change and why. I do not agree with what is said here in the House today that this is the roof law on concessions and that we do not need to talk about the problems that are in the field, these problems should be talked about precisely because we are learning about mistakes or that we could possibly do better in the future than what we are doing now so inappropriately, which we are unfairly criticising. As much as we talk about highway concessions, then it's okay to talk about these highways in one way and try to pull some data. The Banski Court assures us in continuity that by giving highways to a concession of highways they will not collect but that the price of tolls will only be changed because of compliance with inflation, however, the economic account does not go in any way in favour of these claims. The private concessionaire who will take over 1050km of Croatian highways will not only raise tolls on the first occasion but will fire a certain part of the workers. If we compare the business of HAC and Autoceste Rijeka-Zagreb with the business of two private concessionaries currently operating in Croatia, which are BINA Istria and Autocesta Zagreb-Macelj we see disproportionateness in the number of employees. HAC employs 3,22 workers per km, Autocesta Rijeka-Zagreb 4,09, Autocesta Zagreb-Macelj 2.53, and BINA ISTRA 1.7 workers per km. The information he's certainly telling us and that he senses that employees are likely to get fired. As for the price difference in toll prices on highways controlled by a private concessionary, however, they are far more expensive. So on HAC highways and the Rijeka-Zagreb highways for example, you can cross 217 km, but on the highways managed by BINA ISTRA, that amount will only be enough for 196 km. The worst you will pass on the Zagreb-Macelj Highway where you can travel only 125 km for 100 kuna. As for Ucka tunnel, the tunnel is 28 kuna, and it was, so from 15 kuna it went to 28 kuna. It is that the Istrian Ipsylon was built into which some 650m euros of boredom were spent. The plan is to spend another 300 million, according to BINA Director Istria. However, the fact is that the state does not receive VAT at the expense of the tunnel and even the fact is that the state is still paying for the contract we have with BINA ISTRA. These are the data we need to take into account each concession. And when you say we're going to have information on concessions here in the Assembly on the second reading then it's not enough to have them in the Parliament alone, that information has to be public. All citizens must know about these data in what way concessions are shared and how many units of local self-government from individual concessions and get into the municipal budget. And it's not true that with concessions only once misjudged, we have a fresh example in Istria where for 10 square meters of maritime goods less than a month ago a fee of 1190 kn was charged, and imagine on those 10 square meters, it cost as many as 20,000 visitors. These are things that the Ministry of Finance should take care of. When we say that the state is a bad master, the state does not master, master of men. Why is that? Perhaps we can even imagine in this proposal of the Law on concessions. I really don't understand why legal persons with special rules authorised to grant concessions for one and pay the same offence ten times more than those paid by the authorities that concluded the concession agreement? If we charge a certain offence, if that offence is punishable, then I really don't see any reason why certain entities that contract a concession for the same offence would be inappropriately different? I think that even here in article 56 until the second reading of the law, you might be able to look at and coordinate a little bit here that at least those infringement provisions for the same offense are equal to all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15145	Thank you, too. We have a replica, colleague Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15146	Dear counterpart Tyrelli, one of your predecessors said that there was a salto mortal about the highway, but a salto of morality took place. Who will take 1050 km of highways in concession if the state concessionary determines the level of the toll, if we determine how these highways will be maintained and if we determine how many workers will be employed in the maintenance of the highway, means in the highways themselves? We know that the toll will be more kudikamo than it is today, which shows practice in Croatia as well, and I fully agree with you on the same offense should provide for the same punishment in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15147	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy. My colleague Grubisic's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15148	Excuse me, that's the first time. My colleagues, Nancy Tyrelli, agree with you as a whole, and what you have specifically highlighted is therefore the public's conclusion and implementation of the concession contract, so that politicians say transparency. So that we all knew when there was a report, exactly in local self-government and also at the state level, who gave the concession, how much it amounts to, etc. However, in this law, Article 9(1) reads nicely: "That the concession provider is obliged to keep and must not give insight, so neither do we have the information from the documentation of the economic operators that these economic operators have, so those who receive the concession, and in accordance with specific regulations, marked the business secret.". So, whoever gets a concession can mark what the one who gives the concession can, which must be kept as a secret and can be published. Therefore, it is obvious that we are quite limited in the matter of the public of work, in terms of the ability to see both the public of the concession contract and the implementation of the concession contract, this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15149	Thank you. Next up for debate Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15150	Thank you very much. Here I am, these laborers they keep me. A news story almost a year ago, in the summer of last year, she said that the former government minister was in, and I won't speak on purpose, although he might be recognized, he was in Washington. In talks with the U.S. government and the ministry, I guess, he talked about how perhaps Croatian waters would go in a concession, so that America would be interested in using water, Croatian waters, clearly in terms of concession. The news was only cast out at one point, after which it was very soon no longer there, or repeated in the next days, but some were to say, both associations and organizations did react. And I'm not the only one who's heard the news. I've heard a lot of others. So there was a big public alert about Croatia being led as a national national national wealth of the state of Croatia, we know that it is 5 by the wealth of water in Europe and in a high place and by the wealth of the preservation of drinking water in the world. So, there was a big halabuca that didn't happen and it didn't happen, thank God it didn't happen. Today, already in second place in Article 5, when it comes to concessions, here are the waters already in second place ready for concession contracts and exploitation. Maybe we here, maybe someone here can call us soul-care professionals for Croatian resources, Croatian wealth. And I've said this before, so food, water, forests, a healthy country, and energy, when you mentioned INA and energy. Croatia gets its own oil somewhere more than 40% from its sources, gas more than 60%, but unfortunately that's what's been mixing you both from the SDP and those from HDZ gone forever, we'll see it forever, in the hands of MOL. And we got rid of it, so there's no worries at all. Neither does HT nor telecommunications. So, the Germans make good money, they have profit here, but we didn't do it like we knew how to manage it then, so we gave Deutsche Telekom to manage it and get it out of the Republic of Croatia. That's how it's gonna be with the rest of the concessions. Now, this concession for roads, the Croatian highway, is liked to be called, ruling to call it monetization, although it is a very ugly term. Because it's quite clear what it means, we all know that the coin is money, so that means cashing in Croatian highways. Where funds will go from cashing, here's a nice Croatian word, see I could as the late Ladan learns into the encyclopaedia, cashing in Croatian highways. So where these money will go, so clearly if you cut 2% of the budget for health care, then another 2%, and then there's a 5 billion kuna hole, here's this 2.3 million, 2.3 billion of Croatian highways will go to that end. So there's a spilling from hollow to empty. Now, perhaps Croatia's forests for which it says in its saying, as said in Article 3 of this proposal: "Concession cannot be given on forests and forest land.". But it happens, the days are in Croatia, even in some private properties, forests. We also have sunny forests, in Slavonia, beautiful sun oak forests. We all know what this is about. But if the government calls instead of concession on the woods, it calls for the monetization of Croatian forests, maybe it goes away, because it's not giving a concession and it's monetization. Then, according to the established special regulations prescribed by the Government and even by the regulation, we may also come to the fact that Croatian forests are being monetized. It is seven years, to say the embargo for the sale of state agricultural land, by entering the European Union and another 3 years in negotiations. However, we all know that even today, foreigners come into possession of Croatian agricultural land, state land. Here is an example from the municipality of Sibinj, which sells state agricultural land, buys one company from Požega, and buys the company 300 hectares of land. So, this company from Požega buys state agricultural land, and after 7 days of buying and certified purchase contract, Mercator from Slovenia buys the Požeška firm. And so Mercator comes into possession of agricultural land in the municipal Sibinj in Slavonski Brod. Such machinations, which are recorded and particularly in the privatisation, I fear them. I'm afraid of this concession law because we are quite, as who, very inclined to play those laws that are in good faith and in good faith are passed. Therefore, this fear and this request for caution and maximum, concise and clear statement of all items in connection with this Treaty on concessions. At the end when I saw that there are as many as 20 public Croatian goods here that are especially, so there are others in the concession game that are not particularly in the game. Well, the best thing for me is for the state of Croatia in view of this situation that they keep talking about by ruling us give the whole concession. There are countries in the world that have money, cash, then China and some others so that we might give our country along with all of us if someone took us in a concession at all. So this salto had to do with Croatian highways in order not to be fat in all these 20 areas of particular interest in concessioning so that it would be a disaster. Now, my colleague Tyrelli was talking about the number of employees, so we know very well why some problems have arisen in Croatian highways. Ms. Tyrelli tells us that in the Croatian highways, she is employed 3.2 per km of highway. And how was it employed? We know it's been employed in political likeness. So whoever has a private concession on the part of the Zagreb-Macelj highway is a small number of employees, so in Bina-Istria, there are a small number of employees, and in HAC, it's full of charge houses to all possible functions to manage, so all the bosses can't imagine it. That's why we don't know, and all we know is we're in good faith. And you're no better than you are because you're suffering from fatigue, to the mercilessness of all possible public enterprises. And you didn't say it was going to be in public fire companies in public companies, but in health care, education, etc. Why don't you fire in public companies? You've set up your men, so you won't be receiving them now, so now you're firing them. That's the problem, that's the problem of honesty in this country's business and nothing else. We don't need concessions, we need honesty in business and Croatian highways and Croatian roads and HEP, the Elektra economy as you will and all those representing Croatian public companies. If there was no dishonesty, if there were no thieving and crime, we wouldn't need a concession or anyone or should call a concession for it. And now the price of heating will rise in six major cities. Well, normally we need to co-finance Plomin, no money, no money for the project. So people pay these six big cities so pay for it or we'll sell it, so we'll sell HEP as a colleague from the HNS here today in the morning's debate. They're threatening to sell. Oh, no, you don't. So try to sell something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15151	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. First responds Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic, in fact, rightly, I think has ironized the word monetization which has now obviously begun to be used to cover up what it is. I don't know why this was necessary, so I see that this word is used especially when it comes to trying to give a long-term concession, so Croatian highways. Let's call things by our name. Why does it have to hide behind this exotic expression of monetization, let's say it's given in a long-term concession? What does that mean? This means that probably a good part of the parliamentary representatives when that concession expires will not be alive at all because if we know the average life of Croatian citizens, then for 35 years at least, part of us is a small chance of staying alive. So it's kind of a sale. Of course we can say that it's not that, that it's a long-term concession, etc. But in fact, for most of us, it will no longer be under our control. And that is why I think it is very important that in this law, regardless of all his good or bad ways and what the HDZ Club has proposed. to introduce in Article 5 a provision that it will not actually apply those provisions to large infrastructure facilities such as Croatian highways, railways, etc. I.e. the need for a special law that will prescribe such forms of concession because it has been working on some kind of national good in which we have all been giving our money for years. And if we have to do concessions, we do it for new roads, but for these existing ways, there are other ways that we can do it much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15153	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15154	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, do you think that would be your proposal to HDZ, it's just a delay of something that the corn coalition is about to implement right now. Do you think some new special law would change anything about that monetization allegedly? I do not ironize the word monetization but regrettably conclude therefore let me say Croatian that what it means is cashing in is and that is what is most important first and first, I mean first without quotes and first with quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15155	Thank you. The next replica is Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's this debate on the concession law has actually turned into the most practical part of something about something that hasn't happened yet, so it's possible to announce a long-term concession of a long-term kind, Reiner concessions are always long-term so Croatian highways or monetization as is said. Yes, unfortunately, we have to say that monetization is because there is no other solution, there is no alternative and not all the financiers who are a little better at looking at the current HAC system and in previous discussions it has been said that through concessions therefore more priced and fewer workers that our concessionaries that we have and which contracts are signed in the 1990s are actually looking for some more new solutions, Mr Calemta said in his discussion that they should be allowed to do so. What we now had according to the highway model said Mr Grubisic from the hollow to the blank. I'm afraid it was from public to private orita in one part of the party's party will say more relevant courts of the Republic of Croatia. I think that all together until the second reading we should look for an alternative and an alternative to this story and I think that the very intentions of the ministry are that the proposal goes into two readings, so this government doesn't want to hide anything, but it's just a selected consultant about it that's going to give some new models that haven't been the case of all these examples and Macel and Bine and everything we're getting on the head and hundreds of millions of VAT that are missing. This is obviously the only solution. If someone else shows up, we'll try to find them, but the equalization of the left and the right side always hurts, so I'm asking you not to do it without the arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15157	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, buddy Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15158	Thank you very much. ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15159	My colleague Grubisic's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15160	So in connection with your entire replica, I've only heard that it's just a possible announcement, so you said it seems to me to quote the monetization of Croatian highways. So you're obviously more than in your operation through all these nine months of your authority, these test balloons are really one specificity or characteristic of you. I guess you let the balloon go and then you listen to how the public, the citizens and the political parties and everyone else in society will react. So you released a balloon so that you could build a highway through BiH, so across Neum territory, then you reternized. Well, there won't be a Pelesian bridge balloon, so there'll be a Peles bridge. That's what this is all about. With such a proposal that has entered the legal procedure in this House as the first reading, this is no longer a test balloon, this is no longer a game and a joke, here we really need to be serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15161	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. To be honest, I'm not sure if I understood correctly or if my colleague Grubisic misrepresented himself when he asked the question, which is why there will be no layoffs in public companies, public companies. Unfortunately, there will be layoffs but not of the personnel you've been thinking about, and the layoffs will be very much, and we can't safely attribute these personnel to those who will be fired either to HDZ or SDP because they are the ones who are working. Those who have been brought into what you have alluded to will unfortunately be the layoffs of those who take control, who are not very much alike. We will continue to bring our staff, those who are in power, and build up that upper part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15163	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15164	Thank you very much. You reminded me well of my colleague, so you see when you look at the accommodations, say Croatian officials and deputies, public officials and tenants. This word is so good and so corresponds to the moment of truth for a little while, so also to HDZ governments, and now especially during Kukuriku, so the substitute, so he set it up. You see the other day in the diary, in the media how they are, and not just the other day, a little bit so set up the one who's being prosecuted, the assistant minister, the former assistant minister of ecology. So set up this guy who has a criminal record, so he's setting himself up, and you won't get fired, and those who might have built public enterprises for decades, companies, they'll be fired. There's no doubt about that. That's why I was talking about party membership, about it. Look at the party membership of HAC workers before 1.1.2012, see only who is registered there and whose blue book, not from Dinah, but someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15165	Thank you. This is what we're done with. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15166	Here's only in the end very briefly since it took a long time to stall the debate. There are still laws ahead of us. I thank you for the discussion, there have been a lot of constructive proposals that we will consider in the second reading, so we hope that we are also the first part to advance it until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15167	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15168	Next, the proposal of the Law on concessions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 134. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A proposal of the Law on concessions - All objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law Please make a statement. Who's to this conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 78 for, 8 against and 25 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, I will give the vote: - The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance undertakes to draw up the Final Proposal of the Law on concessions in Article 5 to introduce a provision under which the provisions of the Law on concessions will not apply to large infrastructure facilities such as Croatian highways and railways and that the concession procedure in these cases will be determined by a special law. I am giving this conclusion to the vote, although it is not possible to commit to the government in advance with what proposal it will come to the Croatian Parliament. It's not possible, because the government's right to create politics through a proposal for final acts. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm realizing that the conclusion didn't get the necessary majority. In conclusion, 25 voted against 77 and 9 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15169	We continue with - Final bill amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 160 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. One of the key objectives of the Modernisation of the Tax Administration project is in line with the best European and world practices, the reorganisation of the Tax Administration, which will be based on simpler and more efficient processes with modern working methods and modern technologies, higher quality of services for tax bonds and better management of human and material resources. Part of that reorganisation is the establishment of an office for large taxpayers to be prescribed by these amendments to the Tax Administration Act. Large taxpayers differ from other categories of taxpayers so that world tax administrations have introduced special establishment units, administrative procedures, as well as specific programmes and initiatives to monitor the degree of enforcement of their tax obligations. The establishment of an office for large taxpayers will be accompanied by particularly risky taxpayers identified by the volume of income and a high share of taxes and contributions or by the specificity of their activity. The aim is to monitor and monitor their business in a unique manner, regardless of which part of Croatia is based, and to ensure uniform treatment of all major taxpayers, including specific knowledge and methods of work. Based on a detailed analysis of taxpayers, around 623 large taxpayers have been identified who contribute around 46% of the taxes and contributions paid, i.e. who in 2011 achieved around 400 billion kunas of income and employ 1/4 of all employees in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore proposed to set up a special office for large taxpayers as a special 21st district office based in Zagreb with a specific internal organisation to carry out administrative, professional, administrative and supervisory tasks for a group of the largest taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia. In order to form a office for large taxpayers, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget since the Office will deploy tax administration officers, a total of 134 who are now working on supervision, tax determination and contribution operations and performance. In short, the objective of the Tax Administration is with this reorganisation, so according to one process that has already been started to end this process, that, in fact, according to large taxpayers, it actually approaches in a completely different way, in fact that the most qualitative people we actually have in the IRS are dealing with large taxpayers, but not in terms of how unfortunately the media conveys, a repressive sense. On the contrary, large taxpayers will be approached in an advisory way, in a completely different way because they are Croatian entrepreneurs who pay taxes in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, who employ a large number of people so that, in this context, they should actually look at the reorganisation of this part of the Tax Administration. There is a large area office at Zagreb level that only large taxpayers follow at Zagreb level. However, these parts would include other parts of Croatia with exhibits in Rijeka, Osijek and Split where, in fact, both vertically and horizontally, we would communicate that we have uniform solutions to all major taxpayers. We actually aim at all when solutions are actually made to be unique, so there are no different interpretations since large taxpayers, as we have said, are of the utmost importance not only for the budget, but also for the employment of a large number of people. So we have to treat them unanimously in fact, and in this context we actually need to look at this part of the tax administration's reorganisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15171	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to say a sentence, two about what unfortunately does not exist in this law. Unfortunately, there is no obligation of the Tax Administration to monitor the increase in the value of the taxpayer’s assets and the tax paid in the previous period. According to media announcements, the tax administration is now doing so, intensively, with media attractive persons, and it is their nickname. I'd like it to be their day-to-day commitment. Not something that will serve them honor, which will be very commendable but something that is normally done for wages, every day with each of us, with every taxpayer, that the IRS knows exactly how much property I have in what I can track real estate, cars, I don't know what I've grown and how much I paid taxes last year and that's normal, everyday work. So if the singers don't happen with a million long, I don't know the singers with two and so on. But there's no obligation in there. Looks like she won't even be in the IRS job description. There's nothing else I'd like him to be inside. There's no confiscation of criminal property. Now it is planned and the minister announced it, the IRS announced it would charge taxes on everything people don't have the origin of the money with which they got the property. So wait, if they don't have the origin of the money they got that property for, then they get that money in a criminal way. And it's not their property, it's stolen, and it's supposed to find a legal mechanism to freeze that property, and after a certain procedure, take it away because it's criminal property. But it's not in there. These amendments and additions to the law speak of one aspect, in fact, of the regulation of the Office for Large Taxengers, and in one place on the page of two such taxpayers, in addition to the fact that they are pillars of our society and are similarly referred to as the proponent to the risk-bearing taxpayers. And why are they risky? Is it because they cheat? I don't know, for some other reason, I don't know why they're risky. I'm asking, it says nice in there. You should keep an eye on those formulations. If such a formulation says that they are really risky and that they need to be specifically increased by watching, that that's why this tax leap is set up, let's call it that, then that's one story. If it's started because it's a specific business, then it's a whole different story. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the A new article is added, which says the finance minister will be in 30. As from the date of entry into force of this law, the Regulation laying down the conditions for meeting the criteria for the determination of large taxpayers for which the Office for High Taxengers is responsible shall be adopted. Great. However, in the introduction, the argument states that a detailed analysis of taxpayers identifies 600 large taxpayers who contribute 46% of the taxes and contributions paid, i.e. in 2011. Made 400 billion kuna revenue. Well, wait, you already know who they are. What's 30 days for? So, according to certain criteria, large taxpayers are established, you know how much they pay, you know how many there are. So it's not possible that it takes 30 days to now after the law is proposed and because of them is proposed, that 30 days should be done that list. It doesn't seem like much to me. Of course, the law is also needed and essentially good things. These illogicalities were likely to have been avoided as well as the lack of attention in the print so it's called... I don't know. It says weird. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such things should be looked after simply so that the wicked have nothing to object to. One aspect that is still important to me is the head that speaks of the evaluations of the means to implement this law. This department that's being organized to track large taxpayers should be composed of top experts with let me put it this way not exactly a limited budget. People who are really masters in their business, because the other side big tax collectors can pay the best lawyers, the best tax experts, have the perfect money to organize the whole thing the way the big business in the world does. Now, to our side, I'm talking about opposing sides, although that's not so, that on the part of the IRS we have people who could at least control it and keep it within some reasonable limits these people should be different profiles than the ordinary tax inspector, so no one is offended. We should just be top experts. I think this provision that it doesn't cost anything, it just can't stand and it doesn't have to stand, we care too much about it to stop on one flossula, so it won't cost anything. It's gonna cost and it's supposed to cost some money because it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15173	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15174	I meant to present what you said in my presentation, but since you later said I almost gave up the replica, this application of this law to me is only for the big so-called so-called. taxpayers are slightly speculative of the extension of the application of so-called so-called ‘registration’. the tax administration's discretion to make a deal with those large taxpayers. I've also had examples, and I know examples of where such a large under quotes "taxener" threatened if you're going at it to tell the bottom or harshly that they'll fire the workers because otherwise you can't settle your tax obligations. Is it then that I should say an office or a squad that will still have, be more protected by one, so one smaller group of people who will then have greater powers to apply discretion?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15175	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy. ... Excuse me, here's a second. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We also have a reply to the replica. Excuse me, colleague Shuker, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I've been optimistic my whole life, and that's why I'm holding on so well. I can't believe that's the reason for this department being introduced. What I want to believe is that these people aren't going to be how we have private bankers in the banks, especially kind to us because we're good customers, that it's going to be extremely professional and conscious people who, however, there's a different kind of business than in a guesthouse with 5 employees, right, who's going to do their job knowingly and accurately and accurately. I believe that, and I can't think of anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15177	Thank you. Here's colleague Ivan Schuker on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, Madam Director of the Tax Administration. Well, here I am going to start a little bit more seriously on behalf of the HDZ Club because I don't think both this subject and the IRS employees deserve these qualifications. But this law is a very brilliant PR as if nothing exists in the Croatian state. However, the facts are that someone simply cannot overwrite and they are there and cannot skip. So, in the Zagreb District Office 7 years ago, the Exposition for large taxpayers was established. With the sole goal that in the field office where it works and operates over 70% of large taxpayers, the logical thing is that these taxpayers cannot control every reference in the IRS for the simple reason that they do not have enough knowledge to control these large taxpayers and therefore, in the City of Zagreb, there is an outpost where, therefore, it was statusual, however you wish, formality equal to all the facilities in the City of Zagreb and they have been doing so for 7 years. Also in the tax administration's supervisory services and the Financial Police were one particular group to tell people who were also knowledgeable, they had far more knowledge to monitor large taxpayers, but let's not stop when we talk about large taxpayers only at the IRS. For the reason that there are today a series of transactions that are very interesting to the Financial Inspectorate and which are very interesting to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. So, with these controls done by the IRS, and these are very important IRS bodies, they're very much controlling these transactions, and I'm not saying that there's a HANFA present who controls the trading of securities on the stock market. But how is this law announced? It's like there's nothing in Croatia, like there's general chaos and there's no one in Croatia paying taxes. And that's what I want to publicly say here today, if someone has arguments to deny me with it, so in Zagreb there was a branch office for large taxpayers, in Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Slavonski Brod, and there were also one or two referencearies in the Tax Administration who took care of large taxpayers. Also, colleagues and colleagues, according to official data, the IRS average tax collection in the last 8 years is about 97.8%. The worst was in the crisis in 2009, it was about 94%. When you look at the percentage of the charge, there is no way to say that Croatia is a country where taxes are not paid. The perpetum of the mobile hasn't even been achieved in the technique, so it's hard to reach it here. When we talk here about the percentage of the payment, we are talking about the percentage of the tax that has been declared, so what taxpayers have reported to the IRS and who have established the supervision of the IRS. Because it is also registered as a taxpayer's obligation and at the end of the year you have, therefore, the total tax liabilities declared and established and the basis for how much the taxpayers have paid. However, when you take 2% of your 2.5 billion kunas when you look at nominally, then the amount is very large, and when you have those tails from previous years, then you come up with those famous figures that you're talking about. Why am I saying all this? So I'm talking for the simple reason why I don't think there's a man in Croatia who's well-intentioned who's not in the interest of anyone who's engaged in any kind of activity carrying out their obligations to the Republic of Croatia for the simple reason that we're more effective at tax collection it's going to create an opportunity to, if possible, reduce the tax. It's the only logic. There's no other logic. However, if we are to create an air conditioning that is not paid in Croatia, that is a crime, that is, that is, so unfortunately we will not achieve what we want to achieve. What does this law provide for? So all you can see from this is that the area offices are defined in three categories. So, in the first place is the City of Zagreb and with this District Office of the City of Zagreb is the office for large tax obligations, this is the facility that has been so far and will now extend one ingenuity to all Croatia. It is also obvious that in the areas offices of Split, Rijeka, Pazin and Osijek, it will be made as some kind of branch office that will be controlled by taxpayers. However, I will now say something, let the Deputy Minister and the Director deny me if that is not the case, but it is said on the Committee on Finance, it is also said that in tax facilities where there are large, let's say Slavonski Brod, where there are several large taxpayers, there will be a reference that will take care of these taxpayers and that he will be in charge of the district office of Osijek, if I am not mistaken, is said on the Committee on Finance. So no one argues that with the development of society, with economic development the logical thing is that even with some new transactions, the logical thing is that it requires a whole new organization of the IRS. But there was nothing in the system, and now we're creating something new. But this is simply, and ultimately you have this and in the conclusions of the Committee on Finance, this is simply a continuation of something that exists in a slightly different way. Perhaps the current Minister and Director of the Tax Administration and their colleagues at the Ministry of Finance believe it should be raised to rank the area office for the simple reason that a tax fraud in such a large society covers, we can say a few dozen potential tax frauds in small and medium-sized taxpayers and craftsmen. So it's something that's like that. However, there is something that does not match the bill's proposal, which is, and what was said when it came to the establishment of a special office for large taxpayers, which is an assessment of the means to implement the law. Because look, we're going to have a few more laws, we've also had the Investment Encouragement Act, which is the same in a certain way tanging the operating work of the IRS. Because all those tax breaks provided for by the Investment Encouragement Act will have to be controlled by the Tax Administration in 2, 3 or 4 years. So, in the Tax Administration, whether in this area office for large taxpayers or someone else, they will have to record that someone with this and that basis has achieved a tax relief or, for example, at the re-emergency, they will have to be closely monitored. Here we're saying that 100 and a few other people will be employed in the district office for large taxpayers plus these others. Now the question is, is it really true that the IRS had so many extra people? Look, when we take this fiscalization bill we're going to discuss today, probably late, late in the afternoon or tomorrow morning. Well, it's impossible that all these millions of daily transactions that are going to land in the IRS, that no one will need to analyze and analyze them, something to do with them. Because what's the use of all the data we're going to collect if no one's going to work on them. So the question is, how many new people are going to need to do this whole job? And that colleagues and colleagues wouldn't turn out to be just criticising in HDZ, so we agree with everything that will help and tax control, and what will help Croatian entrepreneurs. But we don't agree with labels that stick to people. It's something that's simply unacceptable and it's something that we can't possibly accept and we can't agree on. Because look for every label you have to have an argument. Because every label without an argument is very dangerous for the state. And finally, to conclude and try to round up everything that I said, so it's obvious that there was something in the organization, there was practically everything that he wanted to show as an office for large taxpayers. It is evident that the percentage of tax collection over the past 8 years has been 98%, these are official data from the IRS. It is evident that the Tax Administration should work on, above all, the education of its employees. I am also sorry that the government abolished the IRS between 2000 and 2003. And that may be one of the biggest mistakes, because all these taxpayers we're talking about, their owners have, as counterpart Vuljanic said, space and opportunities to hire the biggest financial experts. If not out there, and she's out there. While the IRS unfortunately has very modest means of education. And that's the same story as putting a sprinter on a 100m track and putting a long-sleeve at 10,000 feet, a great world champion, and then wondering how this stomometer left him some sort of average. For a simple reason. Therefore, it is simply necessary to create material and technical conditions, Mrs. Director of the Tax Administration, in order for people in the tax administration to function, to be able to handle themselves equally, and there you will certainly have the support of the HDZ Club. I'm just saying this is gonna be a dead letter on paper if we don't educate people. And I said, this is one small part of the job, the financial inspectorate here is very important, because all these big entrepreneurs are working very hard out, they're exporters, they have a series of transactions that need to be controlled. Therefore, when we talk about this business, we should not only talk about one segment but we should talk far beyond. And the other thing I said was, it's not good to label those against whom you didn't initiate the procedure not to pay taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15179	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15180	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Shucker, colleague Shuker. In the first part of your presentation, you alluded to a serious debate here. Since my colleague Vuljanic spoke before you, and I had a replica, so I don't know who this unserious debate is for you. But it's much more serious when, in your term of office, the Minister of Tax Administration in Slavonski Brod signed a contract for 3.5 million rents per year using space for 10 years. So that's 35 million in 10 years, or 5 million euros. It's a much more serious thing than this discussion of ours that you think was inconclusive. Furthermore, perhaps these 100 new people you are talking about, in connection with the need to work in the office in Zagreb, so in this new office, although this material says there is no need to hire new ones, but there may be some Buljujasic, so they will be employed in the Tax Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15181	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15182	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, because of the dignity of this house sometimes it is best to talk on some replicas, because these replicas most speak about those who have expressed them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15183	Thank you. Next replica, Damir Rilje. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15184	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Shucker, Deputy Minister with his associates. Oh, here, I had to take this because I kind of felt that story on my back about tax evasion. In fact, the point is that even local self-government units didn't have to pay for one longer period or who controlled them not to pay taxes. So let's say for example. To simplify, I inherited tax evasion in my unit of local self-government not only in the city itself, of course, from the moment the authorities were taken over, therefore, the payment of taxes until then was inherited through almost a little less than a year of non-payment of taxes and contributions, and also in the case of budgetary users within local self-government units. It shouldn't have gone away, but it was gone, and the fact is that the consequences of it are felt today because, of course, it had to be paid, and the IRS was charging interest on interest. As for taxpayers, privates and everyone else, I can tell you that there's certainly something to control here, you probably know better than I do. So I wanted to be without bad intentions but in any case with what I can argue and what was reported where I should have come clean with this remark.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15185	Thank you. We have a colleague Ivan Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15186	Thank you very much. Honestly speaking to me as far as I know local self-government units, the use of budgets is controlled by the State Audit. So the State audit in its regular annual control should have determined that you did not pay taxes and inform the IRS about it, and that's the job of doing the state administration, that one who discovers must inform the others who work. You can hide your hands as much as you want but it's just a fact and that's how it should be done because if it's done differently, we have ineffectiveness. Therefore, the State Audit had to establish this and it had to inform the Tax Administration. And if the tax administration hasn't done anything about it then we need to see who took it and why he didn't do anything. So they're facts and that's it. But it has nothing to do with what the finance department colleagues are proposing right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15187	Thank you. Next on behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, Madam Director of the IRS. So here's listening to these discussions so far, it would actually be said that our taxpayers are responsible. A fellow Shuker said the charge was 97.8%. I accept it as a fact that he as a former minister certainly knows well. Now it is said in the assessment of the situation of this proposed law, that only 5% of large taxpayers were covered by external tax supervision in 2011 in the overall tax control. This means that they settled their tax obligations neatly despite only 5% of them being supervised. So then a man asks himself the question of whether it is really necessary then to form it was said in the media by a certain tax squad, later I see that it is an office, so I compared it the other day with those partisan orders first in Sisak, etc. Now it's really in contrast that payability is therefore tax collection 97.8%, which is a great result in world scales with only 5% supervision. So what do you think the chargeability would be if there was this 100% surveillance especially in this so-called. large taxpayers, which according to this assessment are about 600. It can't be about 600. That's the same thing when one representative said that about 20, 30 people were killed in the Maslenica Action, as well as about 600 large taxpayers. It's 603 or 595 or I don't know how much. And they contribute with 46% of the taxes and contributions paid, with 400 billion kuna of revenue. Now, my colleague Vuljanic was talking about the singers, and I don't think it's an unserious debate about some of them I won't name anyone today, but really here you as Parliamentarians know that yours, ours, my net salary around some let's round up like these 600 to 200 thousand kuna, right, we all know how much it is. ...work hours, years going half a percent, but let's say about 200 thousand kuna. How can it be explained that a columnist of one newspaper has a tax debt of one million kunas? How much is his income in the first place if he only has a tax debt of $200,000? And he's a journalist. I'm not underestimating, thank God I don't underestimate but I just want to say relations, comparisons in relation to these numbers of occupations, etc. This material states that the main office or office of the first category will be in Zagreb and the office for large taxpayers. The area offices of the second category are thus named to be in Split, Rijeka, Pazin and Osijek, and I have heard from the former minister and representative himself that there are several large taxpayers and in Slavonski Brod of these 600 that is a fact. So I'm not interested in being in Pazin, thank God it's because there's tourism, etc. We know that there are very large taxpayers there, but how does Zadar and Ship turn out, etc.? I don't know. And there's certainly tourism in Zadar, and there's also big taxpayers, very big ones. In view of the words of my predecessor, therefore, if this office is in Osijek, how will this office and this division from Osijek control daily or do I not know the power of a large taxpayer in Slavonski Brod or Nova Gradišca? No problem. So try to get to Nova Gradiška from Osijek, and you will see if you have any problems. So if it's already known, and in the assessment of the situation it's written that there are about 600 large taxpayers, and yet in that same assessment, it's said that large taxpayers will be defined within 30 days, so by one grade, by cutting, by reviewing the IRS itself, and now you surprise me that there are six. Is it really, given the information of our public administration and also the Tax Administration, it really takes 30 days to see who the big taxpayers are? I hope that our deputy minister and directorate will explain in the proposal's final statement. All in all, given that we are always in favour of the order in tax collection, that taxes and taxes are properly paid, as well as contributions, and those fees today on the topic we have already dealt with, on concessions, where there are 215 million unpaid concessions in the budget, and that would be worth a little processing and publicly showing who does not pay the concession, and is doing the concession job for which he concluded a contract with the State or the local community on that concession. So, given our interest in finally introducing tax, financial and fiscal discipline in this country, the HDSSB club will be for this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15189	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15190	Thank you. I'm just going to remind a respected colleague first of all that, in addition to the field offices of the first, second categories exist and those third categories, there are outposts of the area offices. And as for the Pazin District Office, which I think would be much more correct if it were called Pula District Office, it must be the second category office, because other than a third of Croatian tourism oversees tax collection and from a whole series of significant business entities of which I will list only two: Adris or Uljanik, which account for not only a sum of Croatian exports but also a significant part of Croatia's GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15191	Thank you, too. Replication response, colleague Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15192	My fellow coat of arms, I hope you're convinced that what you said I know that the area office of the second category as you said Pula or Pazin is watching and Adrian. And does Adrian really need it, it's only now suspicious, maximum, so make sure this state office is in charge of Pula, because we should be watching Adris. If it's as risky as it says in this material.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15193	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came to Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15194	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputy Minister, the esteemed director of the IRS, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say that this legal proposal is small in its scope, so by volume of content, but I think it's essentially one strong step. Why? The perception of Croatian citizens and the vast majority of economic operators was that the Tax Administration and the Tax Press so far had been focused mainly on citizens and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, without actually touching the large entrepreneurs at all. In fact, this is not just a matter of perception and the data presented in the assessment of the situation attached to this legislative proposal, which was that in 2011, in total tax supervision, the representation of large entrepreneurs was only 5%. Now, this tax supervision law focuses on large taxpayers because they have come to realize that they are absolutely important for both the state's economic system and for filling the state budget and that the lack of a quality management of large taxpayers poses a great risk to the sustainability of public finances. In one word, large taxpayers are a great fiscal potential, but also in the absence of effective supervision, they are both a huge potential and real fiscal loss. As a result, a special office for large entrepreneurs is being established at the Tax Administration, so we heard before from the former minister that this was not an idea born right now, that it has been working for a long time and that the matter has existed for a long time, the question is just what way. So that office would have its main business in managing a small group of taxpayers of great importance. It is therefore 600 taxpayers who made 400 billion kunas of income in 2011 with a quarter of the total number of employees in the Croatian economy and who aliminate almost half of the total taxes and contributions paid. So every other kuna of contributions paid and taxes in the state register comes from these large taxpayers. The job of tax control over large entrepreneurs would carry out 140 of the most professional people in the tax system because we really believe that it is an extremely complex, extremely demanding job for which one enormous knowledge, one great experience, and of course it will need one permanent, additional, permanent education. What with this, therefore, is not good with this law are the remarks that come from the opposition order, that criminal orders are being created that will make an unprecedented repression against large taxpayers. In fact, I must say that the general opposition to this whole package of laws relating to the regulation of financial discipline, therefore to strengthening tax culture and citizens and entrepreneurs calls anti-entrepreneurship laws and laws that create an anti-enterprise climate, which drive potential investors from Croatia. Although we all know that, it has already been the announcement of certain laws and also the publication of those famous lists of shame that has contributed to a much better tax charge. It's obviously an opposition to a classic example of thesis replacement. It is true that investors do not come to Croatia precisely because they complain of financial indiscipline. So German investors, our biggest investors as one of the main obstacles to investment in Croatia, point out just financial indiscipline. Well, finally, our domestic investors, who are absolutely important to us, are also getting in the way of investment, because they're afraid of exactly that financial uncertainty. That's why they prefer to keep money in banks because they make a safe profit on interest, without any trouble or special risk. The real truth is that a large part of our entrepreneurs are crying out for financial discipline and wants to settle their obligations neatly, not just tax and all of them. But in a situation where others don't do it, they eskicipate honest ones actually turn out to be fools, which isn't really the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that with orderly settlement of obligations, such entrepreneurs become uncompetitive in relation to those frauds, let's say, let's say freely, and the frauds are mostly amnesty of the responsibility that they have extended this one, I would say the non-payment, which has ruined a number of honest entrepreneurs and made a financial mess in the country. In doing so, colleagues and colleagues should not be fooled that the non-compliance of obligations did not take place with the blessing of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. For years, social peace has been safeguarded, and only the agony of over-indebted enterprises has been extended, thus contributing to the spread of indifference. For years, it was allowed to pay salaries without paying taxes and contributions, to pay wages through union accounts, to pay under the table, to pay in the form of vouchers. So the idea of bypassing the law in Croatia has never really been missed. And there was no bankruptcy for years, and the IRS was bound by law to do so. And finally, I want to say something about another dimension that is being read from this legislative proposal, but also more from the opening presentation submitted by the Deputy Minister. It is a qualitatively different approach I would say about a different philosophy in performing the tax administration's work which could be the beginning of one I would say radical transformation of the Tax Administration from the repressive bureaucratic governing body into the service of the economy. The functioning of the Tax Administration in the near future should be based less on repression and much more on advice, interpretations and help solve the problem of entrepreneurs. This advisory educational function is something that is truly missing from Croatian entrepreneurs. So far, the IRS has been very zealous in punishing, and it is precisely that professional aid to taxpayers. We could simply say so far the IRS has been working on the formula our position is that it is and so there is nothing to discuss. They'll either act on it or they'll be punished. And there's something else missing from economic operators, and that's a unique way of applying tax regulations. That tax regulations are interpreted differently in the Tax Administration in Split than in the Tax Administration in Čakovec. Because it also creates unequal operating conditions for economic operators, and the IRS of course makes it unworthy. There must really be no improvisation in carrying out tax oversight. I hope that this law will go towards making it as small as possible and that it disappears completely. And in the end, the office for large taxpayers and tax inspectors and tax regulations are just one thing I would say to the infrastructure or computer dictionary is a tax hardware that does not give good results without a good software, and software is absolutely and irrefutable political will. So it's political will that drives the processes or stops, and what kind of political will it's been so far, how much it's shown is a figure of 50 billion unpaid taxes in the last ten years, twenty.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15195	Thank you. We have a replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Jelash, from me and my colleagues from HDZ, you certainly didn't hear the term "punishment squad," flying brigades. It was all served after the government passed the law on your part. And today in my debate, you couldn't hear a single unargumented statement. Therefore, I will also not respond to some of your lunches I would just like to remind you of the 2002 Law on outstanding claims, which is said to be tax-free in Croatia and the contribution of 23 billion. If you take that average tight interest somewhere for a natural person was 14 and for a legal 18%, so just calculate interest on that 24 billion you'll see how much debt today should be that nothing has been charged. The second thing, at the time of the acquisition of the Pension and Health Insurance Institute by the Tax Administration of 1.7.2002, the debt of the Mirovinski and the Health Institute was over 7 billion kuna. So we can talk about the facts, we can talk about it anyway. But on the other hand, if you're talking about such efficiency, you say 95 million kunas are charged in a month. You know how much interest at 51 billion in that month in the IRS is recorded 600 million kuna. So, the balance minus 500 million kuna. But this kind of political debate isn't going to get us anywhere or help our colleagues in the IRS. But when you talk about indivisibility, then you forget the key segment, but it's not the IRS, it's not the Ministry of Finance, it's the judiciary with bankruptcy and with speedy judgments where the fact is completely clear that someone owes someone, that the verdict is made within a month, and not that they've been waiting for it for a few years. And then you have the results you have, but it would also be good if the IRS had announced the structure of this 50 billion-dollar debt and let's see its manual since when some things go. After all, we're going to see in a year how much this is going to cost, and then we're going to see that the same thing as that famous law on outstanding claims, and ultimately, it wasn't even a billion kuna. And it would be very interesting if someone had checked those deals too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15197	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Nadia Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15198	Thank you very much, Vice President. So like this, my colleague Shuker, I really didn't talk about any lunches on your part. However, I pointed out in a positive sense, in a positive context, what you pointed out at the Finance Committee's session that this is not really any newspaper, so the organisational structure for the control of large entrepreneurs exists from before. So that's definitely where I point out your partial credit for the existence of what we're talking about today. As for the political debate. Well, the fact is, it's the IRS' data that at the moment, 50 billion kuna taxes are unsettled. And if there were 23 billion outstanding tax debts in 2000, there were also taxes, outstanding taxes from companies in the war that were damaged or disappeared in the war that were written off, which could not be charged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15199	Thank you, too. Next debate, Josip Bencic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, Mrs. Director, dear colleagues and colleagues. I volunteered for this debate because, I've already mentioned it several times, and I worked at the state administration, and especially in the IRS, and I support here at the beginning of my colleague Jelash when she mentioned how much I heard from the opposition that we are now inventing something epochal. No, we're not making up anything, we're just a little bit of a fixer-upper, or we want to raise the IRS to a higher level. At least that's how I realized it. I was lucky to have started in '88. For years working in the then Social Accounting Service, which the state was not God-knowing, but the payment traffic was certainly higher. And in that system, you couldn't just pay your salary without making a tax contribution before that. We only realized now after 20 years in 2012 that this could not go on. Why am I saying that? So there was a clear distinction between the big ones, let's say, and small businesses, i.e. caterers, merchants. It was internal and external surveillance. In fact, the Tax Administration, i.e. the Social Accounting Service, dealt exclusively with large users, and the Directorate of Income Small. And that external surveillance, so that's the surveillance that comes out on the ground he didn't always have, come on, somebody here said criminal expeditions. It's no use to the IRS today just to punish. And in that sense, I welcome the establishment of this particular field office in that part, and the Deputy Minister himself said it would have some kind of advisory function. Normally, it must have an advisory function because it is not enough to issue an opinion but must cover the whole of Croatia, not just the City of Zagreb. As far as I understand it, only the City of Zagreb has covered this IRS facility for large entrepreneurs. In the old days, at least when I was training as an inspector, we clearly did a dissent from the error of intent. So it's not every tax collector's business to catch someone in some kind of a misdemeanor, but to see if that's the intention, whether it's intentional or it's a mistake, so if it's normal to take some other sanctions, then we don't have to be immediately harassed by what's said. Surely the need for the establishment of this area office comes out, and as already said here from the size of these companies. Now as the finance minister will determine which company is going to be in control, whether he will look at the total income, whether he will look at the number of employees, whether he will take the amount, or the amount of commitment he has to the state, is now his business, and I would be happy to see as many such large companies as possible and to have as many such supervisions as possible. I think there was also talk about, one important thing we may have forgotten about, the economics of doing such a big outpost. Normally, this will simplify the work, as far as I understand it, let's say in some smaller exposures there will be people who will only be extended by this special field office which will normally simplify the procedure and that important thing means we will have a unique approach to these large tax bonds throughout Croatia. I'm just a little, I don't know, worried, so I can tell and worry about this information that only 5% of these big companies were covered by surveillance. I don't know, I didn't get any logical explanation here why it was like that. And it would be interesting if someone answered me why it was only 5%. What about the other 95%? ... Yeah, but I was a counselor, you know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't make any decisions about who it was going to, I'm sorry. Well, that might be interesting to hear, but I'm not even looking for a decided answer. In any case, I consider this law good and for all these reasons that have been laid out so far, and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15201	Thank you very much. We thus exhausted the list of registered representatives for the debate for 10 minutes. We still have one replica of your presentation, Your Honor. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15202	Thank you, Vice President. So my colleague Bencic, in the context of mentioning SDK as a control system for control of tax obligations, said so I would say a little clumsy state at the time was not God-knows-what. Well, since I'm sentimentalally related to SDK because I've actually spent my entire working life in the SDK system of the Department of Payments and Financial Agency, then I'll say that during SDK, tax supervision was extremely effective. Therefore, through the inspection or external control that took place every year in taxpayers, it could not have happened that the tax was not paid. In addition, more practical day-to-day control was carried out through internal control, so directly through a payment order.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15203	Thank you very much. And finally, Deputy Minister of Finance, respected Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So very briefly just some answers actually are, some of the questions that have been asked here. First, they were criteria. Why wasn't the law immediately defined as criteria but left with the rule? So we already know what companies they are, but in the introduction we said that there is somewhere they are covering them somewhere around 46% of their budget payments. We set off with the criteria of 150 million kuna, meaning income and means somewhere 20 million euros in activity to define it. So these are banks, insurance houses, Leasing societies, telecommunications companies precisely because we wanted to start with a smaller number of entrepreneurs just to see how this will work in terms of the way and communication that we are now going to have to do both vertically and horizontally, i.e. communication now at a distance. We've left the possibility that we don't have to change the law every time, to define it by regulation. As we know next year, we are entering the EU when our market will be open and actually access other companies. It is very simple to come to our markets that just as such companies that will be coming to our market to invest in fact that we can make them very simple in one way by regulation, it means that we allow the Tax Administration to actually adjust the arrival of new companies. We don't have to change the law administratively every time if we declare someone to be big. So the goal is to actually increase from the current 46%, to go to 60, 70% of those tax revenues that we're going to control. So that's the main reason. So it's going to go straight in, and the rulebook, so it's going to go parallel, but because of the technical reasons and the way it works, we started actually to define that part in particular. I wouldn't be here, if we were talking about risky taxpayers, if something hadn't been misunderstood, it wasn't, in that sense, a negative sense, that they were risky, and because of their non-payment, but precisely because of their own, let's say the importance and the risks to the state budget. Since they are participating 46% of their income and hiring a very large number of people, but because of the fiscal impact they are in that part, there is certainly one part of the risk unless they are followed. Well, in that context, they were actually placed that part, so not in some negative sense. Sure, I'm sorry intro that, I don't know if my colleague Shuker listened well, I said there was an office at the level of Zagreb, and that this is a continuous process. And it's good that no matter what authority it is that this process is actually going on, that the IRS and actually professionals are working on it. And that this process, in fact, no matter who's in power, actually, these parts continue. So it's not here, so in my opening statement it was that it was there, that part of the process continued. And I wouldn't want to comment on this part in the media. So you've never heard from me that it's once a special squad, etc. I think we should let the IRS do their job just like other services do their job. And that we actually try to focus on one much more important fact, and that's the part, actually, that, to actually start turning around, to start hiring, we start turning completely to another philosophy. And not this piece, unfortunately, that there's a media release today, about this part of the pressure. So there's no pressure on our part, and here I speak publicly, there's no pressure on big entrepreneurs. These are Croatian entrepreneurs who employ workers in the Republic of Croatia, who pay. So there are no special presses to such entrepreneurs, but exactly what we said, it's a difficult process that goes before the IRS. And why? Exactly because of the different interpretations we find on the ground and on committee finances. In fact, Mrs. Becic showed in her own experience that there were different interpretations, precisely in the part where it was not the advisory part of the IRS. It's an assignment in front of the IRS. Of course you have to have people to do that, of course you have to pay those people. This is one challenge that actually the Tax Administration is, in fact, that in this context, it actually tries to solve these problems and to be much more quality work and much more, in fact, contributions, not only in this tax sense but also in these entrepreneurs to start moving forward tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15205	Thank you very much. We have a signed replica of Agent Ivan Shuker on your display of respect for the Deputy Minister. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, colleague Lalovec is not at all controversial by your opening debate today, nor by the board. I think that's where we both talked practically the same. That this is an upgrade to something that existed and is a normal thing as time develops, so it is likely that in 3.4 years someone will propose, not another organization, but simply life will ask for it to be done. I just referred to the interpretation and interpretation of the law by some colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and the minister himself at the moment the law was passed in the Croatian government. Then everything that was said here was said. And I'm glad that you just repeated that in the opening part you said that certain things existed and that the world doesn't start today. Yes, some things will always continue from those predecessors and that it is not good for us, it is not good because of those who want to invest in Croatia that we show Croatia as a country where taxes are not paid. 98% is a very high percentage. Take all the members of the European Union and the Scandinavian countries, and you will see that they do not have an estimatedly high percentage. And let's not throw mud at ourselves where we don't need it. With all that the ruling coalition colleagues have also said, that simply tax and the IRS is something to be kept watch over, because as soon as you turn your head aside, those who do not want to pay taxes are drawn to you. And because of these, laws are passed, such ones are constantly changing and are being controlled. And not because of those who want to save jobs, who want to increase their profits, you will certainly not get involved in tax menfetluks, because they are aware that such tax menfetluk can practically destroy the company. And in such a way, if we all talk, then we're really going to aim at this goal of all paying taxes so that we all end up paying less taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15207	Thank you, too. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, do you want a reply to the replica? Thank you very much. [[I don't have anything.]] This is the final debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. Let's move on, move on. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 160. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Do you accept? Report to the microphone. [[Intruder: We accept.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15209	Thank you very much. We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15210	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft law with the amendment accepted. Who's to pass this law? Thank you very much. Who's against it? There isn't. Are there any abstentions? There is. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 107 for and 5 abstentions, have been passed in the proposed text. We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZE No. 147 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings, and you can submit amendments until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the applicant want a representative, i.e. The Governments of the Republic of Croatia further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act also makes the remaining harmonisation with Directive 2008/48/EC on consumer credit and improves the system of introducing measures that serve to further protect consumers. The reasons for amending the law lie primarily under unfavourable lending conditions which have recently led citizens into an unembarkable situation. High interest rates, simple change in interest rates and abuse of certain provisions of the applicable Consumer Credit Act, e.g. the misuse of an exception to which loans to an amount below 1500 kn were excluded from the application of the law, and in practice there was a multiplication of smaller amounts, avoidance of the application of the law. They have severely affected the position of citizens. The above changes and additions to the law make it impossible to refer to the behaviour of creditors in credit relations. In particular, exemptions from the application of this credit law to less than 1500 kn, as an exemption for deposit-based loans, thus ensuring consumer protection and in these credit relations. In addition, the amendments shall regulate the way in which a variable interest rate can be changed. The credentials are required to define the parameters based on which a change in the variable interest rate, e.g. Reference interest rates, consumer price index, credit risk renam or the like. This definition of the period during which decisions on the correction of interest rates are to be taken. The parameters must be clearly and unequivocally presented to the consumer prior to the conclusion of the loan agreement. Furthermore, the important paper adopted by the amendments and the amendments to the law is regulation of an effective interest rate which must not exceed the limits of the interest rate established by the Law on Mandatory Relations... 12% tight interest rate in relations where one foreign consumer is, ensuring consumer protection against interest rates and different fees. It is also regulated by the proposed changes and additions that the consumer who lends credit to creditors other than credit institutions, credit unions and company leases must be dedicated and consumer lending to those creditors cannot be a basic activity but must serve for the purpose of carrying out the basic activity of that believer such as the sale of goods or the provision of services. It is also important to mention that the amendments and amendments to the law implement the remaining provisions of Directive 2008/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2008 more precisely Article 15(2). The related credit agreements Directive, which gives the consumer the possibility to seek the fulfilment of contractual obligations from creditors of the creditor unless it has succeeded in stemming from the supplier. For example. the purchase of a car in a car that co-operates with a trustee bank if it cannot solve the problem with the car has exhausted all the legal solutions in that sense, the consumer may contact the bank with a request to terminate the credit relationship and return of the vehicle. The amendment to the amendments and additions of the Consumer Credit Act will have an additional positive impact on consumer protection because if the believer has an increase in interest rates on the basis of the said criteria, he will have to inform the consumer 15 days before such a decision is implemented, and the consumer will be able to pay the credit early in the three months of receiving such notice without obligation to pay any compensation to the believer, including the contracted remuneration for the early repayment of the credit. That rule will apply to both new and existing credit agreements. All these amendments aim to improve the position of citizens on the market and provide adequate protection to citizens in respect of consumer lending services. The measures will lead to a higher degree of competition between creditors and consequently better conditions for consumers. We hereby show that we accept the amendment... Thank you. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15213	Thank you very much. I understand you've accepted the amendment to the government. Do the rapporteurs of the Assembly's working bodies want to take the floor? They don't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the first club of the HNS and respected representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15214	Thank you very much. I understand you've accepted the amendment to the government. Do the rapporteurs of the Assembly's working bodies want to take the floor? They don't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the first club of the HNS and respected representative Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15215	Thank you very much. The next club is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Nancy Tyrelli. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. Here is the club Labour supports the adoption of such a single Consumer Credit Act and, in terms of consumer protection, the most vulnerable users of credit. We regret that this law goes according to an emergency procedure just because here is what the deputy says we are harmonising it with the EU or with the laws of 2008 but better than ever. In the part of the law governing the lending of business banks, which unfortunately proved to be equally dangerous in some cases by debtors and lenders, we must express serious criticism over several basic moments. I would like to point out that Article 11a has not regulated the principle of changing the interest rate in a way that fully protects consumers' interests. The provisions of this article do not in any way define a set of parameters which may affect the change in interest rate, but states which parameters may be which is certainly incomplete and unclear definition and as such can be manipulated in practice in different ways. They do not define the formation of an interest rate in such a way that it consists of one variable parameter and a fixed margin, which is the only option which could make the principle of forming an interest rate truly transparent and fairly divided the risk between creditors and debtors. If we have one variable parameter, let's say the euroribora then other parameters such as the increase of the premium on the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia should be or should be an integral part of the fixed banking margin so that their movement is reflected as a larger or smaller profit of banks. The provisions of Article 11 oblige the Bank only to indicate in the contract which these are variable parameters, and does not undertake to place in the contract a specific formula, i.e. as the law says or could say that causal link on which interest is based on these parameters as such and forms. This, of course, gives room for the principle that interest formation is unilaterally changed during the duration of the loan. Article 11(4) states that the creditor offering variable interest rates is obliged to clearly and unequivocally present to the consumer prior to the conclusion of the loan contract any variable elements. We'd like to maybe show it, move it and put it here that the believer who offers these variable rates is bound by the contract as an integral part of the contract is also a variable element. In accordance with Article 11, paragraph 5 of the Law provides for the possibility that the creditor may not behave under the above-mentioned provisions of the law. This seems to exclude all existing credit agreements in the next paragraph of application of this law, which makes it appear to us that already existing loans are being discriminated against against those users who will become so after the adoption of this law. For existing credit users, the possibility is provided to deny consent to change interest which is certainly commendable and represents certainly a major step in relation to the current situation where banks were only able to send a higher rate of interest, especially because it is pointed out that the creditor should not unilaterally terminate the contract in that case. However, the provision is unclearly addressed because it does not provide precise guidance, which in such a case is in fact proof that the believer did not comply with the provisions of paragraph 1 as this paragraph does not apply to the loans concluded before the entry into force of this law. In this way, the law does not recognise those loans in Swiss francs that remain a major problem for all its users. For unknown reasons, these proposed amendments to the law are not regulated by the most sensitive segment of consumer lending, and these are certainly residential loans. Citizens who buy housing must not be legally in the same position as investors who buy space to carry out their economic activities and to acquire their profits. And for this reason, it might be desirable to consider this upper limit for the application of this law, which is raised to a million kuna, and let's say given the simple calculation that someone wants to buy a 70-square apartment at some price of 1500 euros, so the amount is more than a million kuna and as such is not protected by this law. What this law does is we haven't gotten rid of the question of how to end the interest rate lending through so-called. A credit bandit, who can control them and how. Unfortunately, the witnesses that this is more and more used every day are spreading to us through various offers, mobile numbers, phones, and I think that the State Inspectorate would have to take care of it because everything that is in accordance with the law and all those financial institutions that get a license to carry out their activities can certainly be controlled and I hope that the State Inspectorate and the Croatian National Bank will do well and quality by applying this law, but here we have another large segment that we have failed to cover, and I hope that we will find a way for that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15217	Thank you, too. There is a single replica, respected representative of the Peđa Grbin, on your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15218	Chairman, here's a little bit. I hope that we do not have different texts of the law because from what I have read Article 11(6), the provision of paragraph 5, which is behind the amendment given by the Government, will apply precisely to existing contracts, means all contracts. We thus de facto foresee the retroactive application of this law which we have discussed on the Committee on Legislative Law which in its report clearly pointed out that, in a concrete case, there is a particularly legitimate reason for the retroactive application of this law so I will repeat once again, this provision on which there has been a lot of public talk, the amendment of the Government will apply not only to those contracts that will be concluded once this law has entered into force, but it applies to all the contracts that have been concluded so far. So all citizens here are in a completely equal, completely equal position and this law applies, this law protects all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have concluded a loan with a variable interest rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15219	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15220	I said that unfortunately loans in Swiss francs remain an open issue because they will not be resolved as such in the manner of accounting and in the way the banks have earned, and that regardless of how they apply retroactively does not apply to these loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15221	Thank you very much. The next debate is on behalf of the IDS club and respected representative Damir Cain. He's not in the assembly. He's losing the right to discuss this subject. SDP club of Croatia and respected representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15222	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another law that has an E mark. This means that it is in line with the legislation of the European Union. However, the quality of this law is not only because we are going to bring another law in line with European Union legislation but because it does, and it brings much more order into the system of lending, that even better or even more so than so far, consumer protection, i.e. that citizens and the economy will be protected, so all those who today are forced to take loans, and unfortunately, most of us are. What changes these changes and additions? Some things that are less important, but also some that are very important. It's changed that the introduction is called order, it determines who can simply deal with the lending business which is good. But what's much more important and that's that and it's good and it's being introduced, so the exemption from those small loans to a thousand and a half kuna that have never been... if I may say so, but under uncontrollable conditions, they could be placed on interest that was not limited by any means, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's good to put it in the same plane as these so-called. larger loans because even more small loans can be destroyed under unfavourable interest rates. But the most important thing about change is to introduce order on variable interest. So that interest cannot be changed just like that and that there is no excessive growth and that is without reason. Of course the bank always has a reason to increase interest. Her reason is to make more money, to make a bigger profit, and that's a very reasonable and good reason for her. But that reason is not good for the consumer, it's not good for the citizens, it's not good for the company that takes the credit. Therefore, it is good to introduce in this law the creditor's obligation to inform whoever took the loan in his intention to go into a change of interest, it is right for him who takes the credit to declare it, whether he accepts it or not. And in the end, what's most important if he doesn't accept such a thing can change the creditor, he can take another bank where it's more favourable, and it doesn't cost anything, that he doesn't have to pay the fee he's had to pay the bank so far if he goes to the so-called bank. A one-time loan payment. The very fact that a bank must inform each of its clients whether it is a citizen or a company that it is going to change the variable interest already by itself, strong enough, and that is that it has to give an explanation to the x address and that explanation must probably be too much. Of course, it can be wrapped up with excessive or reasoned good reasons, and in fact it can hide the pure greed of the bank, greed for greater profit and greater interest. But we'll see what happens in practice. But this restriction is already kind of alerted to such behavior. I hope it won't be with our banks and other creditors in line with a long ago aphorism that I've seen, which says like this: No matter how much the increase makes me laugh, so much the explanation makes me laugh. I hope that such arguments will not be, but that this increase will indeed be if it is justified to move on the capital market which is clear, visible and evidenceable. So, in that sense, there is a great novelty and a great new quality in this law, because in some ways they will actually put it, I would say in a more equal or equal position and one who takes credit and one who gives. So far, the one who gave it was God and the beating, and the one who took the loan was happy that he had won it and had no opportunity to, he was eligible for all the conditions prescribed for him on a variable interest, so the bank could change it without informing him, without explaining it. And if he could possibly find a more favourable source of capital somewhere, a more favourable source of credit couldn't leave because he had to pay off the cost of a one-time payment. That's what I'd say about the almost vasal relationship that we've had so far between credit institutions and citizens and companies that took credit that it was all one vasal relationship where you were simply tied to the bank, you couldn't get away from it, you couldn't get out of the way of that loan that he was in. You've suffered the simple conditions you had, and if you ever wanted to leave, then you had to pay the fee, and it's a good thing there won't be any compensation now, and if you find a more favourable lender, you can cross. When I said it was a vasal relationship, I'd say it was almost a slave relationship. It was pretty much in the slave system. You're my slave, you've got to act like I say. If you don't like it eventually, you can leave, but if someone else pays you off, buy it from me. That's how it's been around so far with the loans. You're mine, you have to pay under those terms you signed. Now, if you want to go to another slave owner, you'll pay me a fee or a penalty for leaving. That was really incorrect, if we could even talk about correctness and honesty. They don't do it to be correct and fair, they do it to make as much money as they can, but that's why they need to be prevented, and we're doing it now. And two more sentences around, yes and about maximizing interest. Finally, it regulates or maximises effective interest as much as it can be, and effective interest for our people who don't understand it, usually people don't understand professional terms. So that's the total cost of the price of the movement, so how much does it cost you, how much is the price of that loan, so including interest and the cost of processing and rewards, and all that and the deposit you usually give without interest or at very low interest, so when you add it all up, it usually costs more than the actual interest. So now the effective interest and the total cost of the loan is maximised and it's good that it's finally prescribed so it doesn't really go into interest. In any case, progress is, more order is being introduced and citizens and economies are being protected, banks are being placed in a position that they have to be more responsible, that they may earn a little less than before, but why not, because only so far have they made good money and the citizens and the economy have suffered and paid for it. And that's why this change is good. She's not targeting anyone, she's simply introducing more order. The truth God is worth this provision in Europe for 3 years, 4, which is irrelevant to our banks, which are mostly foreign banks, i.e. bank owners are mostly foreign, foreigners, foreign legal entities from the EU that are already 4 years old. They didn't think to apply it to us. But here, now that we're entering the EU, they have to accept it. If they wanted, they could have done it before. So they could behave the way they behave in their home countries in Italy, Germany, Austria, they could start to behave both code and before they wanted to, they didn't. But now we're going to force them to start acting the way they have to in other orderly systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15223	Thank you, Your Honor. And the HDZ club and the respected representative Martina Dalic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15224	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister. Well, of course, in this law, this segment is most interesting about how to determine variable interest rates. So here's the commentary of this bill, and let me actually share with you some knowledge and experiences of the former banker, because today in law, this means we're giving us parameters based on what we have to determine the interest rate. And so far they were and there was such a demand for banks. It existed through CNB regulations and these requirements emerged after the current Credit Institutions Act was passed precisely because of what counterpart Jelusic was saying because it was a general movement in Europe towards greater consumer protection. But the road to hell is often filled with good intentions. And here is a good intention to protect consumers and to define their rights in a certain way. However, I would like to draw your attention to the timing. This proposal, which defines and needs to be determined, means some reference element, some variable element that can be interest on the foreign currency and then some other parameters, this proposal appears at the time when these reference elements are at their minimum. So euribor is near zero today. In 2007, just before the start of the crisis, the eurobor was 5% annual. That's what I want to draw your attention to. It's good intentions, but today by prescribing that interest rates have to be determined by this formula, we prescribe a legal obligation for banks to say and enter in the contract that variable interest rates will be determined as a eurobor plus something, let's say the credit risk of the Republic of Croatia, plus the margin of the bank. In the medium term, however, if we take one moderately optimistic view that there will be a recovery of both the world and the European economy of the reference interest rates will grow. I want to draw your attention that, from the banking aspect, we here today bring a provision that regulates that in the future interest rates on these types of loans will grow. Of course, a happy environment is also possible, and it is a happy circumstance that the country's credit risk will fall, which should also be given that we will become an EU member and I hope that sooner or later we will get out of the crisis. However, I also want to tell you something else about technology. Usually this country's credit risk is taken as a fixed part of the formula because it is taken at the moment of today to reflect its current financing costs. So that's another thing. The country's credit risk could be found in such formulas, and today relatively high, found as an integral part of the fixed part of the formula by actually leaving in the variable part of this eurobor. And since the euro is with us the dominant currency by introducing this into the law we have introduced order, we can say that on the surface, but we must be aware that in the medium term we have also determined that interest rates will grow. I therefore draw the attention of the legislator, I understand that this is an urgent reading first, second and last, but I feel this need to share with you this by actually calling you to consider whether this is the right timing especially given that this is not a very irregular thing but is already regulated by the National Bank today. But we're taking an important step today and we're including this in the law, explicitly, and the law is the law. And we create space for the banks to simply wave to consumers in a year, and that draws attention to the majority of the council, and starts to explain to the credit users the interest rates change and grow, you see the growth and the eurobor. And that's what the law says. Life is like that, not at times very socially thoughtful. But when these parameters are listed here, there's something that's not in these parameters, which is passive interest rates. The passive interest rate is in some way the cost paid by the bank to domestic depositors and the problem of passive interest rates in us is a particular problem and I would not open it now. But there's no such thing as no such thing. To bind the bank's actual credit price at the cost of passive interest per year, which may, for example, pay the euro in some period of time, be the result of the removal of that unnatural difference paid to the euro in Croatia compared to what is paid in the euro-issue countries. With us you can simply get better interest on the euro than in Germany. I also want to share with you the skepticism that the law can oblige consumer opposition to change interest. I bet you'll find small letters in contracts that say the consumer has denied the right to protest at the level of interest. I wouldn't last any longer, I understand the proposal's intentions and wishes, and at this point he's offering something that, at least nominally, means the introduction of order. But I also draw your attention to the way real life is going on and that everyone here in this house has to be aware, especially the parliamentary majority who will undisputedly vote for this law, that this also votes that in the medium term interest rates on this type of loan will actually grow. And I wanted to finally comment on this amendment. The amendment says the consumer has the right to return early loans without obligation to pay compensation. There is something missing in this amendment, which is early repayment of the loan in part or in full. It is continuously assumed that the person x will repay the credit in full, i.e. the opportunity to repay the loan by taking credit in another bank. But why would that person have to repay the loan in full? Maybe he's got some savings, maybe he's inherited something from someone, maybe he's got some real estate, and he'd like to get rid of some of his credit commitment as much as he can. You cut the war, you extend your deadline, anything. This amendment doesn't allow it. The way it's written because it's going to be taken by the banks as a payment of the loan in full, at least that's my opinion. Since he's talking about early repayment. Of course, we are all aware that the refinancing and early repayment of credit and credit in another bank exposes the man to a series of loan costs in another bank. But I think given the current situation, the fact that people took loans to a significant extent when interest rates were relatively low. If this was a correct attempt to open up some of the people who can or can't carry the payload anymore, a small space to reduce their credit obligations. But I would suggest, I would advise if you could make this amendment clearer in terms of early, in terms of partial or total loan payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15225	Thank you, too, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative, Ivo Jelusic, has been reported to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15226	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Dalic, you said about this: "It should be warned that there will be an increase in interest because this will be the situation on the market and that we are passing the law at that point, if it should be passed.". Of course, even though he comes, we don't know if there's a interest increase, but if he does, then he'll come independently of this law. But the law only protects even more consumers. Therefore, this law will not affect, there is an increase, it will come independently of this law. But if he comes, let's protect the consumer, that's the first thing. And the other thing, here you were saying, that if there was an increase in the eurobond, credit risk of the country, etc. That's why interest will increase. But in this case I see you speaking, you were the president of a bank, the president of the administration, speaking from your banker. I speak as a representative. But the bank could also cut its margin, it could cut its profits so it lowers interest, we don't talk about it as if it's a sacred letter in that it can't be touched. The eurobor will increase, credit rating will increase, but the bank must continue to earn as much as it earns, its costs must remain as they must remain, it must not be touched. And it can be touched, let it be reduced if it increases here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15227	And, of course, the reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15228	Well, colleague Jelusic, the point of my debate was to try to bring a part of the way the banker thinks to you as agents and all of us who deal with this responsible business. Because he's a poor borrower, he happens to be a banker, not an agent. I agree with you, if there is an increase in euribor that I did not now invent that something in the middle, it could probably happen and God forbid it eventually happens because it will mean that there has been an economic recovery. The interest will grow anyway, but what I want to draw your attention to. In this case, we legally prescribe that they must grow, give to the bankers, if you want to demagogue completely, an additional excuse. So that was the point. By introducing these provisions into the law, we legally prescribe that this change must be transferred to interest rates. If such legal provisions do not exist then there is also some freedom of competition, etc. Are your banks functioning in competition and you have now given all competitors a formal-legal formula by which they can equally increase their price. There's no need to look back at competition, because the law says some interest increases if the euro is growing. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15229	Thank you very much. We Parliamentarians who have no banking experience, we are convinced that democratic power has power... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear Deputy Boris Lalova.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15230	Mr. Vice President, it's very short on the presentation of my colleague, Dalic. To really make this part of the definition of interest rate clear is I also know very well because I just came from that sector, the way it works, the definition of interest rates. What was the initiative of this law was to clearly define that citizens know how their interest rate was formed. Here we said that there was an interest rate formation, consisting of several elements. One part is the eurobor that depends on market developments, meaning bank lending, one another, depends on first-class banks. It is 0.7 per year today, 0.4 per six-month and quarterly, etc. It moves depending on market developments, economic situation, etc. The second part you said was the risk of the state's premium. Certainly in this section is either 400 or 500 leasing points is depending on how much one is estimated to be a risk in our country. And to this comes this fixed margin, a fixed margin towards the consumer where the bank in its actual analyses, actually estimates this consumer and depending on its incomes, depending on the collateral etc. He defines that margin of his. So he can put himself together for this three-part consumer loan, he can actually do more. Is he collater, not collater, etc. Here's what's very clear to say, this is what you're now saying ok will grow Eurobor. I can now ask the opposite question, you said, and we know that in 2007, it was the Eurybor as much as it was, it came down today. I'm asking if the interest rates are down? Did the interest rates fall? No, they didn't. You know why they didn't fall? Because, euribor has fallen, and the banks are actually this part of the margin they've just returned to the level and told the clients you're left with the same. But this is the client's risk they've been changing. I'm asking if they were supposed to do that. When assessing the risk analysis, you take the entire client, eurybor, the risk of the state, the risk of the client. This part is... See today if you're from five to one if there's been a 4%. We want to tell the citizens that their consumption depends on their movements means that it is very clear in this part of the movement of the Eurybor, the citizens will follow the movement of fishermen and when there is a change in interest rates they know why it happened, they know. This is how they don't know now. Just now the bank says market conditions. We can change him as much as we want. The second risk is also known to mean the risk of the state, which means the risk of the state to finance and to finance not only investment loans but also consumer loans, what we've been talking about all along, and here you're talking about the terrible good budgeting. I wouldn't define it that way because we've said recently we're still in a deficit, stable finances also affect this part of spending, which makes you more unstable part of the finances growing you risk premium to the state. This could eventually be the growth of the interest rate in this part. So we know very clearly how to decompose the composition of the interest rate, in this part of it you said growth is going to be an interest rate. It can happen, it doesn't have to happen. Here we left the possibility of limiting consumers, and we also left the possibility that you could change the bank. But in a clear and transparent way when you enter into some credit relationship if it's about a year of movement at the annual level they're not that big... but citizens don't know this is how the eurobor happened it went up not down. What happened to him? and we just want to bring it in a transparent way if some of the parameters are changed they know and I can calculate it happened because of that I have to go somewhere to change it. But this transparency that we are trying to introduce here through this law is necessary for citizens to actually know all the parameters in a clear and transparent way when they enter certain credit relations. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15231	Thank you very much. At your presentation, respected representative Martina Dalic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15232	Yeah, right. Citizens need to know how to change the parameters and exactly what I'm talking about. By introducing these parameters at this point in time into the law is being done in favour of banks because simply the burden from them is being shifted to an objective fact. There's an increase in interest, and we're changing your interest. I don't think we should be exhausted in this larpurlarist debate, which will be or won't be, but during the duration of the loan and some business cycle, changes are happening both up and down. The timing of this with regard to the level of the euribor is not very favourable. And what I don't agree with you at all is that the budget will always be in our deficit. I think that following the Fiscal Responsibility Act, our budget will, in very clear and predictable dynamics, come into zero or in plus. That's why we passed that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15233	I'd like to know if the current interest rates for banks are favourable?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15234	Mr. Vice President, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15235	Are the current interest rates active interest rates for banks favourable? Is the bank's active interest now favourable?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15236	You want me to answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15237	No, no, I didn't hear you don't have to answer me. You're not here to answer, I'm talking for the public. I haven't heard from you or from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15238	The bank works on a margin not at interest level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15239	Thank you very much. Does the Deputy Minister want to answer? Here you go. You said so very briefly. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15240	Just for a little while. So in this section, I wouldn't want to tell the citizens if it happened that in the event of the Eurybor's fall, that they put that part on the interest margin in that part. As far as it goes up there, but in this part of the citizens didn't know when it came to the fall of the euribor, they remained the same interest. They're the same, and that's what they're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15241	Thank you very much. Let's take the debate further forward. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Šemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. For all of us, it's been known that the loaning of all kinds of residential, intended, non-purpose, consumer, decades has been a lifestyle, and without them it's never been possible to get to a house, apartment, car, vacation or a nice trip. And it was good when work was regularly paid, so there was no problem with paying off the war. Today at this difficult recession time at a time of high unemployment when both workers do not receive regular salaries, when every other pensioner has a pension of less than 2 thousand kuna credits are also raised because of the survival or payment of directors, the purchase of medicines and food or the solution to the problem of enforcement that has come due to unpaid bills or war credits. In addition to banks that are too high-interested by the citizens, a large number of any speculators using a crisis that offers loans and consumers with extremely unfavourable conditions have been multiplied. Using holes in the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act which they were not obliged to obtain from the Ministry of Finance for the provision of such services, they offer loans with interest rates that consumers are no longer able to repay after some time. As a result, many have been led to the edge of existence, many have been left without an apartment or house, and many of the activities today show how much this has taken hold of. Especially at the blow of the lender were pensioners who were unable to settle their low-income pensions for all major directors and were forced to take them. It is already known that pensioners have always paid the most regularly to receive their pension even the same day first to pay for electricity, gas, water, telephone, and other directors. If there were no up-to-date salaries of pensioners, many utility companies dealing with such services would be in big trouble. Until now, the state has done nothing to protect its citizens from both banks and the greed of those rich who only use what the law allows. We had to come at the door of the EU to be ordered in the negotiations of Directive 2008/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council to protect consumers from those who only think about their profits and how to deepen their bank account. Whether we are in favour or against the European Union, this is just one example of how someone else has to arrange for us everything we should have done ourselves, and we didn't want to or knew. This law should ensure a high level of consumer protection on the Croatian financial market and create optimal conditions both for those who give and for those who take loans. Amendments to the law bring a number of improvements that have not been made so far. In particular, this applies to the regulation of a variable interest rate where a safeguard contract provision is proposed to protect the consumer from their excessive growth. There is a need to ensure that this protection would not have the fate of a protective account in the performance where the entire pension still happens to disappear from the account of pensioners who simply because of the lack of awareness, informative non-connection of institutions or non-compliance with the procedure of enforcement remain almost without any means of life. The amendments to the law also regulate an effective interest rate which must not be higher than the interest rates set out in the Mandatory Relations Act, thereby protecting the consumer from interest rates. We still remember the famous credit cooperatives that offered a fabulous interest on the savings invested, and the gullible investors remained without much interest, but also without the principal. The state did not protect its citizens by its legal provisions either. In contrast, in companies it was a good practice to help loans where they were founded. registers of mutual assistance where union organisations have credited their union members for various needs. These amendments suggest that such trade union activities be exempt from the application of this law. As well as the best law, if there is no control over its implementation, it can be bad for the citizens. The additions to this law shall be subject to supervision in such a way as to regulate the powers of economic inspectors to act in cases of provision of consumer lending services, if they are carried out without the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The proposed keeping of records of contracted contracts will allow faster and easier control of the intended inspectors who can take administrative and criminal measures. It is good that the amendments propose that the suspension of the exemption from the application of the credit law of less than 1500 kunas which have not been covered by the law so far, as well as the provision that the provision of consumer lending services cannot be the main activity which has been the case in the case of interest-making through an ad or tempting calls attached to a tree or fence, mainly for pensioners. Due to all these good solutions in the current problem of consumer lending, the HSU club will support changes and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15243	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate, an individual debate of MPs. First one's a respected representative, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15244	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputy Minister, Director of the IRS, colleagues and colleagues. They say that the crisis is actually not necessarily a problem, that there may be an opportunity. Well, there were a lot of those in Croatia, and there were still those who caught such an opportunity, so they offered the citizens loans under very unfavourable conditions, above all at very unfavourable interest rates which were still changing. So the citizens in this general nonsense, not having too many choices, took such loans, but they certainly came very quickly and in a situation that they could not pay them back and that they had become victims of these same grampistical creditors. And that is, of course, why it is necessary to increase the level of consumer protection on the financial market, equating it with the level that it has existed for a time in countries with built consumer protection systems. In his discussion on behalf of the SDP club, too, Jelusic noted excellently that the banks, the queens operating in the home countries, had developed this system of protection, and interestingly the same protection in our country did not provide our consumers with it. This legislative proposal will make all the creditors more transparent, so those who have granted small loans and those who have approved large and bigger loans will also enter, so they are all being supervised, i.e. the whole system becomes controlled. The most important changes and additions to the laws which, in my view, will affect the safety, the higher level of consumer protection, are related precisely to a variable interest rate because there are certainly the biggest problems. According to the proposed changes and additions, the credentials are obliged to the consumer before the conclusion of the loan agreement clearly and unequivocally present the parameters which will be the basis for the correction and variable interest rates. These parameters, as we have already heard today on several occasions, can be reference interest rates such as libora or euribora, it can be a consumer price growth index, can be some similar parameters, in any case it must be the size known to the consumer, which is available to him, which is objective and whose change cannot be affected by only one party, so the believer. In particular, if the library is to grow, our consumer must count on its interest rate to be higher, so that the cost of its loan will be greater. The consumer must be alerted to all possible risks and variables of the rate depending on the variable of the parameters on which the rate is calculated. The parameters to be the basis for the adjustment of the interest rate must be specified precisely in the loan contract itself. Furthermore, the additional consumer protection element mentioned by this law is to limit the effective interest rate in such a way as to bind it to the interest rate established by the Mandatory Relations Act. Furthermore, what is very important to me is that the believer cannot unilaterally change the interest rate height and thus increase the credit price, but is obliged to consult the consumer. And that's where the government with the amendment goes one step further, so it defines this problem more precisely, so it says in case the believer has a basis for increasing the interest rate he must inform the consumer at least 15 days before making a decision to increase the rate, and gives the consumer the opportunity to react within three months in a way that he can early repay the loan without compensation. This possibility for me will not benefit many consumers but why not allow such an opportunity for those who have it, and they did not want to repay the loan precisely because the refund fees were very high. All this means that the consumer will be provided with one proactive role in the conclusion of the loan agreement, that he will be thoroughly familiar with all the elements of the credit transaction. Thus, he will not be put before the final act, or brought into a situation to sign something he does not understand or even cannot read. And not once we were in a situation where we saw that those most important elements of the contract were written in such a font that I say that it was almost impossible to read. Finally, the proposed amendments to the law have been very detailed in the jurisdiction of individual institutions regarding the supervision of the application of this law. Therefore, very precise cases are defined in which supervision is carried out by the State Inspectorate, in which cases the supervision is carried out by the Croatian National Bank and in which the HANFA is located. And let me get this straight. All of this should contribute to the more efficient protection of consumers of the same quality as it is provided in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15245	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The following has been registered for discussion by the honourable representative Ivan Racan. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15246	Thank you very much. Since I'm the last one I'll try not to cause too many replicas. I welcome the changes to the laws that go towards consumer protection, although this is the most important part of the harmonisation with European acquis and European standards. But some new instruments are being introduced, as some speakers have said, it's really sad that we haven't had them in Croatia so far. However, this law does not address the current situation for a large number of our citizens in what is called debt slavery. Citizens who have suffered by their ignorance, by their unpreparedness, whether naive to the foreign exchange clause, and this law does not help, does not change anything, and I believe that this is a very important area and that the Republic of Croatia must do something about it. We're here in an earlier discussion of a small gene of transforming that former SDK into ZAMP until today how we have a regulated system. But to this day, we have not introduced an elementary institute that has more or less all countries of the democratic and market economy, which is personal bankruptcy. It's the only way out for a large number of citizens in debt slavery. And I'm actually using this debate to call the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice, which is the most responsible to finally move in that direction. We need to bring in that institute. Let me say something about this famous foreign exchange clause that is kind of our habit and it can be difficult to change today because there are too many relationships defined and set, dependent on this exchange rate. But through personal bankruptcy, we can in some way even for the ordinary foreign exchange clause, if citizens have loans that are, for example, bigger housing loans today than they were when they were taken four, five or six years ago. The Institute of Personal Banking doesn't have to respect the foreign exchange clause. He can only respect value, so since some of the banks here have spoken on behalf, I'm not going to say it on behalf of the bankers, so the banks are going to think about whether it's worth making people pay for life, paying off their debts, or trying something with that property. What's with the flats? And that's another debate. I appeal again, do what you can. Personal bankruptcy is needed in Croatia and the only solution for a large number of citizens who are not in it, who are not in debt slavery only because of credit, but also because of a whole number of other things there is business, there are entrepreneurs, there are guarantees, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15247	Thank you, too. Does the proposaler's representative have a final word? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Here's the debate on the text of the law over. We'll vote on the law when the conditions are met. Let's go forward. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 147. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia becomes an integral part of the final proposal. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the Government's representative to plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15249	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15250	Everything? Four amendments? Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Yes.]] They become an integral part of the final proposal for the text of the law. In accordance with Article 154. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Proposal for a Legislative Committee shall give the following conclusion: - There are, in particular, legitimate reasons for the reverse action of the provision of Article 5(6) of this Act. I would like to ask the vote to come to the conclusion. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion accepted by 97 votes in favour, 1 against and 24 abstentions. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? No one. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act with 110 votes for and 3 abstentions. Thank you very much. We are now going to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on fiscalisation in cash, first reading, P.Z. No. 151. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. Those are the provisions of Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the applicant want a representative, i.e. The Government of the Republic of Croatia further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Deputy Minister, Mr. Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a lot of laws we have today. And this is one let's say cream at the end. The law on fiscalisation in cash. Thus, the proposal for a law on fiscalisation in cash seeks to introduce control in the recording of cash-paid traffic. The objective of fiscalisation is to prevent tax evasion in the area of cash, to improve tax control procedures in the control of the traffic achieved in cash, to raise the level of customer awareness of the importance of taking an account, and to curb unfair competition. According to available analyses and surveys, the area of cash traffic recording is a high level of gray economy and it is evident from the data that less than 15% of the total traffic of natural persons, craftsmen and free interests in the Republic of Croatia on the cash market. In addition, the data show that some of the activities do not have any record of cash traffic, which is unlikely in the light of the still visible cash payment. Activities in which it is generally known that cash execution payments are recorded in extremely low daily traffic, as well as low daily incomes. I'm just going to brief you on the tax administration statistics actually processed for 2010, so now I'm going to tell you by some activities how many applications were actually per branch. For example, retail trade, repair of household items, the average daily turnover reported is 734 kuna and the average daily income is 85 kuna. In restaurants is average daily traffic of 688 kuna, average daily income of 110 kuna. In bars the average daily traffic is 610 kuna, daily income 95 kuna. In catering traffic 620, daily income 100 kuna, taxi service 206 kuna daily traffic, 65 kuna daily income. Trade in small unspeakable living foods 100 kuna daily income. Construction, craft means, 108 kuna daily income. In the agriculture of 116 kuna, in the fisheries of 82 kuna. Manufacture of bread and pastry daily traffic 1824 kuna, 264 kuna average income. Production, processing and preserving of meat 1306 kuna daily traffic, daily income 134 kuna. Accounting and audit jobs 424 traffic per day, 120 kuna daily earnings. Maintenance and repair of motor vehicles daily earnings 92 kuna. Law jobs 609 kuna daily traffic, 221 kuna daily income. Hair salons 228 kuna daily traffic, 58 kuna daily income. So these are tax administration data based on the processed 112 thousand registrations of craftsmen and free professions. So these are official tax administration statistics based on processed data. So you will later in the debate to see if these data are real, if anyone can make 58 kunas a day or lawyers with 200 kuna a day for as long as it is reported whether or not they have any property. But, well, that's what you'll do in your debate. So that's your statistic. Then we'll discuss fiscalization. The Republic of Croatia is seeking to curb this phenomenon by adopting this law. The fiscalisation process is based on recommendations from EU working bodies by prescribing a fiscalisation model that allows for modern control of the issue of cash accounts, not limiting or preferring a particular software or hardware manufacturer. Obligations of fiscalisation are laid down for the natural persons of income taxpayers, i.e. crafts and free professions, natural persons of corporate taxpayers and the legal person of a corporate taxpayer. The phase of introduction 01.01.2013 of large and medium-sized entrepreneurs under the Accounting Act and of bonds carrying out the accommodation and food preparation and service activities. Why? It is precisely because the government of the Republic of Croatia has brought a 10% VAT rate in tourism. Here I will repeat the restaurant's earnings – 110 kuna and 95 kuna bars. We said we're dropping some VAT, we want to control the traffic. Since 01.04.2013, persons who have one activity of wholesale or small trade, repair of motor vehicles and undertakings carrying out the activities of free professions referred to in Article 18(2) shall mean the Income Tax Act and, since 01.07.2013, the obligation to fiscalise for others. So, according to some of our calculations, the total according to the OIB is 196,000 198 taxpayers. In order to simplify the fiscalisation procedure for certain fiscalisation bounds carried out by a small-scale activity, the concept of a small fiscalisation obligor is introduced which is considered to be natural persons, so-called natural persons. pauschalists under the provisions of the Income Tax Act. Very short, the criteria are that you are obliged not to be in the VAT system which is 85 thousand kuna this year, next year is an increase, with us not going up to 230 thousand kunas next year in the entire system, but to 150 thousand kuna and the obligor has no business and that the obligor is not in the activities of trade and catering. Small bonds of fiscalisation assure the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration a special book of accounts marked by regular numbers from which bills are issued. In this way small fiscalisation bonds issue certified accounts, but do not have additional costs of establishing a fiscalisation system such as other bonds such as the procurement of devices and software that have support for working with digital certificates, obtaining digital certificates, obtaining applications for electronic signing and connecting to the Internet, maintaining software and such. The estimated costs of fiscalisation range up to several thousand kunas. I repeat, up to several thousand kunas. So we've actually tried to actually see how it was handled in the environment, we've defined ourselves this way so that actually these costs are as small as possible. How the performance of certain activities can also be successfully monitored through measuring sizes such as measuring consumption, excluding the need for fiscalisation of the same activity, the obligation to fiscalise is released. We also want to hear your opinion on this proposal that can be completed by the second reading. The law creates assumptions that the introduction of fiscalisation makes maximum use of the envisaged procedures to ensure data for the successful implementation of part of tax control. Therefore, the provisions on the content of the accounts are further regulated in order to use the data to monitor the work of employees in the part of the length of working time. In addition, for the sake of successful enforcement of tax control, a way of numerating issued invoices is prescribed to enable effective monitoring of all invoices issued. The fiscalisation shall be carried out in a way that the fiscalisation obligation is obliged to forward each account prior to issue to the Tax Administration by using established Internet connections. The account records a tax administration certificate which allows any customer to verify whether the account is actually registered to the IRS. In order for the fiscalisation obligation to carry out the process, it must issue an account through customised payment devices that support digital signing as well as an Internet connection for data exchange. Such verifications shall be carried out by delivery of daily reports of each account. The law also stipulates that if a connection is interrupted, the device malfunctions and in other similar situations. In order to implement the fiscalisation, taxpayers must obtain a satisfactory device and software support, establish a link and obtain certificates while the Tax Administration needs to establish a central system. It is important to stress that the user does not commit to a specific hardware or software solution which leads to freedom of competition, means no monopoly. It also encourages the development of electronic business and allows a large number of fiscalisation compulsorys to retain existing fiscal devices. For the implementation of this law, the cost of establishing a fiscalisation system in the first year is 13 million kuna, and from the next two years 15 million kuna. Our estimates were that in the first part of the year there should be some effect of increasing the payment of 500 million kuna while in some later years up to billions of kuna. Finally, it should be noted that the fiscalisation process in cash is one of the important steps in curbing the grey economy in the Republic of Croatia. According to some research in the gray economy in the European Union, Croatia is taking an unfamous last place with a share of the grey economy of 29.5% of gross domestic product or 13.5 billion euros, or around 100 billion kuna. Only Bulgaria with 32.3% of GDP is behind us. According to the same sources of activity with the largest share of the grey economy are construction, catering and restaurants, and trade. It's similar in Croatia. Tax evasion has an impact on the overall social economic development of the state, and ultimately reduces the standard of living for all citizens. Once again in the end, this information I gave you about the share of the grey economy in the Republic of Croatia is a data from independent research that monitored the level of the entire European Union. Among which they put the Republic of Croatia. We had such research, the last one we had in 2005 where it was actually prescribed, so there was one in 2000 in 2005 where we were in some percentages of 8 to 10%. In this European Union survey, it means that it is debated when we are actually the last time and when I was actually on the Council of Finance Ministers in Brussels where there is actually a different discussion of these data. They don't actually experience us in that part like we have the part that we showed that we have about 10%. According to this survey and other countries, the type of Germany has a 17% stake. So Italy has about 21%. So these are the ratios, so they're not put like that, they've put the ratios of all the European Union countries. I told you that Bulgaria has 32%, the Scandinavian countries also have about 25%. So we're pointing out, so this data that we actually managed to get one... research based on the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the way intensities of this fiscalization is exactly that part, one part of suppressing the gray economy, where we would actually have to expand the tax base in an adequate way. So, to expand the base of people who pay taxes, which would be a prerequisite for tomorrow that we can finally move towards lowering those taxes. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia today, a small number of people pay a lot of taxes. We want to expand that base, so the tax burden and ultimately lower the tax burden so that both the economy and consumption can move in this direction. It's economic policy, which we're trying to do. To expand the base, this is one of the conditions where we expand the base. I showed you the data so you tell me if, these are the statistics from the IRS, how much they actually live on the ground, and then we'll actually talk about the entire economic policy programme, in fact, then you'll actually see what the goal is. Expand the base, cut taxes, to ultimately actually give breath and economy and actually for the whole investment process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15253	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Two replicas have been reported to your opening statement. First is Honorable Representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15254	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister Lalovac said that the cost of fiscalization would not significantly burden taxpayers. And as far as I know, information houses and electronic equipment companies are already counting on the turnover of 400 million kuna, which is actually an additional obligation, a commitment for taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15255	Thank you very much. Does he want a reply to the replica, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15256	Later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15257	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, Mr. Deputy Minister said one thing that I think is very dangerous, if it's not based on facts, it's the share of the gray economy in the gross domestic product. And now I'm going to say why. The Economic Institute has worked for the purposes of the Ministry of Finance and you have these materials in the macroeconomic analysis department. And the last time it was done, then their assessment, which was made by a very conservative method because it was said to have 16% share of the grey economy and is precisely said by the activities and you can see how certain processes are developing in Croatia economically. This is how certain activities fall and others grow. But why did I answer the line? All 10 new members of the European Union, when they entered the European Union or just before, had to correct their gross domestic product for the share of the grey economy. Even though we're acting the way we're acting right now, to say that we have 29% which is not based on anything, and if we have to do our own correction of the gross domestic product for 29%, you know what's the sign of equality behind that? By that amount, we will reduce our ability to withdraw from the EU funds. That's why in these grades we have domestic institutions that do evaluations. We need to be very careful, very careful, because, unfortunately, they can be abused. Not wanting to reduce all of what the deputy minister said, but this is the saying in Croatia that the share of the grey economy is 29%, if the economic institute in its materials four years ago said it was 16%, so let's say it was 20%. He didn't grow up at all during this period. And when you look at how he was moving, in the moments of the great expansion of construction, the largest share of which, road construction and so forth, the largest share of the gray economy was in construction. As the good tourist season began, the share of the grey economy in fishing and catering increased. So, everything has its own reasons why certain things happen, but I repeat, let's not use data that is not based on concrete analysis and on concrete methods.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15259	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica of the respected Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15260	I just, in fact, pointed out in the opening section that according to some research, means research that actually exists, where the Republic of Croatia does not actually process. They are not processing the Republic of Croatia but talking about the problems of the gray economy in Europe. So in Europe they say and here they say that in Europe is actually a problem, where in fact 2.2 billion euros in Europe is a problem. And then one small part of that statistical part of the research actually because we are a member actually touching the Republic of Croatia. I just said in some document that exists, so we didn't do it, so in a document where the European Commission actually ordered it. So they tried, I know that different methods are assessment of the gray economy. I certainly agree. I'm just saying that this problem exists with us, is he 29%, is he 16% entirely, agreeing to the calculation in this part, absolutely agree with you. I just want to say that this problem exists with us, that it exists according to these data, actually that it is also recorded and that the government's goal is actually in that part of the gray economy to try to actually reduce it as much as possible. I know that even according to one debate, where they were very uncomfortable in the European Commission when one member is based on this document, so I'm telling you they actually told them that they have a very high share of the gray economy, there they spoke to the Council of Ministers where the country also said that we don't have that share we have a much smaller share. I will tell you that only, this is what I wanted to say that unfortunately the document exists from the EU where it is spoken about the EU and not Croatia. But since we're a candidate in that part, there are some estimates. Are they correct if they're not right in that part anyway? I'm not going in anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15261	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget want to present reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Privi is a club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15262	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister and Assistant Minister. Croatian Labourists are for every introduction of order and control as well as punishing all those who do and work tax evasion. The grey economy allows for the illegal wealth of individuals and the fraud of the state. Individuals who do not pay taxes in tax evasion should be put to the end if that is how they damage the state, which is the lack of funds missing in the budget. But most importantly, it took this government nine months to start and the problem begins to solve to end cheating on those who don't pay bills or those who work with double cash registers. In this way, individuals have achieved an illegal benefit to the harm of the state. In the very proposal for a law in Article 3, it is prescribed who the bonds of fiscalisation are and these are craftsmen or crafts equal to the activities and activities of the free professions. Article 5 is prescribed and a list is given which are not considered fiscalisation bonds while Article 6 confers powers on the Minister for the Liberation of Certain Activities. It is already evident from this proposal that there is a certain uncertainty in the application of this law. In nine months this year, according to this data we could read about 800 million kunas didn't end up in the budget. On the other hand, we say that we don't have enough money, we want to sell state property, we raise taxes, we announce big layoffs, and yet we're passing some laws by emergency procedure, like the Law on Cemeteries, while these laws, which concern the state of stability of the budget, are practically time-consuming for them. I don't think this law should go through two readings, but I think it was long ago that he was supposed to be here in the benches in the Assembly about him to argue and he started to apply himself and somehow all taxpayers were to be placed in the same position. According to this data we received, the government expects this bill to provide about 500 million kuna in the first year of the second year about a billion kuna. This is not small money, and it could probably happen if in the meantime there are no certain unfavourable operating conditions that could lead to the closure and closure of entrepreneurship, so even then this data will be completely different. We know that we are among the countries with the highest taxes, and from next year we announce the introduction and new taxes it is a property tax. It will clearly add to some groups of citizens, clearly not those who have but will practically suffer the middle layer of people who are slowly disappearing and most citizens are in some way polarizing on the extra rich and very many of those poor. Due to all these burdens part of the craftsman is in a very awkward situation at the edge of a profitable business. In this way, some also announce the closing of the trades because they say they will not be able to survive the fulfilment of all obligations to the state. And the most important thing about this introduction is that the craftsmen will be additionally burdened. Clearly, any suspension of the state is not allowed but the question is whether it is smarter to facilitate and disburse the business with the control of the performance of all obligations towards the State. This way we can only guess what's actually going to happen in a year or two from the beginning of the application of this law. Furthermore, we have to ask ourselves, is this the best control model? Will it achieve the intended results or have certain consequences? It is a bit of a funny provision of 500 kuna reward that awaits one who reports the service provider for not issuing an account, and let's call this form a prize game in some way only later will it be known because it will be prescribed by the Minister's rule. I'm afraid we'll compare that rescue measure in a few years with the austerity measures on aromatized water or on flomasters. With this game, we expect citizens to be cops and clearly in their indifference, because we have over 300 thousand unemployed, they should try and rat out for some kuna to earn. At the same time well-paid for this job will sleep winter sleep and check text messages in their chairs to do their part of the work for which they receive good pay. We can expect that a people in need may say that with cell phone savings they can work hard and earn what they swear as responsible citizens. In this way, it will be easier to pay for heating and electricity, and it will also be able to do someone else's job that is better paid in any case. For example, in neighbouring BiH, they have introduced and implemented a fiscal cash register system that allows the Tax Administration to register each account at the time it was issued by the service provider and do not need snitches for 500 kuna. In this way, it makes it impossible for the service provider to do so after working time, reduce or delete the account and thereby tax evasion. Serbia, Macedonia and Bulgaria have also introduced such a system, and Slovenia begins with December 1st this year. In our case, the bag seems to need to be filled as much as possible in the short term, and long-term better projects are not considered, which in some ways could have been better quality and shown to be more successful in the longer term. It is not disputed that it is absolutely necessary to introduce certain rules and civilization standards in domestic fiscal policy. Cheating the state must be and stop national sport. Developing a culture of screening for small money is not a way of introducing order and regulation, but a method of turning chaos into chaos. We will see how many cases of false reporting, personal revenge on the service provider or other attempts at manipulation or planting. I fear that the resolution of such a chaotic situation will cost us far more than finding structural solutions, and the flow of money into the budget will be much less than expected. It is crucial in some regulated state that its highly trained employees be the ones to keep order and enforce the law. Subsidising hungry citizens for a few kunas, snitches and other people's jobs could be the defeat of the state's institutions. The Croatian Labourists eventually believe that we could find better solutions, and the issue of cheating on accounts and tax evasion with the fiscal register could have been a better and better-quality solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15263	Thank you, too. SDP club of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister, Director of the IRS, colleagues and colleagues. The fiscalisation is defined in cash as a process of better monitoring tax collection, as one of the simplest definitions. It was designed in Italy at the time to quote it as the country with the biggest tax evasion. It is most commonly used by countries in transition. The countries introduce different fiscalisation models as a measure of supervision of the issue of cash business accounts, i.e. accounting and tax returns. Introduces so-called. The fiscal cash registers or the establishment of an account control system that leaves bonds with the possibility of its own software solution and within the European Union are led by discussions on the need to introduce fiscalisation in cash traffic, and are given and suggested to carry out an open procedure, not to ensure a monopoly of hardware and software manufacturers, and then it is necessary to say to a colleague that, on this very trail, our law on fiscalisation in cash and indeed such enormous costs will not be, because a large number of future fiscalisation holders will already have a solution to this process. In Croatia, we have a problem with tax collection and through the gray area of business in some activities and through the non-payment of the tax and other government taxes already reported as a result of the indifference, but also of the deliberate non-payment of obligations. The announcement, and now the publication of taxpayers is actually an attempt to introduce order in this segment of business. Non-payment of taxes or tax evasion other than criminal liability also means unfair competition, reducing budget revenues at all levels, not only of the state, which are used for general social needs and indirectly affecting the level of tax rates of regular salaries, i.e. total tax burden. The introduction of fiscalisation does not only mean an insight into the tax liability, i.e. the accounting and tax application, but also raises what is said in the context of the customer's awareness that they can control whether the amount of tax paid in the account is actually shown and recorded in the Tax Administration as an obligation. It can be said that this is also the type of consumer protection because it makes it impossible for the tax charged by the buyer to end up with the taxpayer, not in the budget. At the same time, such a procedure improves tax supervision and reduces tax evasion, making it more difficult to carry out direct control of the taxpayers. Namely, for those who do business only with cash, the tax collector should sit down and record every order in a particular local, or in a certain area, which is almost impossible to do. In the light of the bill's proposal, calculations of average daily traffic in certain activities are based on income tax returns which, even without a larger analysis, indicate that there is a certain level of evasion, i.e. non-innovation of income. The law stipulates that bonds of fiscalisation are natural and legal persons, taxpayers of income tax or profit, and are bonds of issue of cash traffic accounts. They only stand out so-called. small fiscalisation bonds which are determined by income tax in a flat-rate amount which will issue accounts related to a special book, previously certified in the Tax Administration. The exceptions are also provided for in Article 5, but also for the possibility that, on the basis of the specificity of certain activities, the Government extends the exceptions of the fiscalisation debtors because that is something we are just introducing and only when the application itself will show what else should be done. A Article 9 also provides for additional information which must contain an account, i.e. in Article 19, the content of the daily report to be delivered no later than the beginning of the following working day to the Tax Administration. The tax payer, i.e. the fiscalisation undertaking, is obliged to obtain a certificate issued to him by the financial agency, to adapt the charger to the requirements of the fiscalisation which a large part already owns, to test it with the Tax Administration and to provide an imported account book in case of termination of the work of the payment device, or if it is a small fiscal obligor. The law provides for an obligation to issue invoices through electronic payment devices which must enable the use of software support for digital signing of account elements and links to electronic data levels with the tax administration. When issuing a cash traffic account, the digitally signed account elements shall be checked in the Tax Administration and, if all the elements of the account that are prescribed are entered, as well as the digital signature, the Tax Administration will determine the unique identifier of the account which means the actual recording of the tax liability. This data exchange, i.e. control will then enable the print of an account, and based on the unique identifier of an account it is possible to verify whether the tax paid by the buyer is registered in the Tax Administration. Therefore, the introduction of fiscalisation will be carried out gradually from the beginning of 2013 to 1.7.2013 when all bonds will be covered. The introduction of fiscalisation means a certain cost for taxpayers, but the benefit is not only greater than the registration of taxes but also the introduction into order of the gray area of business and consumer protection that the tax which pays indeed and ends in the place for which it is intended. There has been a lot of debate about the technique of implementation of fiscalisation, but we believe that at today's level of information and minimal information literacy this should not be a problem. The SDP Club will accept the proposal of this law in its first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15265	Thank you, well-respected MPs. The next is Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club and respected representative Martina Dalic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15266	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. In fact, I'd start my own debate where my esteemed colleague Zgrebec stopped, and she actually stopped talking about expenses. In fact, the deputy minister expressed expectations about the effects on tax payments that can be expected from this law. However, this law also undisputedly imposes costs and what I would like to draw attention to, in fact, to the fact that there are a fairly good number of arguments that suggest that, in fact, the social cost, i.e. the net amount between the benefits for the state budget and the costs for the taxpayers of fiscalisation could be either zero or possibly at the expense of the debtors. Therefore, this law is undeniably an additional obligation, in fact, an instrument which collects the fulfilment of the tax obligation because additional conditions are prescribed for taxable persons and cannot be avoided in order to meet the tax obligation properly. Therefore, when the tax burden, as it is, does it increase, does it decrease, it is also necessary to keep an eye on the costs incurred if you are to meet the tax obligation in order. And they're part of the tax burden. What I would really like to establish, and I would ask Mr. Deputy Minister, in fact, to explicitly comment on and confirm what I read from the law, and what actually all speakers have bypassed in a certain way. Obligators of the Fiscalisation Act are not only the activities listed by the Deputy Minister, who, after which he read and stated that those who are in the category of craftsmen, therefore small taxpayers that there is a suspicion of some tax avoidance. Obligations of the Fiscalization Act are all from the greatest to the smallest. All of them, including the largest number of those who meet the tax obligation neatly and willingly with a higher or less will, shall be subject to an additional cost. Mine in a certain way, and I think a lot of those here and work experience and life experience tell us that the largest number of taxpayers are willing and ready and makes it orderly to meet their tax obligations. With this law, they all go linearly in the same way and all of them are forced to increase costs. So from the biggest retailer in us not to name him here to a little butcher shop in some Dalmatian place. For all of them, the system is prescribed that, at the time of the settlement of the transaction at the cash register, the account must be sent to the Tax Administration, it must be granted approval and can then be issued. This means that all these people have to adapt their software, they have to adapt their hardware, they have to establish an Internet connection if it's not there. She said the assistant minister on the board that the IRS has more or less determined that everyone has a computer. Maybe, but what, at what rate, he connects. What it's gonna look like, how long it's gonna take. These are practical issues which, with due respect, do not be angry with business and will interfere most with the business of those who are a regular taxpayer. It might be interesting here in the context of this debate as the deputy minister cited activities that dominate or extract craftsmen and small entrepreneurs from these activities, saying that they do not essentially report their traffic. It might be interesting to discuss the big one. Does the IRS really believe that, on tax, the largest taxpayers who are the largest retailers do not pay their obligations regularly, I don't want to use any harsher word. I don't believe it because the big system is arranged for the owners of that big system. He protected himself by editing that system. The large system can neither function in this way, because the issue of ITs that have produced some software that may have non-taxable bags should also be opened. And I repeat, by linearly imposing this on all taxpayers, economies and costs are imposed and such that the information industry rubs its hands. So we were able to read in the press what the information industry estimates how many hundreds of millions of kunas of revenue they will achieve because this law will impose some obligation. Their income, someone's expenses. I ask if this is the most effective way to increase the way and degree of control of their cash traffic for certain activities. I can give you a suggestion right now. In this law, in at least a surprising way to me is listed as a non-cash, i.e. as a cash instrument of cash traffic. A card is a couple of excellencies instrument of security traffic because from my account it takes off the account of whoever I pay, cash is gone. It is also possible to imagine a system where it is said that there is no execution of cash transactions worth more than 200 or 300 kuna. This solves both dentists and doctors and various free professions and so on. A similar goal may be achieved in a cheaper way. On the other hand, imagine this system that's shown here, it's pictured as pretty good at the theory of an ideal model in which everything works. The accounts travel to the IRS, get approval, print the bill, and it's all very nice and very fast. But imagine that this means that this system is going online 24 hours a day. This means that the IRS will also have to have services that work 24 hours a day. Because gas stations work at night. I suppose the IRS understands it's a duty to do everything that this system functions smoothly. I'm familiar with the information sophistication of the IRS, and I wonder if the IRS can even answer the degree of IT sophistication that it imposes on itself and others here. Because I'm comparing this to the payment system. The pay traffic works in cycles. No payment traffic involving 35 banks, CNB, FINA that gives the platform does not function online 24 continuously. So as this is about first reading, I would also suggest this debate so that it really thinks about how this system will fit into real business. Because why, a trivial example, why does this system in all taxpayers even those most sophisticated cause costs? Because the account's content is changing, for example. So if you have the most sophisticated software system today, you still have to have the cost of changing it because it changes the content of the account compared to what the VAT Act prescribes. What happens when the system falls? Now there's a really amazing process going on. Within 2 days, the system must be established. All right. As the system goes down, the taxpayer issues accounts for those in the book that the IRS has designated in some way. And that's okay. However, when the system is lifted, the taxpayer is obliged to enter all these accounts into the system and forward them to the Tax Administration. So it's some sort of manual job. And after that, the IRS will give him back the I.D. that he is manually obliged to rewrite to each of these accounts. I don't know, I guess it's an effective administration. I don't think so. It's just that it's just making things harder for me. And when we assume that such a system is in place, then a daily report should be sent at the end of the day. And what are you going to send a daily report if you've been online all day in the exchange of data with the IRS? So what I see in the two main areas of the weakness of this law is the first fundamental, essential and important question of whether the effects of this law are expected to be greater than the costs that this law imposes on the entire economy, the entire private sector, and which at this point is certainly not easy to meet. What we're going to do, the man's gone, he's in no condition, and he comes in and says I'm paying my taxes neatly, so prove it to me and look at everything, and I'm saying I pay everything neatly, but for the fulfillment of this novelty, I don't have any money, I don't have any funds. What will the IRS respond to such a taxpayer? I don't care, I guess. The law is like that, so please make sure you adapt to the law. Before I move on to another self, therefore, really in the best faith and intent of the legislator, I suggest that a detailed analysis be made of how, and at what costs, such a system will fit into real life and real business? I remind you, imagine a system that has to work 24 hours without error, without falling, and quickly. Imagine the cash registers of the largest retailer for Easter where 100 people stand in line and the system falls and then says the trader can't issue you an account, please wait for us to lift the system. The second aspect of what I consider problematic with this law is the issue and the technical legal solutions that I have here instructed, how the process takes place, what happens when the system falls, what amount of administration this law requires in that case. Therefore, the last time we think about possible solutions, it is certain that information technology gives this imagination at will, and I see that here people who are close to the IRS have played an important role in this way, but the task of the Ministry's leadership and leadership is to assess what is realistic, which can't, which is more expensive than the final result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15267	Thank you, too. Now first we'll hear two replicas. First respected representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15268	Thank you, Vice President. You have devoted most of your discussion to the weaknesses of this legislative proposal. The first weakness is like you said, the additional cost of the economy. What needs to be said is that the cost of obtaining hardware and software needed for fiscalisation will be tax-recognised by taxpayers. And the other thing, fiscalisation had to be resorted to precisely because bonds don't pay tax debts. Therefore, there would be no cost of this expenditure at all if the taxpayers had properly paid taxes. And the other weakness you were talking about, so it's your skepticism regarding the informational willingness to do this job. So this job will be done by APIS IT in an informative sense. d.o.o. Which is known to be, so we all know how many very complex jobs she's done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15269	The replica will be answered by a respected representative of Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15270	Well, that's right, you clearly recognized the highlights of what I was saying, but the central point of our thinking is what we've been discussing for a long time. We're starting from different points of view, you and the legislator are starting from an implicit assumption that no one in this country pays anything. And that is why it is necessary to bring legal measures that go linearly across the whole economy to everyone. I don't know if 107.5 billion kunas of government budget revenue fell out of the sky. And when you take linear measures to the whole economy, then the cost of doing business, the difficulty of doing business, the question of the entrepreneurial climate and everything we discuss arises. So what I'm saying is that it is necessary properly and always, and it is the Ministry of Finance's job to absolutely insist on carrying out its mandate, to collect income, etc. But that's why he has to choose the instruments of appropriate time. And today we are in a crisis that is going on and where these trends are getting worse because of these measures. It is the essence and scale of the debate, adapt the instruments of time, the demands of time, the depth of crisis and find one reasonable environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15271	The respected Joseph Bencic will be replicated as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Dalic, at one point, you said someone would have to work 24 hours at the IRS. Well, you've been in the IRS for the last two years now, there's been an E-tax project. You can send the VAT form at 2:00 a.m. if you want. Send it, answer back that you are, that you received this VAT form. No one should be on duty in the system or in the computer. So it already exists in the IRS, that kind of work. And I don't see any problems at all, especially in this part of information about the work of the IRS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15273	Reply to the replica of MP Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15274	Imagine it's midnight now and imagine that I have a buyer here in front of me and that unfortunately the system has fallen and the IRS has fallen. I want that relationship established now, so I want there to be someone I can call and who can intervene in the system's correction. As it seems with card houses, because when the system goes down there, you call someone. So it's one of the aspects of this problem. Because I'm giving you a continuous example of payment traffic. That it's that simple and possible. The payment traffic which is far more technical, informatively sophisticated because it has been developing for decades not only with us but also abroad, that it is so simple all payment transactions would be online and would not take place in circles.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15275	Thank you very much. It'll be very easy for us to imagine it's midnight, we may not even have to imagine it. Now, on behalf of the proponent, Deputy Minister of Finance, respected Boris Lalovac, answered the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to react to this statement of yours you said was a crisis, it's still, it's deepening because the government is trying to introduce order. Okay, we're conceptually different in our policies, okay, just to be clear here. That the crisis continues because we're trying to bring order. Okay. The other thing, we talked, we talked to the big taxpayers in this case traders and talked only to the big trade chains and we're working very intensively on that cooperation right here in this part. Informants and our houses, in fact, and from trading houses that these things don't happen in this part, technically. However, I would like to separate two things. One is technical, I agree the establishment of a system is quite complicated, there will be problems. We've said that we're going to fight these problems, we're going to engage means not only our informers but the entire part of the industry that actually tries in this part and infrastructure actually Internet connections. So through the whole country. So we're actually going to try and get the operators to the places where the connection didn't come in, actually the Internet connection, that they're coming in. However, I'd just like to conceptually see if we agree on that. It's just high costs, because I've been reading your report in quite detail about curbing the gray economy. It's precisely the high cost of entrepreneurs being in this case today, because we have too much "repressive apparatus", we have too many inspectors waiting on the side to see if any entrepreneur is actually going to report something or not. That's exactly what this is about, and you know what happens then, when one such report is finished, then it says we need more people. Where are these people coming from? They come to the public administration, the state administration, the employment. And we're actually spinning in one circle, we have a very large share but we have even more people who control them. Well then we have even more, one part not charged we have even more of them trying to catch them. And that's the only thing I'm trying to say is I'm trying to think in the opposite direction. Okay. You're thinking about this, you need to get more jobs, you need more on the road, you need to watch even more if they're paying taxes. We say no. We need to use new technologies, when we need to use new technologies that are actually going in the opposite direction where we're going to say that it's an initial cost that we said was tax-recognized which we said we were actually looking for the simplest experience that we weren't buying cash registers that someone was funding, so on existing systems over the computer we tried to connect to the tax administration in the cheapest way where up to a few thousand kunas we tried the total cost for that entrepreneur. However, we will also say that we will no longer use our entire apparatus that we will use people for much more quality purposes than not to say that it is waiting on the side when he will issue an account or will not issue an account. What did we turn inspectors into? That's what it's about, our people are going to use better jobs than he has to wait to sit in a cafe for 10 hours, and he's going to issue an account or not. We're going back to the system. Because using new technologies, we're going to cut costs in the end, entrepreneurs are going to pay less because we're going to have a smaller state administration less cheap communication in this way, and that means we're going to try to use both new technologies and new systems just to make less of these entrepreneurs ultimately pay. Because it's so fake to tell them that you won't pay, pay through these inspectors, which is on the bill, they pay. So in this direction, and that part of the tax administration will go a little bit repressive, but we want everyone involved in the system. We in tourism say there will be a VAT 10%, yes, my people will be 10% but we want people to start reporting traffic, and then we can talk about another reduction in some other rates tomorrow. We give very large amounts from the budget and on the other hand we don't know what the effect is. Do you know how much we give for agriculture and how many have you recorded how many have been reported to have been sold in certain products? But we're giving very large subsidies out of the budget. So we're trying to put in order that part of the country that gives a part of the incentive of the subsidy that it can control it. I think it's the right of every country, state to establish a system in this way and thus reduce costs and thus we can re-enlarge incentives. Unfortunately, what you're saying is that your part of the policy that I'm not going into means we're conceptually different and we're going in the opposite direction going in that way but don't create that now here we are now remembered and hit 2,000 kunas and hit those entrepreneurs and that nobody's saying what you said as if we said nobody pays the tax. I'm asking you now, you're talking like everyone pays a tax, so you're acting 98%. 98% of everything is beautiful and beautiful. I didn't say that in this part nobody pays. I said there's a part where we'll try to fight actively involved in solving that problem. So, please, in that context and look at this part of the proposal, not to go to some cheap to go now we're going to raise costs because here we are and because of the continued part of the crisis. I don't think I understand that part of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15277	Replica. Dear Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15278	Well, look, buddy, I didn't tell you that the crisis is continuing because the government is introducing order, I told you that the crisis is deepening because the government is running an economic policy that leads to an increase in tax burden and tax costs. That's two different things. Because when you asked me all these questions, and I ask you, and where are you the effects of that order, and where are you because it has nothing to do with the order of VAT increases by 2%, the introduction of dividend taxes, the increase in electricity prices, gas prices, heating I don't see any connection to order. The order is being introduced and operated elsewhere. I guess it's a better organization, some less-cost service, and it would be my turn, and here it is, and to conclude here, there's already been a conversation. You always want to enter into a demagogue debate as you introduce this so-called "demagogue." Orders have great effects because it's a mess before. He said Shuker you reported that after the release of the list, you charged 100 million kuna of tax debt. I'm not going in at all how tight the interest is, but you want to tell me if you're telling me that you wouldn't have charged that 100 million kuna if you hadn't published the tax records. Well, of course you would, because the tax administration is working and I keep hoping that something will be charged and then it will be booked and shown, of course, as the payment of the oldest liabilities. It's getting late here, buddy, so let's not kid ourselves. It's one thing to tell each other things that have nothing to do with reality. We here have a legal proposal that is undeniable at this point in time for the entire economy to increase the cost of fulfilling the tax obligation. And you haven't explained to me what I am as an orderly taxpayer if I say anything neatly paid from A to Z for years and I will still pay you but I don't have the money to carry out this innovation. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15279	Time. At the last minute, a respected representative, Ante Babic, also appeared to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thought you took that right away from me, so I talked to Mr. Maric a little bit, but anyway. Here's Mr. Deputy Minister Lalovec explained it well, he gestured it, he spoke very loudly into it all, and I don't need to overpower myself. I don't doubt your good intentions and your intention to get rid of it in the best possible way, but at some point you said it was a good intention, but it's not possible, you said where it's not possible, and even in those smaller places, and that's what your colleague Dalic said to the island of Zaran, you have no telephone connections anywhere. You have to think about it, you said the Ministry of Finance would arrange to get those connections to the end user. It will be very difficult because in these places you do not have such opportunities and these investments would be too expensive. Well, here's a suggestion to think of it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15281	Thank you very much. We're continuing to discuss clubs. It's up to IDS Club and Honorable Representative Damir Cain. He's gone, so he's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. The HNS club and distinguished representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15282	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. HNS will support this first reading of the law, and although I have not responded to the replicas, I think that here the discussion has really turned into a valuable, philosophical discussion of whether or not to find some reason for something that really introduces a higher degree of order, the regularity of the entire system. We can justify some of the technical reasons or some of the costs that will have to be of course, because every new system behind it draws certain costs, which means that these are some main reasons why we are against introducing this order. I suppose that most of our taxpayers, i.e. people who are entrepreneurs who will be bound by this system, will welcome this because I think that most of our entrepreneurs are quite enough to actually, of course, on daily political needs, all our entrepreneurs are being asked questions that they are possibly thieves, that they are stealing this country because one good part, there is right colleague Dalic, one good part of our entrepreneurs and otherwise people in the system who regularly pay their liabilities, perhaps not in 100% volume but pay them in some reasonable expected proportions. But it means when you want to reduce value in any way or if you want to manipulate numbers very often, it categorizes those same entrepreneurs in some way as people who cheat, systematically cheats on the state and treats them, what I'm told by entrepreneurs, most often as thieves and as people who are under suspicion all the time. This system should, however, raise some doubts, of course not in 100% ratio. And what Mr. Shuker was talking about means about this 30% rate that Mr.... said, this is one statistical data that the European Union itself has been working for its own purposes. [[You don't understand.]] He probably has in the good part, so that value in the good part probably stands, perhaps not in the full amount and they are aware of it. I do not believe that any punishment will occur, or that in that sense we will receive less resources and the possibility of withdrawing funds if we confess some things to ourselves. About technical support related to the application of this law. I don't think today really at the time of general digitization, computerization, it's quite too much to talk about that there might be problems until the whole system works out, probably will. However, here he also spoke of a deputy implementation that would go gradually and which would correct some system errors if there were. I think that some technical story that something can't be done nowadays when every child has a cell phone and can connect to the Internet from every village in Croatia, I don't think it's entirely justified. As far as the introduction of this law is concerned, I think we are aware that some countries are in an environment that have faced such an environment, i.e. that went into the application of such a system that they have quite concrete benefits because it would not happen then. Here I am, specifically in Poland, going to the bathroom and putting in some coin of theirs, and from that device that's there, there's a bill that's obviously connected in the system. Let's say in our summer, here's what I noticed this year, on our beaches you have a whole series of showers automatically on coins that don't come out of any bills and you don't even know who's actually charging for those showers. I'm not accusing anyone, but the fact is that it exists, and I'm telling you when you get to Poland, you put a coin in the toilet and you come out of the account. It may be a bit of a caricature of the whole story, but these coins are hundreds of thousands, not to say millions, because in our tourism, let's say, we deal with millions of arrivals, or guests who come here, and then these figures are ultimately not negligible for the budget, or for taxpayers. What is another problem also highlighted by counterpart Dalic, related to a situation impossible when the system does not have technical support and when it is now awkward with the client, or the buyer and cannot be found, so I think that much more unpleasantness has been so far when our inspectors have entered, say, catering facilities, suspended work, counted inventory, state, controlled the cash register or sat in a place where everyone knew they were sitting. I think it was a much more unpleasant situation than the situation at which the system failure occurs at some point, so it takes a minute to wait while the system regenerates. So I don't think that argument either. And what I'm actually going to say is, in the end, I'm going to look for arguments in this way that at least try to put order into state finances with this law, or tax revenues, I think they lead to protecting who and what, if we don't. This is just a question now whether we want to or not. So far, this has not been wanted or could not have been done, perhaps because it was afraid of these technical difficulties, but the fact that it was not wanted and now it has come before us. I believe that most of you who are, I'm not a financier, and you who are, and you understand that, would certainly have quality some, quite concrete suggestions to improve what we have proposed, but to question whether or not it's not a good message for foreign colleagues in the opposition. The HNS will support the first reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15283	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HSU Club, a respected representative, Željko Shemper, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear deputy, colleagues and colleagues. For each country and also the largest one is the very important tax charge, which is the largest part of the charge of the State's cash register, as a good charge enables the financing of public costs and normal functioning of the entire country. Each country faces a grey economy that poses a major problem for the development of the economy and a lack of financial resources in the management of quality social policy. The awareness of the obligation to pay taxes is extremely low in Croatia, so it is no wonder that Croatia takes a very low place in the statistics on tax pay, which means that we have a high percentage of tax evasion. As a sporting discipline, tax evasion is very widespread and more orderly countries of the European Union, which is also common among top athletes. It is known where our top tennis players paid their taxes and we still remember what problems in Germany had father Stephi Graf, Boris Becker, and in Italy the famous Sofia Loren. Our athletes are good students just doing what the Western world has long adopted. Their residence is in Monaco where a lower tax is paid. Nothing less resourceful are Croatian entrepreneurs when they look at the available data on their traffic achieved, whose business and main traffic are realised by operating through an account. Detailed analysis of taxpayers as well as processed annual income tax returns from catering, crafts and service activities in cash traffic show a very low level of activity. As shown from the annual registrations in the restaurant, the average daily turnover of about 620 kuna was achieved, in the shop at a small 734 kuna. All the research carried out shows the great objectivity of such a demonstration of the traffic achieved in cash. It was also shown that surveillance is being carried out in which large energy, time, and money are being spent to detect the offender that cannot be compensated for tax sanctions. By failing to issue an account, by paying cash, by unrecognizable traffic, taxes are not paid, so the state and local budget are left without income from value added tax, income tax and income tax. As a result, private accounts of such entrepreneurs who are unwarrantedly wealthy are filled, and citizens are not even aware that non-payment of taxes means less resources for the stable functioning of public costs both the state and local communities. In order to make up for all this, other measures of tax burden must be sought which ultimately burden all citizens. By proposing this law on... The grey economy and tax evasion are being introduced fiscal cash registers already operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Italy, Sweden, Bulgaria, while Slovenia will be introducing around 11m euros by the end of this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The World Bank estimates that the Republic of Croatia loses about 8% of gross social products annually or around 28 billion kuna due to the grey economy. This assessment seems almost incredible, because it is the amount of pension expenditure in the Republic of Croatia per year. Under the Pension Insurance Act, without preferential pensions. Our tax experts also say that the growth of the grey economy and tax evasion is evident, so fiscal cash registers will certainly benefit if the rules are consistently applied. Some experts warn that fiscal accounts can only be effective if bills are issued. If there are no bills, such as some craftsmen, masters, or lawyers, then control is much more difficult because the two sides agree in four eyes. How'd it go so far? For example, when a master performed some sort of housing repair, he told you how much it cost. If you requested an account that was once recognised as a tax relief, the answer was yes, but the price increased by VAT, so such a service provider gave up. Experiences from Republika Srpska say that it is a small benefit for the state, and a great pity for entrepreneurs while, contrary to Italy, we have positive experience because the tax authorities have discovered up to five times the traffic reported and 11 billion euros in tax evasion have been discovered since 2011. I believe that the introduction of fiscal registers will be seen as the introduction of order, because there is no alternative. This will certainly be supported by the vast majority of honest entrepreneurs who regularly pay their obligations while they are other unfair competitors. The experience of some countries also points to some of the observed problems, some of the fiscalisation models, as labour control is required, which means an increased number of employees who, by direct insight, determine the correctness of work. Since only some cash registers meet the conditions of fiscalisation, a monopoly of some producers may be created. There is a problem whether citizens as buyers who are given an account will see their own role because they are practically asked to be one of the kind of controllers of such a way of working. Finally, when we look at the recommendations of the working bodies of the European Union as well as the experiences of other countries that some of the fiscalisation models have carried out, when costs and effects are compared, it is important to go into battle with the gray economy and unfair competition in that part of the economy. Due to the solution to this long-standing problem, the Croatian Party Retired Party club will support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15285	Thank you, too. So we're done discussing clubs, so we're moving on to an individual debate. First, MP Igor Coleman signed up. He's gone, so he's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. The next distinguished representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, a lot has already been said about the importance of tax collection and the interest of a state that has to collect taxes so that I would not particularly owe it except to add, therefore, that permanent tax revenues are very much necessary to the state for financing and education, health care, defence, security and other public needs. I think the tradition of the gray economy that Croatia has is actually one tragic fact that forces us as ruling and forces us to take these measures. We've all met up with the phenomenon of non-accounting. Here's a colleague from HSU, and he mentioned it. Therefore, non-accounting and thus reducing prices in relation to those who regularly pay taxes, thus destroying the competitiveness of regular tax payments. I support all the measures aimed at introducing tax discipline. The fiscalisation is therefore also for the reasons given to me and a logical step. In fact, it is a known practice, unfortunately, that some traders, and in particular this is visible in the catering activity after the end of working time, are re-knocking accounts. So, you get the bill on the table, but he at the end of the working time beats it again and it types bills at much less amounts. That's why he cheated on the state, so he didn't pay his taxes, but he also cheated on the end consumer, or consumer. Because the tax was paid by the consumer. So you on the bill that you got on the table clearly tells you how much VAT, what consumption tax is, is all listed here and included in the price. Thus, the entrepreneur, or the caterer, did not give up part of his assets, but meant that he paid the tax as a consumer, but kept it secret from the state. Because he paid taxes and always pays the consumer, not the one who provides the service. What was expected of this tax, I apologize, this law has caused criticism as well as resistance. However, certain legal provisions are precisely aimed at adjudicating, i.e. helping, primarily, small entrepreneurs, since the biggest criticisms applied precisely to small entrepreneurs and to the new costs that this law will generate for them in terms of the purchase of software, hardware and the like. However, Article 20 of this Law states for small entrepreneurs that the possibility of issuing an account through a binding book certified by the Ministry of Finance is envisaged. So they will be able to avoid the purchase of expensive equipment, the purchase of expensive software, and by means of this book they will be able to issue accounts. Also, the constant pangs of how the tax has to be paid, so I think it's deplaced. I agree that the situation is difficult, but we are in a position to be equal and equal. Some who have to pay taxes and some who don't have to. I say we're all equal in front of the law, and we all have to be equal in front of the law, both in front of the IRS, and that's why everyone has to pay taxes. More than that, as I said tax, or money paid by tax was never the money of an entrepreneur since it was paid by the customer service or in this case by the consumer, so if we talk about catering and the like. This is the government's money that a certain entrepreneur keeps in his account for up to 30 days and then should be forwarded to the State. Which some of course don't. All laws that promote tax discipline have my full support. That's why I once again congratulate the Ministry of Finance and the Chiefs of the Tax Administration on what I've done, and since I've already made a general tax and welcomed with finally I think this law deserves exactly that, finally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15287	Thank you and thank you for your rational use of time. We're continuing the debate. Your Honor, Agent Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, my colleague Smiljanec is not here. So, the logical thing is that every man in the Republic will support every measure that introduces certain discipline and that is not disputed. But I'm also an opponent of that, I was also an opposition representative and the minister, so the MP and now the opposition representative, I'm the opponent of an unargumented attack, and I've never done it in the assembly, and as a minister, I've talked very openly about some things, and if any of the ministers have been massacred for trying to charge someone a tax, it was me. So let me get this straight. But look, colleagues, I'm the opponent of coming to power to lift something just because someone did it before me. Here's the case of the Financial Police. In 2000, the coalition came, abolished the Financial Police. No matter what the documents showed, the Financial Police established a total of 2.5 billion kuna per year in their inspection findings. It's gone. For one reason or another, I won't comment at all. The HDZ comes back to power in 2004 and the Financial Police returns. What's going on in 2012? Without any argument, the arguments are lifted again by the Financial Police. So these are things that aren't good. They're just not good. Or, say, look, we're talking today that we're going to give 500 kuna rewards to whoever reports some kind of bill. My colleague Smiljanec knows that, she was in the IRS, until 2000 we had that famous prize game where citizens could collect bills, stick it in the envelope, send it or legitize it, and every month I don't know how many months there was a public extraction, pull out an envelope with a name and a last name, it doesn't say whose accounts are in and who's got some kind of reward. The IRS used these accounts in various tax controls. And now look at your colleague that was lifted 12 years ago. If such a modified prize game were to remain perhaps this problem that we are talking about today would probably be smaller. Or if we're talking about something else, you're very often in a situation where you come into a restaurant or some kind of store, especially this little bit in the rural areas, and you have some kind of account and it says that you can only pay with cash, you don't get a card. So don't the Americans show us exactly the opposite direction? They pay very little in cash, everything is paid by card, but the cards for their commission take a far smaller percentage than in Croatia. Because look, the competition has made you take off the price, and if your credit card takes away 6% or 7% of the logical thing that you're going to run away from it, you're going to try to collect as much cash as possible. However, when you have an account that you pay with a card, then no one can mess with traffic for the simple reason that you have a jury account with that and that amount and you simply have to register it in your business books. So these are facts that you don't need to run from. Third thing, are we really going to hit ourselves with a slap and say that there is no high culture in Croatia to issue an account? Unlike even the most developed European countries. How many times did you come to a restaurant in France or somewhere else that you got practically a piece of paper printed and paid the bill? Now, the other problem is what all colleagues are talking about, the question is how many of these bills that were issued during the day are actually recorded as final traffic. But also if there's a repressive apparatus and there's supposed to step by step to the end. Why? Because the real question is, look 4 years ago, and even some colleagues from the current ruling coalition have attacked us, why don't we introduce a fiscal cash register, Serbia has introduced a fiscal cash register? What is happening in Serbia today? The fiscal register is being abolished. Why? Because the negative effect is terrible. Look why. Another thing, colleagues and colleagues, I would very much like to be with this material, because it is a very serious law and law that will have any serious economic repercussion, let's let these tax returns go. That we got a series of mathematical, analytical indicators. Here they could discuss the facts. And look it doesn't matter if a cafe in the center of Zagreb or a cafe 200 m away in Zagreb, or a cafe in a village in Dalmatia Zagora, Banovina, in the area of special state care, or if you have a shop and within 15 km you don't have any shops. That's a big difference. And you take the average of something, then maybe it turns out to be catastrophic. And I don't think anyone who worked at the Ministry and worked at the IRS has ever been happy to watch average annual applications, do you, fellow Smilyanac? Never. And it's tried a lot of different ways to get there. And since God and the people, including the Bible, are often referred to as a customs officer as a synonym for someone who collects taxes for the state, there has been this war between those who carry out their activities and those who do, each other jumps in one way or another. But you know exactly when a tax collector comes in, which ultimately follows. A colleague Dalic tried technically to explain what might have happened, and what result was it? Malta does not that HDZ is against introducing order. My colleagues and colleagues, I'll just tell you one thing. The budget from 80 to 110 billion did not increase because taxes increased. From 2004 to 2009, until the crisis occurred, no taxes increased in Croatia, though some fell. And budget revenues grew 10% to 11% annually. Why? Well, it wasn't our dear God who gave it to us from the top, but it was a tax system that was established. Today, given the crisis, it is obvious that some other mechanisms should be offered. I'm just saying, what I'm asking as a question, as a man who's been in this business for a long time, and my colleague Smilyan is long in business so this doesn't break down in our heads. And you know exactly what I'm talking about, so it doesn't break in our heads. So we don't get a lot of closures and people who just end up on the stock market. Our days of certain things don't translate into a gray economy far more than it is today. Because you know that tax repression sometimes, unfortunately, results in a counterproductive effect. The problem of certain intellectual activities and the problem of the doctor. And now I'm going to ask you one question, the system of the famous red light, has just gone towards this to solve this problem, but in a completely different way far more sophisticated, that with the acquisition of certain movables and real estate at some point will light someone up the light. Whether the law is 1.2 or 3 and the question will be, where do you get the money for it, and your apprehensive application is that way. It's just to avoid that repressive machine on the pettys, and to concentrate far more on those who can, with one ooho account, tax evasion more than these little ones. And now only here would I ask my colleagues one question, he says he's selling newspapers and the daily press is excluded from all this together. Now look, on the coast, and here in Zagreb, you come to the kiosk of a company that deals with the sale of newspapers has introduced cash registers in for itself, not for the state. But the rest of you have drinks, and you have almost sandwiches, chocolates, all hell and God except press. And now look, they may have several times more traffic because they are in Zagreb and larger cities, located on the Adriatic. They may have far greater traffic than some poor shop in some Dalmatian dent, either in a bano, or in the area of this Vukovar-Srijem County, and that this store simply serves these people so that they can come and buy something. So these are all the facts we can't escape from, but what I'm going to say at the end, colleagues and colleagues are not a Croatian country where tax is not paid, it's simply not true. And it is not true that Croatia is ahead of Bulgaria by a grey economy. And my colleague Đuric, I'm sorry he's not here, just to say, don't interrupt me. When I said that 10 new members of the European Union had to correct their gross domestic product for the gray economy for reasons that reference size, we also argued about administrative borders and statistical regions. The basic money withdrawal parameter is gross domestic product. And no one will tell you that if they tell you that your share of the grey economy is 30% in the gross domestic product, no one will give you that reference size that's 30% less taken as something based on which you'll withdraw the money. Therefore, no one escapes the fact that there is one part of the tax invasion, that there is a gray economy, only colleagues and colleagues, let's not say something that is not because in the end it will be 5.6 months, and then we'll start asking what Dalic's colleague said, whether the 95 million were charged, were not charged to publish or not. Because nothing is a secret, as soon as it exists in the IRS, it's not a secret. So the data is available to those who need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15289	Thank you. Boris Blazekovic also applied for the debate, but he is not there to lose his right to debate. And distinguished representative Jadranka Kosor, who also loses the right to debate. It's next, Honourable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15290	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues and colleagues in general are well-known for the fact that all countries are recording a certain rate of tax evasion, that's exactly what counterpart Schuker was talking about. In some countries, however, it has become literally a brake, thus literally limiting the state’s functioning factor. A few days ago, Italian Council of Ministers Chairman Mario Monti said Italy is in a state of war, and the enemy is not some other state but tax evasion. So tax evasion. According to some estimates in Italy, more than 40% of tax revenues are being omitted. In this for Italy and not only, of course, Italy, an extremely difficult economic situation, it is a very bad message to countries from which Italy could possibly request financial aid to resuscitate the situation in its country. However, the rational Scandinavians would say to such a possible demand for financial assistance: "Italia is a rich country but has a large public debt whose recovery will require our help, while at the same time there are too many Italians of rich or medium-sized who do not systematically pay taxes." I mentioned the example of Italy in the context of this law that we are already talking about tonight, just because it is the homeland of fiscalization and it is clear from what I said earlier why it is the homeland of fiscalization. However, the biggest problem of tax collection is characteristic of transition countries and Croatia is no exception to what we have to say to the level of tax morality or the level of financial discipline today in Croatia is extremely low. And I have to say, at the risk of the opposition repeating what I'm going to say on the call or qualifying as politics, so it's not the worst 20-year legacy of the previous government that's completely devastated the economy. I must say that it is this one financial indiscipline that is the biggest problem that is this worst legacy and it will take a tremendous amount of time and a great deal of effort to regain the level of awareness of the need to pay taxes, to build this one culture of paying tax obligations to make it possible for citizens to only in this way to fill the state budget evenly and to finance all public needs, so this is a prerequisite for the functioning of the state. The state of course costs. According to a European study, therefore, it is an unbiased study conducted by not 50 European countries, Croatia takes up a very low 47th place in the statistics of tax pay regulation, and the most common reasons that taxpayers state for evasion are the following, the attitude of taxpayers on the fairness and complexity of tax regulations, the services the state offers in return for paid tax, the level of penalties for tax offenders but perhaps the most important ease of tax evasion. Therefore, from the beginning of 2013, the application of the Fiscalisation Act, which should primarily facilitate tax supervision and introduce order in the payment of cash tax. Clearly, this tax should also protect consumers to a certain extent because it often happens to be charged in the price of services or products without being transferred to the State register. Annual tax returns point to just incredibly low day-to-day traffic that are registered in catering in trade and in some other service activities. Man can't believe someone's worth opening the door to a traffic store that's going to report at the end of the day. And the fact is that in Croatia, trade is the most open and that is because entrepreneurs expect to make a profit first in this activity. And of course you're not traffic alerts to non-accounts and manipulations in everyday practice. The fiscalisation under this law will be implemented through software, which means that software houses will also profit from it because the law does not determine who can make software solutions or that their use is limited to one specific accounting platform, so taxpayers will be able to choose the cheapest software providers themselves, and the certificates will be used on different IT platforms. The fiscalization bonds will, of course, also have to obtain a digital certificate. This will be done in FINA because only in FINA can be obtained, it is the only authorised issuer of such certificates in Croatia, with the price of this certificate being 300 kuna for 5 years, so the cost of this certificate is 60 kuna a year and no one can say that it is too much cost. And in the end, I'm going to ask one question. Is there any way that despite this law, despite fiscalization, it continues to avoid showing overall traffic in the fiscal register? It should be pointed out that there is no possibility of eradicating one recorded account from fiscal memory. That's impossible. However, there will continue to be risk groups of taxpayers who will not register traffic through fiscal devices or half the bill will be typed through fiscal and half the account unfortunately through the old register all in order to show less traffic. So the only way to eskicipate is not to show total traffic, or not to issue a fissile invoice. But this law will provide for harsh penalties. Money will be fined and customers who do not take an account and they will, and that measure is a sort of incentive for citizens to be tax inspectors in some way. And only when reporting for non-accounts is there no shame so when citizens are not called snitches like the Labourists said we will actually see that we are on a good track to change the consciousness of Croatian citizens, and that is exactly the goal. This is the goal of working together to raise awareness that the state will be cheaper and that we will pay everyone's burden of functioning depending on how much our payload is. So all citizens and economic operators must contribute to the functioning of the state as much as they can because the Croatian Constitution also requires us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15291	Thank you very much. We have a report of a replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just have to react to my colleagues, Jelesh, to your findings, your inadequacy, your indifference, etc. See if that indifference is so easy to solve so why didn't you cut it? Why did it increase you by nearly 700 million? I told you what an instrument is, an instrument is an OIB and you get rid of those 16 thousand companies that don't have any employees. Let the High Court of Commerce seduce them so that he can match them with companies where some owners are co-owners. Why didn't you do it? You had an instrument. You had an instrument. But look at saying this way that someone isn't something I told you about us we didn't increase the budget from 80 to 110 billion because we introduced new taxes rather than because we were charging. It's another thing, pal. You know, you're already pulling your tongue. Do you really think that when budget users have 300 accounts and sub-accounts and they have money on them that it's a financial discipline far greater than when you have a treasurer... when you pay for everything from one place. We inherited 2004. 300 sub-accounts containing 800, 900 million kuna, while the state had to be in debt to pay the bills and to be able to pay pensions, and below these sub-accounts there were 800, 900 million budget users. Today there's only one account and you're going to claim that today's chaos was then all wonderful and wonderful. It wasn't all wonderful and beautiful at the time, nor is it chaos today. This is a system that simply requires continuous changes and a continuous struggle with those who want to tax evasion. When we all start thinking that way, then we'll probably all be blowing into the same dupes that our people would say or play the same thing and try to find a solution, because this way until we accuse each other and unfortunately those who know little about this business so far this is going to be happening to us all together, we'll be laughing at those who don't pay taxes. But rest assured, whoever used to work at the Ministry of Finance will certainly never agree with anyone who doesn't pay taxes. Therefore, you refer criticism to the wrong address.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15293	We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Josip Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister, Madam Director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Whenever I observe a law sometimes, then I always think especially if it is new to its practical application. So I think this law has reached a high level of applicability. Here we can... And talk about it, with that to remind you a little bit that this isn't the first time that... [[You don't understand.]] The fiscal register, to be considered... [[You don't understand.]] It was in 2011 or 2002, but just then it wasn't hardware conditions, it wasn't. [[You don't understand.]] Today you have much more developed technology and this law in that part is good for me to think only about this software part because all these small merchants are already more or less hardware crewed enough that they don't need to buy new devices. It's in that part... when it comes to costs. [[You don't understand.]] Here the costs will be reduced by me to the least possible measure, and on that side I think it is an optimal approach when going into software, when we talk to traders, or service providers, sellers only to change the form of an account, buy and enable some internet connection. Let's say today AFIS in the part where it was said that by 4 o'clock the Tax Administration has to work, no, it doesn't, AFIS works up to 4 o'clock and he's now several tens of thousands of transactions per second can, they're teamed up both hardware and software and engineering and whatever. In this part of the efficiency of the law, I'd go back to that discussion when we talked for an hour and a half about big and small businesses. In fact, traffic control, the market control is the highest burden for the work of the tax inspector. Where I worked you have 25 inspectors at 2000 let's say so entrepreneurs, as large, as small, as medium. And now you imagine two inspectors have to come, write down the supplies, calculate the surplus, shortfall, write the record, write the committee, and then you, the debtor complains, so you write him a solution, then the first degree, then the second degree, the story takes a long time, let alone while people do it. I'm losing simple efficiency. And these people can then switch to more specific jobs and can do them in peace, so surely better efficiency is achieved because it is the most lost in these small controls. I would agree with Mr. Shucker if in Croatia there were a high culture of issuing cash accounts, I would agree. I also walk in Croatia, now a little more and more around Zagreb, and I wouldn't exactly say that I didn't get an account anywhere, but the question is whether this account was recorded at the end of the day, or what's in that account. I will return to this report on European value study. According to the survey, the Republic of Croatia, together with the countries of the region, is taking a very high place in the statistics of regular tax salaries, which again points to a high level of tax evasion. Mr. Schucker here said that 97% of taxes are charged, but which taxes, which taxes, is what traders have shown us or those real taxes they really have to pay. ... Okay, you'll have a chance in the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm saying, you can issue an account, but it's a crucial question if you showed it at the end of the day, or if you actually recorded it. I wouldn't repeat it again... I think it's regulated by the VAT Act, so don't put me on the line right now. [[You don't understand.]] Whoever has to issue the bill, I think it's also said that by that press code,... do not have to issue a cash account in terms of... [[You don't understand.]] Only if he's looking for them and then... [[You don't understand.]] All right, you got it, all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So this law, and especially in application, we expect it to be very much and this 500 million and 1 billion, I think it's a very real indicator, and it's going to happen very quickly and I think it's a cautious amount. It's going to be a much bigger effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15295	We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the second time I'll get back to you sooner if I want to be original, and in the good part, I'll sort of repeat this debate and try to sum up as much as possible in two three minutes. I hope we don't fall for a system, even if it's already relatively late, and I'm sure these systems of ours and we and these technically will endure these two other discussions and possibly a few replicas. We were talking about tax ejaculation, whether it's 16, 29 billion, 8% of GDP, 28 billion, obviously it exists, and obviously it's that fundamental link, obviously we need to do something about it. I often say in this conference for this speaker that the prerequisite is therefore to cut taxes, which we all desire and to dissipate the economy, along with these actions that we have so far taken but the desire of this government is to dissipate on... The prerequisite of it all is that taxes start paying. [[You don't understand.]] And the state, the responsible state, must provide instruments, must provide tools for these taxes to be paid. The data initially presented by a colleague named Lalovac on average traffic, so you must calculate that average traffic is carried by both honest entrepreneurs and those in Ban Jelačić Square who work at 30, 40 thousand kunas in bars and cafes and that they enter the statistics, and the figures that he has presented and that we will believe and a little more to the public, which are actually the best argument why certain tax discipline should be introduced. I think those figures, and the most inadmissible and unfavorable man who would possibly object to this law, are actually excluding arguments from his mouth, from his hands, and that this regulation that I'm making today is. We read it in our first reading, but we'll be quick to bring in what we need, as well as all the other tax laws that go towards the discipline of the state. The needs for similar people have also been recognised by countries in the environment, colleagues said. Italy is therefore quite effective colleague Jelash, as the new Italian prime minister recognizes it. What is our comparative advantage over countries in an environment that may not have such effects and that do not give up, and here we agreed that Croatia has an account culture. It's just a matter of what kind of account, but the positive effects Mr. Shucker was talking about, so those old actions and the extractions from that lotto number. I think that this effect, which is therefore described in Article 26, will become responsible for the fact that they will eventually report and protect themselves as consumers and they are actually looking for such an instrument, I think it will also help in this, in the effectiveness of this law. The two differences showed fundamentally on this side and on the other side. The first is therefore, she spoke on behalf of the HDZ club, Mrs. Dalic, why linear measures, why towards everyone equally. That's where we differ here and in all the other laws. Yeah, I don't have anyone to tell right now, she's not here anymore. Yes, to everyone equally and thank you for writing such laws and writing them in the future. That's what we want to do. Therefore, the elimination of unfair competition, equal rights for all and domestic and future foreign investors, and that is what will raise the interest and foreign investors for whom we so cry out in the Republic of Croatia tomorrow. The second difference is also said whether to succumb to obstacles, technical reasons, the system will fall here, the system will fall there, it will be Christmas, we will not arrive or go towards efficiency. I think my colleague Bencic well described how it works in practice, how a tax inspector actually controls cash traffic simply sits in that store all day long. He loses that day and the living room and the journey and the gazelle, etc. and possibly can examine one or two taxpayers. How difficult today's time may be, and without this efficient system of comparisons, it can also be a bribery. How many of his bosses or some of his bosses in Zagreb can raise the transparency of work precisely if they know where and how it is going and why this efficiency of these tax inspectors is, then it is, indeed, that they go targeted rather than tele-directed, God does not give political tele-tele-tele-tele-ted. The last thing I really wanted to say was something, which is actually this article 5. Some of them touched him. I have a feeling that maybe until the next reading, then one more time we should think or at least better explain these groups which, therefore, Article 5, we exempt from fiscalization. You know we all know how to interpret the law quite extensively, often to find holes in it. Ticket sales, passenger chips, movie tickets sales, theaters, concerts, that's 20,000 tickets. Do exactly leave them without this kind of surveillance. Sales in markets are meant to be benches, banks or as they are already said in various parts of Croatia that they are not locals located in markets. I don't think that's gonna have to be further written down. We mentioned the newspaper and the daily press. Article 7 is actually an exception if it is a kiosk and then just a newspaper and a daily press. But I'm saying, you're partly right that maybe we should prescribe it a little better. Someone was saying, I mean Mrs. Turina about selling goods and services through sales machines talking about that toilet machine in Poland. There are our parking machines, some other machines that give more. Well, maybe the slowest thing for me is here, and that's where I end up with point 7. Getting paid to participate in games of chance and fun games. Do we in any way stimulate something that's not good? We had a recent debate in the first reading, so that maybe we should think about it one more time, put the pluses and the minuses, the cost of benefit about all these reasons, so maybe some rope set up this group or maybe we forgot some group, so this cost someone said here this formulation would be more expensive pie than a tepsi or a pieted pie that maybe even some group here would add. I think it's something else that's going to come out well in this public debate and that these months that's ahead of us to spend our energy on it. The energy we need or don't need this law I think enough arguments have been made here. I think the best arguments are and I ask that they be given as soon as possible and the public is interested in these average traffics, where every responsible holder of government, and you sitting here and your associates are. They're giving a signal that we're passing laws like this, and when we bring them in, we'll be back to square one. So, taxes will be, we'll all be paid, and equally, then there's going to be a prerequisite that, therefore, these taxes and we're reducing and I believe that's going to be very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15297	Thank you, too. We'll hear another debate. I call upon the honourable representative, Nevenka Becic, to speak to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15298	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Deputy Minister of Finance, distinguished Assistant Minister of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear to all of us here that, through the proposal for a law on fiscalisation of cash traffic, the proponent approached with the intention of strengthening the tax on taxpayers in particular to those taxpayers who deliver goods and services to end-users, with the obligation to issue cash accounts and to pay through cash. However, the existing laws currently applied by taxpayers also oblige taxpayers to record cash traffic on an up-to-date basis and at exactly where that turnover is realised, subject to the obligation to allow access to that documentation at any point in time to enable the tax supervisory authority to determine the tax duties arising from such cash traffic. This proposal for a fiscalisation law and the way in which the proposer, through this proposal, came up with an increase in tax supervision, has positive elements, but there are also those that I, as a person who worked hard for many years in the economy, would refer to in particular, which refers to the following. My opinion is that, therefore, taxpayers are natural and legal persons entrepreneurs as well as the Tax Administration of persons and institutions who are supposed to be related to the partnership. Because also taxpayers, entrepreneurs, natural and legal persons and the IRS are invited to work for the common good. And in that thinking and on that trail, I also think that this proposal should make some changes, and they refer exactly to what my predecessors have mentioned, and that is the amount of costs that this bill will apply, which will result in taxpayers. I find it unnecessary to repeat what my predecessors said, and I wanted to say a lot. However, now I will only put it in summary and draw the applicant's attention to what I have seen in my opinion and what I think the promoter should do since this is the first reading in the final proposal of the law. Here we go in a row. Therefore, Article 9(3), Article 9, provides for the content of an account which is absolutely fine. The content of the account was previously prescribed by the Law on Value Added Tax and the exact elements that each account must have, otherwise, if it had not had, could not be called an account such a document. And now according to this bill, these elements that the account must contain are strengthened by new elements, including the OIB operator, or the person working on the charger. However, what I would like to draw and what I would like to warn is this, Article 9(3) of the copy of the invoices issued by the fiscalisation obligor is required to be kept in accordance with the provisions of the General Tax Code and the specific rules. And point 4 of the invoices must be issued on paper and by means of a means which will remain visible until the end of the professional time limit for keeping an account. The general tax law stipulates that the entire register relating to cash traffic must be kept for 10 years, starting from the beginning of the start of the limitation. You're all shopping with me here are live foods, food products in stores. We all get from the PC cashier's account. Copies of those accounts, I'm saying this from experience, I can't take two years, not three, let alone ten. After a while on those copies of the account, you can't recognize anything. And it's a nightmare for people who work in accounting and who run and who are in charge of tax records with taxpayers. And that is why I appeal and ask the promoter, since the Tax Administration will have every account with a unique identification number from each taxpayer in its electronic archive also with a taxpayer in its electronic archive. I find it unnecessary to bring a taxpayer into a situation that has extra costs as well as nightmares keeping those steaks from the PC register for 10 years. It's impossible to keep them, I'm telling you from experience. And so I ask that if it is possible to supplement this in a way that they must be kept recorded on an electronic data carrier. Because the IRS has them, and the IRS has them, and the IRS has them. That's what I wanted to draw attention to. Next, since time is going by quickly, next, I would refer to the collapse of an account between the taxpayer and the IRS by electronic means where, of course, the IRS returns the account with a unique identification number which is fine. However, there is one here in this bill of law another bottleneck that I have found in my opinion, and this would be the following, for example, in the case of more force in the taxpayer there is electricity, the system works, but the system falls in the IRS. The taxpayer cannot establish communication with the Tax Administration, cannot release accounts, cannot obtain a unique identification number and in these situations, in this proposal of the Fiscalisation Act, it is stated that the taxpayer is obliged to keep a record of cash traffic as is kept by small bonds of fiscalisation. However, small bonds of fiscalisation, which are the basis of the Income Tax Act, are distributed in such a way that their income generates a flat tax, they are such persons, they receive a book with special lists imported and certified by the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. They are not, according to this proposal of the law, obliged to conduct their accounts electronically. And now we're getting into trouble. Therefore, a taxpayer who has to keep an electronic record and issue accounts cannot establish contact with the IRS. He is obliged to run and issue accounts as a small obligor of fiscalisation on payment. What does that mean? He's gonna open a book, and what's he gonna do? There are 10, 15, 20 people in front of PC cash registers, they'll take the book and they'll hand-written pasta, bread, juice, etc., etc. This will come to a narrow throat and will simply not be possible to carry out the registered activity and the taxpayer will suffer damage. And in that sense, I would ask the promoter to analyse this situation a little bit because I have found that there may be problems and that there is a way to find some way that this taxpayer might still issue accounts on that electronic device, and that after two days you are in this law and that it is obliged to establish communication in one way or another then it will receive from the Tax Administration a unique identification number. But then these accounts are still being issued through that electronic device that retroactively this number or something, something else needs to be done. I noticed that in practice there would be a problem where there would be a narrow throat in carrying out the registered activity. Because if a taxpayer is prevented from carrying out his activity not only suffers damage he suffers, the whole community suffers. Because he doesn't pay as a colleague said before that it's a consumer tax, not a legal person's owner. That's not true. In part, because the income tax is paid by the owner of a legal person or a legal person, it is irrelevant who owns a limited company or a limited liability company that is absolutely irrelevant. It is true that value added tax is charged by the end-user, and profit tax is exclusively paid by a legal person. So we have different tax taxes that give this person or that person. It's like on the way. I've got 22 seconds left. I still wanted to warn you of another failure I noticed if you'd let me. We have Article 19(3), I realized that you had good intentions and that you wanted to monitor the work of employees in the employer, in the legal person, in the part of the length of working time, because you assumed by this bill, or as an obligation, that an OIB operator, or an employee who works on a payment device, should also be listed in the account. And that's okay. But here as indicated you will be able to control only one person, which is the one that works on the PC register or on that charger. And what about the other employees who work in that sales space or the space where the service is provided, it's absolutely irrelevant. So you should take care of that too. So either to include everyone because it involves only one employee, and maybe it's 10, 20, 50 in that facility that doesn't matter which activity, I'm saying whether it's catering, shopping, providing services, etc., etc. I'm running out of time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15299	Thank you. Deputy Finance Minister respected Boris Lalovec wants a closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. We've been together since 9.30 this morning, and I have to say it was worth being with you all day, they've been heard not only through this law, but through other laws, really good and concrete proposals. Especially the last presentation, we held the concentration and listened to Mrs. Bečić and thank you once again for the constructive proposal and we will certainly consider all these things. What's important is to say, here we separate two things. So one is technical, and there will certainly be problems, we'll solve them, and all of your suggestions that came from your side are positive, and in that part we'll do everything in fact to make them as small as possible, but certainly your concern in that part stands. And on our part, there's one part of my concern about how it'll all come to life when it does. So that's, in that part, there's definitely a part of the fear that exists on our side. We're trying to do everything to minimize these mistakes, but that's part of the story. The second part of the story is the conceptual part that I told you at the beginning, I'd like to actually get your support, means the opposition to use new technologies in that part. It doesn't matter in this part of what we just said, eating tax evac, that part of the gray economy... It is evident that he exists, it is evident that this government will try to take action on how to reduce him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what the former government was trying to do, so we're not contesting that part, we're trying to go through other methods that we heard today. The less we have the repressive apparatus, the more we use new technologies, the more we change the philosophy of controlling our taxpayers. So in the entire system, it will certainly help us and the OIB, it will certainly help us in this part of the fiscalization, and we would actually like in this three-year term as long as we actually have, to raise one level of control both through the OIB and through this fiscalization, and in fact, for 4 years we are talking in completely one new business conditions. We are entering the European Union, we want to be a country, and we are actually going to present ourselves. So once again I thank you, we've been discussing this for a long time, there have been constructive proposals, so here's another thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15301	Thank you. I'm the one who concludes the debate and only one notice. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 p.m., and on the proposal of the Justice Committee, we will hold a united debate on the next 4 points of the agenda, and tomorrow we will see about Vice President Lek what about time, because we have 4 points of the agenda. So, if I don't read them now, that's all those bill proposals that, in their name, have a mandate or an perpetrator. At 9.30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-25-0.u15302	Proposal for a law on fiscalisation in cash, first reading, PZ No. 151. The debate on the draft law is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: a proposal for a law on fiscalisation in cash transport is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. By raising our hands, may we please state who is to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that most of the 98 votes in favour and 24 against the proposed conclusion, 24 abstentions, I apologize. Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected colleagues, we can begin the session of the Croatian Parliament for the day with the proposal to - Final proposal of the Executive Act, second reading, PZ No. 128; - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the implementation of the law on monetary assets, second reading, PZ No. 130; - Final proposal for a law on the termination of the law on public enforcement, second reading, PZ No. 129; - Final proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on public enforcement fees, second reading, PZ No. 131; conduct a united debate. I suggest that clubs in a united debate can discuss for 20 minutes, and in an individual debate, we stay at 10 minutes. I think that's a correct suggestion. Can we accept a position like this? Thank you very much. Then we'll begin the debate. Let us first read the Final Proposal of the Executive Law, second reading, PZ No. 128; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law shall apply in law, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Finally, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the implementation of the budget, second reading, P.Z. No. 130. The legislator is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposal in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate on this final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from the working bodies at the session. Final draft law on the termination of the Law on Public Executive, second reading, P.Z. No. 129. The legislator is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final proposal for this law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. And fourthly, the Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Public Execution Taxes, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 131. The proposer and this final bill is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law shall apply in law, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was also conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative want to further explain the final proposals for these laws? Yeah. Here you go. Deputy Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
