ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16249	We're going to work on the agenda now. It is before us - The final proposal of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 161 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The hearing was conducted by the authorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Management, the Honorable Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is a common legislative delegation given by the Croatian Parliament to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section of regulations is empowered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of the current economic policy in the part of the Croatian Parliament, except for changes in the state budget and regulation of taxes and those issues which only the Croatian Parliament can regulate under the Constitution. In addition to the constitutional restriction under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot regulate issues relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, part-line and way of working of state authorities and local self-government of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate only issues of current economic policy is limited by the provision under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia can use this power only at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. It is highly authorised that during the period from the date of disband or the end of the term of office of the Croatian Parliament, until the date of the first meeting of the newly elected Assembly, the Government shall regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament, except those which may be governed by the Constitution only by the Croatian Assembly and the adoption or amendment of the state budget and the regulation of taxes. The power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section in its legislative delegation will cease under the said law on 7 October 2012 because the deadline of the year on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia was given the authority. The applicant assesses that he still needs to be given the legal authority to adopt regulations on the basis of legal authority, but limited as so far only in the period when the Croatian Parliament is regularly not sitting and for the period when the Croatian Parliament is disbanded or its term of office has expired. Therefore, from 15 December 2012 to 15 January 2013 and from 15 July 2013 to 15 September 2013 Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16251	I thank the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs first. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Davorin Mlakar, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister Bauk's proposal was also cited as saying that this is a technical point that we have been used to for years to bring and that it can be authorised by the Government to adopt regulations in certain matters from the Parliament's section when the Parliament is not in session. We have no problem with such a provision. The minister read these basic elements of his proposal, however, we would like to warn the Government as we are already reading some of the provisions of the law and of this law, Article 3 which is the same as the article of the previous law, whose application, i.e. the validity, expires on 7 October this year. So, the government has gone through an emergency procedure with a technical amendment to the law, and we do not object to the urgency of the procedure, although it could have gone a little earlier with the adoption of this law, and there would be no need for an emergency procedure. However, Article 3 obliges the Government and this, as well as the previous, that, apart from having a law under which it may adopt regulations under the Parliament's section, the Assembly must report on the regulations it has adopted in the past period when such power was conferred. And I think that the government should then fulfil its obligation to parliament, so before it adopts a new law that will again be authorised for a year to adopt a regulation with a legal force, to report to parliament that the regulations have passed over the past period. That's what I'm saying in Article 3 of this proposal. Therefore, the Government may submit to the Croatian Parliament a report on the adoption of the regulation immediately after its adoption, although I am not sure what such report would contain, and at each meeting of the Croatian Parliament, a report on the regulations adopted between the two meetings of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of the powers laid down in Article 1. Now, that is something that is the government's obligation every time, which logic imposes on it to be a previous question, that is to say, to come to Parliament's session before the law comes to which the government will be authorised again for the next year to pass such a law. Given that it is time, I am afraid for a short time because I doubt the government will be able to do so, but we suggest that, with the adoption of this law, by an urgent procedure, the Parliament also draws the conclusion that it obliges the Government to submit a report on the regulations it has adopted under its earlier legal powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16253	Thank you, too. In the name of the HDSSB club, the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16254	Thank you. The HDSSB club, since it is indeed a technical law and is related to, and the work of the parliament, as well as the Croatian government, will support, which is quite normal, the adoption of this law. But also this one asks several questions that are related, above all to Article 2 and Article 3. And not only does the Government have an obligation, to submit to the Croatian Parliament a report on the adoption of the regulation immediately after its adoption, which is often practically not happening, and to each session of the Croatian Parliament, a report on the regulations adopted between the two meetings of the Assembly on the basis of the powers laid down in Article 1. That is, at the first session of the newly elected Croatian Parliament, and the report on the regulations it has adopted since the date of the last report. So it's often and practically not happening in practice. And there is also a question about responsibility, so the government itself, what happens if the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament does not accept those reports. And it can happen that the government adopts regulations that are not related to the part-circuit of the Croatian Parliament, except for questions, so including issues that only the Croatian Parliament can bring under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So, this is an open question, because I believe that so far many Croatian governments have violated the regulations and the Constitution itself. I'm sorry, it's not a godfather's look, it's a godfather, but here's an apology, I apologize. So, first of all, to point out the problem that relates to these two articles. As far as the best man is concerned, he obviously doesn't stand a chance, he didn't sign up for the SDP, and given how public tenders are being held, all the seats are filled without public competitions. So, but here's the opportunity to re-emerge practically and re-responsibly, here's the thing about these two cases as well as the inability to enroll students in college, the inability to work and get a license. And we can't go back all the time, because here I don't know if the former health minister spent all that money, maybe, but this Parliament also made a decision to cut those 2% contributions to health care. And obviously there is also a problem with the lack of these funds, the problem that the Ministry and Government still have no answer that is related to what is listed, not in the government regulation but in the law passed by the Croatian Parliament, that it is these people, who have completed more medical schools that enable them to do so by law, and to enable them, but also to create a licence, i.e. to pass a state expert exam. So, we will support this law, although we know that neither the regulation nor this act will help the economy in terms of the decline in production, the decline in gross national income, the decline in population standards, will help even deserted agriculture in Croatia, especially in Slavonian agriculture. I would like to, here, in between these Christmas holidays when the Parliament does not meet to bring the Croatian Government there before the end of the year to the Regulation on the payment of an elementary disaster and to help all family economies in Slavonia and Baranja to adopt a regulation that will allow the health care of a special hospital so if someone is responsible for the situation in hospitals, the former directors must answer, but to allow exactly the standard of health and to enable all hospitals to function. It also increases the standard of education because it is not necessary to ignore the fact that the mini tax reform of the Ministry of Finance is a reduced decentralised means that many schools, hospitals, many fire departments have a shortage of funds, schools do not even have hot water, that they will adopt a regulation on increasing pensions to pensioners that they can finally live as recorded in the Constitution etc., etc. So, but I don't owe it one more time to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Ministry of Health, to the Ministry of Education to understand the problems of these young people, to allow them to finish college, for those who have finished more schools not to go to the Ministry of Employment or how we in Slavonia tell the Bureau to get to work, to go to work, not to go to the Bureau, and from the Bureau to the grave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16255	Thank you, too. In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Jozo Radoš, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16256	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So these two points that we just had within these club breaks are related to this regulation. They show that in these times in which we are present today, it is in fact that this law is necessary at least, of course, ideally, that this law does not apply at all that the Government does not use these powers at all, but unfortunately we do not live in such times, and it is likely that there will be a need for regulation of certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. It is a good circumstance we welcome that this law is extended every year, that there is no permanent validity, expecting, of course, that any Croatian government will make as little use of these powers as possible to plan its work well, well plan legislative proposals, initiatives so that there will be no need for interventions in a more or less legal system beyond the Croatian Parliament. So we welcome this one-year validity of this law because this year's debate in the adoption of this law every year is an opportunity to discuss what the government is doing, which the regulation has adopted, whether it has well planned its work, whether it has well planned the dynamics of the proposal to the Croatian Parliament and that these two dimensions of the Croatian Parliament's reporting are, of course, worth reporting by the Government on the regulations adopted. So the government needs to present a report immediately at the time of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. There is no reason for the government not to do so, the government that works in accordance with the law has no reason not to submit such reports, and of course the Government should submit those reports after the Croatian Parliament's break. Therefore, there should be no restrictions but, of course, the number of regulations that the Government has adopted during a term of office, the weight of those regulations can, of course, also be an opportunity to evaluate that government. And of course we at the HNS Club welcome this law, we think it's a good one. Perhaps further restrictions should be considered in the future development of our political system. This law, as you know, has restrictions on the government's entry into human rights issues, the laws governing the electoral system, the system of state administration. But I am saying perhaps, with the expectation that these laws would actually be used in the future to the least possible extent, to set up other restrictions for the government's intervention in the power of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Club of HNS Representatives supports this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16257	Thank you. How interested in an individual debate for 10 minutes does not call on the Minister of Administration of Mr. Arsen Bauk to give the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I thank the representatives of all the clubs who announced their support for this law. Since the deadline expired on 15 September and there has been only one cabinet session since then, we will, of course, file a report in accordance with the law. But here's just to notify verbally that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is under the law that is in force until this law enters into force, it has adopted one regulation, and this Regulation amending the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Employees, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, and has also referred to the procedure for amending the law on pension insurance rights in which that Regulation puts out force. The law is already on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. In the light of the law, it is also written in the text of the law that the regulation that has been passed puts out of effect and that the Croatian Parliament should therefore be arranged as proposed by the Government. Here, therefore, is a regulation during the last period already translated into a bill that is in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16260	The next is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 161, the debate on the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I set out unanimously with 110 votes for the adopted Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16261	Now we move to the next item of the agenda and that is also the last item of the agenda to be discussed today. I'd like to remind you that we're voting at noon, so I'd like the representatives of the clubs to ensure the presence of the representatives at that time. We will now discuss: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on child allowance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 153; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. Article 159 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Darko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys and MPs. One of the basics of both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth is that for all our users who are always and in turn the most socially sensitive groups that each assistance, every service, everything we provide through the competent ministry often means naked existence, survival and life, must never be abolished in any of their rights, in any of their services and in any kuna, in any social kuna that belongs to them objectively. On the other hand, we are talking here today in the assembly that we are in a situation where all possible costs need to be rationalized and every kuna spent is to be taken care of. Although at first sight there are two conflicting requirements, it is precisely the proposal for this law to amend and supplement the Law on Extra for Children, with the final proposal of the law, that I hope is one of the outstanding examples that this is possible. In fact, with only four articles of the amendment of the law, we propose to save approximately 2 million kuna a year, and that none of the users, any child entitled to a child's allowance, will be in any right, in any service, in any kuna that belongs to him objectively, in nothing. In fact, as the allowance for children is determined for each year as a legal obligation and as more than 256 000 solutions are made annually for this purpose and each of these solutions is spent for more than 13 kuna due to all those administrative costs, only for administrative costs of nearly 3.5 million kuna. By amending this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that for all children, for all of those allowances for children for whom the same amount remains which is neither reduced nor changed in the following year, so in the year to come, not to bring a new solution, but to automatically continue to apply, or to pay an extra charge for children. By noting that both the Ministry of Finance and HZMO are automated processes, the payment of allowances for children has been continued and at no time has been interrupted and it runs from 1 to 12 months regularly and is very important for all people who do so and who are entitled to do so. So, by skipping an administrative barrier where the rights of users are fully protected, in this case children, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to make these changes and we expect that almost 2 million kunas will be saved in this way and instead of spending them on administrative costs, we would like to direct them right towards the end users and those who need them most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16263	I thank Deputy Ledinsky. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what the Deputy Minister said, small changes, savings, but of course with the goal of never being damaged by the end-user. It once again shows the responsibility of this law that is today. In fact, one of the indicators and social images of citizens are also data on the number of children's extras. Family support is certainly a goal for all, especially families with children who are a vulnerable group, always and especially in the economic crisis that also implies a social crisis. This year, an average of 256 000 solutions are made on the right to compensation, and the cost of the solution delivered each is actually about 3.5 million kuna a year. Due to budget savings, this law is amended to actually save around 2 million kunas. When we are very often criticising the efficiency of the state administration, however, we are wondering what we can do and exactly this Law amending and supplementing the Law on Extra for Children is a real example of what we can do to speed up the administrative procedure in the state administration. Before such a change, that is, today's situation is such that the obligation to make a new solution is every year, despite the fact that there has been no change in the status of the user. It means that it was only an administrative cost in the form of consumer paper and envelope, postage and VAT, but it is not only that part but it is more important and the cost in the form of unnecessary time-consuming of officials. I also have to stress here a high routine of work that is actually visible in the administrative procedures themselves because data processing, about 90% of requests are processed by May. Therefore, we can say that it is a commendable speed of officials, and that is why it is important to think about their time. I'll give you an example, if we overload the clock with unnecessary wheels or springs, it will certainly consume more energy and the question is whether or not it will point to the exact time. Therefore, we are in the best interest of efficiency and state administration. Therefore, this law saves not only a substantial amount of financial resources and time, we must also consider it from an ecological aspect, you may say what this has to do with it, but the sooner we start including that dimension in our calculations, the better. Of course, we expect even greater efficiency by connecting the databases of the Ministry of Peace, Health and Tax Administration so that the status and changes in the status of the user are immediately visible to all services, thereby discharging the user from unnecessary walking from service to service and data collection, confirmation, but also disbursement of all services that the user has to visit because at the time of the lecture, the requests for child allowance are not only suppressed by the main tents of the Peace Institute but also by other services from which different status certificates are required. My colleagues and colleagues, the SDP club, of course, I support this law, that is to say, amending the law to reduce the cost of speeding up the process when implementing the Children's Supplement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16265	Thank you. And I call upon the respected representative Mladen Novak to bring us closer to the position of the Croatian Labour Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16266	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The Croatian Labour Club will support this proposal for these changes for the simple reason that any savings are welcome. It's just a question of 9 months of new authorities that all savings are practically saved. We're not sending solutions to the practical technical part. What is controversial and what Croatian Labourers have already asked as a question, as a representative question when the income price for child benefit will be brought in line with the cost of living, is answered by the minister, excuse the minister that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown its determination to secure rights in unchanged amounts. Look, people are never worse, never harder, children's extras are growing more and more for reasons that the birth rate has grown than more people fall into that category to exercise their right. We have more and more people who are unemployed, and we have people who don't get paid. At the same time, it happens that the VAT jump, then the increase, the addition of electricity costs, the gas. It's all a blow to the standard of citizens, and we get an administrative measure that only eliminates the cost of sending a solution. It's good, okay, it's only okay if it's a solution. After nine months that the only proposal we got, we got to save 2 million kunas to send a solution. Okay. We support that, too, but give some concrete measure that people can survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16267	Thank you, too. In the name of the HDZ club, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth. So here at the outset of the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the amendment and addition of the Law on Extra charge to children for the same reason my predecessors said it was, it was a single savings. Although the savings that came out of it I'd say technical, administrative changes. But I think we should take advantage of this situation and say why the allowance for children who are intended to support and raise children is very important at the moment for the survival and standard of Croatian families. Well, the last amendment to this law was in 2010. The law on child allowance is based on the principles of social sensitivity and thus represents a really important document of social policy. Surely the child's allowance is important and support at this time of crisis when indeed many do not receive pay, when they receive the minimum wage of those funds from colleagues and colleagues to some families at this time are actually used to maintain the survival of the family. And I think this law that's going to save two million kunas, and I'm going to say something right now that's happening with a child's allowance, although it seems like nothing's happening, that nothing's changing. Data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that pays child's allowance say there has been a change in child's allowance, i.e. that there has been a change in how much this child's allowance is worth at the moment. I mentioned amendments to the 2010 law, and I must say that this law has brought about a visible improvement. First of all, there is a strong link between the resolution authorities and the competent services in the exchange of data essential for deciding on the right to compensation for children as well as responsibility for the offences committed. All tasks relating to the exercise of the right of child allowance are carried out by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, and the supervision of the law is carried out in the implementation business, payment of allowances for children, carried out by the administration in the competent ministry. In this case now social policy and youth. But I can't help remembering the start of the 2012 budget when Minister of Finance Mr. Linic said the following sentence: "There will be no reduction in child's allowance, maternity benefits". That means supporting the family. However, I am concerned about the information already mentioned by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, for example from May 2012 to August 2012. These last months, for which we have the number of users of the extra charge for children increased from 208495 users to 216405 users in August. The difference, therefore, is 7910 users, which means that in May of this year 394975 children received a child's allowance, and in August 409189 children or for these three months 14214 children more. It might seem to us that these are numbers that are administrative. Why? Because some of the solutions to the child's allowance come only at the end of April, May. However, the proposer himself, in the context of the reasoning of this law, which is before us, said that all the business of making a solution and all of it into the ministry, i.e. in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, is being dealt with on average 90 per cent and more at the end of April. So it's administratively settled. Well, then, when we know that child benefits are received by parents whose income per household member does not exceed 1663 kuna. So, that income, that's what it's all about. less than 50% of Croatia's budget base. Then these numbers of colleagues and colleagues have to worry us. Because if the increase in users in June has increased compared to May for 4190 users it means that the standard of our citizens and incomes have fallen below 1633 kuna per household member in our families, which is a sign that jobs have been lost. At this point, here in the media yesterday we can read 310 thousand is unemployed in Croatia. In August, according to statistics, it was 301 thousand 583. So, all these unemployed people who receive an average of 1600 kunas at the Employment Service or don't receive anything this child's allowance means a lot to them. We said it wasn't there and we heard today that it didn't come down or increase the child's allowance. Maybe these numbers will bother you, but they're telling us something, they're the truth, they're the fact today. The child's allowance, I'm talking about the average child's allowance, was in August 352 kuna, and in April 356 kuna. So he fell for four kunas after all. Believe me, colleagues and colleagues, in some families it's a kilo of bread, four kunas. And I'm gonna go back to the law a little bit, but I thought it was a commitment because of everything that's ahead of us, and we're expecting a very hot fall because we know that the VAT has grown a long time ago, and we know that there's electricity, gas, somewhere and water, and utility, and we know that our basket is very expensive, so I think these savings are going to mean something, too. Deputy Minister, I really expect that these two million kunas we say will be used to increase the child's allowance in the next period, so we still have two months until the end of the year, or at least to ensure regular payment of the child's allowance, which means a lot to families. Of course, we will therefore support this amendment to Article 27, which is only changing, I would say really administratively, that it is saving on the issue of those solutions for those children's allowance users where nothing is changing. But as I said these two million kunas, I expect that this savings will be used to receive children's allowance on a regular basis because with some families, and I come from the city, I have to be personal here, the town of Sisak where there is a very high unemployment, in which 1200 workers of Sisak Iron and Herbos have been at the Employment Office for 3 months now, and who are still expecting the new owner of the hardware to hire them. But out of 1200 of them, only 30 of which the Croatian government is very concerned, but it seems only to its statements and nothing else. To them, just the other day I spoke to them in this assembly, these workers collected heat from the heat industry by 37%, collected their gas, collected their food because there was a far more expensive basket in Sisak with food products than some others, collected all their books, and apparently what the Ministry of Education introduced free transport for high school students and made a mess of it for them, and these workers in the Caprag village were taken away from them. So, because of all of this, I'm citing this example that I know, I think that the funds that will be saved from two million kunas because of these people, I think that we should focus precisely on increasing child support and helping parents to support children because I think that the new school year and everything that awaits us this autumn and this winter is very expensive for Croatian families. Here, in the end, I have to say that the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16269	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mrs. Roksandic, on behalf of the HDZ club, said the club would support this law, but she cited several examples in which the law is not consistently implemented. I would point out an example in which the Ministry violates the law that the Government has proposed and adopted in this House. Namely, social care centres are managed by administrative councils representing 3 founders and 1 representative of the county and 1 employee. Article 120(4) of that law provides that 3 representatives of the founders and 1 representative of the county shall appoint a minister on a proposal from the County Office responsible for social care. So the three representatives who appoint the founder and the one he appoints are also proposed by the county. However, the practice has so far shown that the ministry is asking the county's competent authority for a proposal from only one member of the board of directors, although the law also requires that it seek a proposal for 3 who represent the founder. So I am interested that here is Mr. Deputy Minister to introduce us to whether it is a practice in the Government that is not respecting the law that the Government has proposed because I assume that for the permanent administrative councils appointed to the contrary to Article 120(4) will probably be illegal and that a procedure may be launched to repeal such appointments of members of the boards of directors for social care centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16271	Here you are asking the Deputy Minister, and you will probably hear from a colleague named Roksandić who answered your reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16272	Well, no, I won't answer, and I expect Mr. Vice-President's answer from the Deputy Minister, but I want to make something more difficult. We have recently changed the Law on Social Welfare, and when this law changed we have just pointed to problems, and it has changed precisely in this area where the administrative councils are changing, the new administrative councils on the problems that will happen. Well, now I really expect the deputy minister to answer the question of her colleagues, Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16273	Second replica, honorary representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Roksandić, mentioned among other things, and the fact that here recently, according to the data, has increased the number of children's allowance users. I agree that it certainly shows that many families in Croatia are finding it harder to live. However, in addition to this fact, I want to visit, since it is time to adopt a state budget, and I want to appeal to the government, in the budget for the coming year, in no way to touch the funds for children's allowances, but also for maternity benefits. Because as it is not for this year, which is commendable. Because it is certainly a fact that we are not that all these measures help strengthen the programme, or demographic policy, but also that it helps people to simply survive. I would like to remind you that in recent years, 2009 and 2010 and 2011, therefore, the difficult years that we have had. We are not in the budgets of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was accepted by the Parliament, reducing any compensation cuts, or birth benefits, totalling around 4 billion kunas each year. And I also remind you that in the past governments we have expanded the number of users, in fact by affecting the censorship, we have expanded the number of users by about 60 thousand, precisely because we were lowering the censorship. So, once again for this debate, I propose that, in no way in the 2013 budget, children's allowances and maternity benefits are reduced. I will not appeal to increase because it is unrealistic in this situation, but I will also take care of this debate, that these funds of around 4 billion kuna remain intact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16275	There is no answer to this replica, so we will hear the third replica of the respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16276	Well, respected colleagues are not only the citizens of Sisak, but they have collected 25% of all Croatian citizens for VAT. However, what I would certainly like to point out is that the government, as far as water is concerned, introduced a fixed cost, thus affecting the increase in the basic price of water. This government did not take it off, but instead added the fixed cost to the gas. So we're probably going to pay that fixed cost, anyway, all these years on electricity consumption, especially that there's this so-called. Preferred consumers. Well, in local self-government units, almost 100% has collected electricity for public lighting. As far as we are concerned in Slavonia, and I believe you in Sisak, given the division of this Croatia into two statistical regions where we have an average of around 30% to 35% of the European Union. Now that they've brought us together with Zagreb, which I have no objection to, and with Varazdin, we now have that standard of life overnight, all incomes, reduced the number of unemployed, so now we're on average somewhere in the European Union to 64%. So, overnight we in Slavonia, and Baranja, and Srijem, and in most parts of Croatia are far better off living only that's what we're not aware of.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16277	Now, in this replica we will hear the answer of the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16278	Thank you. My colleague Vinkovic, I did not say that I cited Sisak because I came from this city and I know the situation, but I also know that in all parts of Croatia life is really difficult. That this same basket is more expensive, that we spend all the same gas, water is not because it depends on the utility company or the water company that provides water service in the cities locally. But you're right, I think some of the ends are really going to be damaged because apparently, what I was saying on paper, and now here on paper at this child's allowance, everything seems to be fine, that everything is wonderful, is regularly paid, hasn't fallen. We do not expect him to rise and increase because of the crisis we are in, but we expect a standard of our citizens to be maintained. And here I agree with you that we should all really work on not living and we must be aware of it, regardless of the statistical regions, regardless of what is in the laws, we do not all live in Croatia the same, all too hard, we must be aware of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16279	We're continuing the club debate. So I'm calling on the esteemed representative, Željko Schemper, to come to the pay phone and present the position of the HSU club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for this small or useful amendment to the Law on Child Compensation of HSU fully agrees, as it is about reducing the costs of exposing the solution and sending the same users of the child's allowance. There is really no need if there is no change in the conditions for exercising the right to a child's allowance to expose and send a solution that is identical to a last year's solution. Almost 2 million kunas will be saved, and this is an example of how to go into savings and small expenditures. For information, we can also mention the figures that revolve in the realisation of this law. According to data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in July this year, 214 753 users were extras for 460 231 children and the average rate of surcharge was 352 kuna. Maybe it's a little unusual for us retired HSU deputies to discuss the problem of child benefits, but it's known that we retire more grandmothers, fewer grandfathers work in grandmother services and take care of our grandsons. If parents are lucky, they are employed, grandparents collect the necessary documentation for the achievement and use of the child’s allowance. And in view of such experience, we must point out that part of the process of exercising the right to compensation which can and should be improved. We have already pointed out in some parliamentary discussions the need for information networking and use of data from central authorities of the state administration, units of local, and regional self-government, public institutions, or other competent authorities. The OIB that our colleague Shuker will be waving here, has been in office for four years and is still under-used. That our citizens don't need 7 papers to break the thresholds into 7 institutions. In various requirements children are often asked for a birth certificate not above 6 months old. They do not understand the need for such urgency because it is not a data such as household income that changes almost every month, depending on whether the parent works or gets fired so there is no income. The child was only born once and fixed the date of his birth and there is no change. It is similar with the confirmation of the residence we talked a lot about in the recent debate on the Law of Residence. The problem also relates to obtaining data on the income of users and members of the household. The proposal for this law states in the assessment of the situation that in the process of translation of the institutes automatically from the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administrations will take over the data on the incomes of the users and all members of its household, and according to Article 27 of this Act and the total income of the household made in the previous calendar year by the end of February of the current year must be provided by the applicant. This shows the need for information networking and withdrawal of all necessary data based on the OIB from any institution where the original data is located. Birth certificate from the Mother's Office, confirmation from the residence of the MUP, household income from the Tax Administration, school certificates, etc. Otherwise HZMO is connected to the MUP and the Tax Administration but only to the old users of the child's allowance, and to new users only to the MUP. It's just that in general in the country it's amazing how little information is used in everyday life. As a rule, once an information system has been entered into one institution, it should be used by all institutions that need certain information to reduce all these large-scale paperwork to free citizens from the collection of various certificates because even more resources than those provided for in this law can be saved. Perhaps the HZMO should also consider the continued procedure of the so-called "HZMO". translation or child allowance procedure throughout the year, not to solve very extensive documentation for a large number of users in the first 4 months. It is our proposal that the request for a child's allowance be accepted throughout the year and that payments be not related to February but to submission of applications. So far, requests have been received by the end of February, and if you forgot to submit the request, then you handed it over to March 1st and April the parent had not received a child's allowance. It may also be necessary to change or approximate income from the previous calendar year according to the information required, for example, when applying the social care law, where data on receipts are required for the last three months, even if this period is too long to be left without social compensation. Compared to the time 4, 5 years ago, a lot has changed, with the arrival of the crisis parents one or both of them doing little work, more are at the unemployment office, and household income is changing from month to month. There's a birth problem that should change anyway. For example, a request for a child's allowance submitted let's say on Monday 1st of June, total income from 2011 and, of course, the mother of the child does not have the right to a child's allowance because she worked the previous year, and when she starts working again in 2013 she has the right to a child's allowance because she received a maternity allowance in the previous year. Consider all these comments and suggestions as a contribution and the initiative of the pensioners for a more efficient, efficient and up-to-date system for all to be satisfied, especially parents and citizens who ultimately pay for it. The HSU Club will support this amendment to the Children's Compensation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16281	I thank you. And I call upon the respected representative Bora Grubisic, he will speak on behalf of the HDSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The seemingly draft law that should not be debated because the ultimate goal and consequences that will arise by the adoption of this law are savings from a million 960, let's round to 2 million kuna. All of this is the consequence of saying one simplification of the notification process to those to whom the child's allowance belongs, so whether or not to inform those to whom it belongs. Part of those who are being reduced or ceases to pay for children will be notified. Out of the total amount of 3.5 million kuna that is now being allocated to say processing of data and postage, etc. 2 million kunas will be saved, those million and a half will remain in the function of processing and informing those to whom something is changing in that payment of allowances to children. After the random state and the true prosecution of its own people in Berlin when it is said that the Croatian nation is an incredible paradox and that it is not easy to keep it together, I still have to express it here because we can't be on the same wavelength, some of which I should say paradoxical things, but concerning government, administration and all that the owners of the Republic of Croatia are doing. Here is the very fact that the assessment of the situation says in the first sentence "that in the process of resolving the right to an allowance for children participates and decides HZMO" therefore a colleague from HSU is quite significant. So he decides, processes and sends notices to HZMO. Is that a paradox? Well, I'd say so. But it is much greater paradox that this same HZMO report here, so once a year about the state of business of HZMO, the Peace Fund, actually, reports only on various pages that more than 100 million non-retirement pensions are paid in Croatia, year after year. 100 million non-retirement pensions. Now look at the paradox that this 2 million kuna, or the relationship between this saved 2 million kuna on letters, stamps or I don't know what, paying the postage, is compared to over 100 million non-retirement pensions that are regularly paid every year. And when I asked the question as to how long and how long those reports will hold that figure that doesn't fall, despite the issues of MPs, and I personally noticed and discussed it here after this speaker, it remains. I don't think there's a need to talk about non-retired pensions, and it's not the subject of this bill today. But today we discussed here, or the session was interrupted, and a break was sought because some secretary of the Civil Faculty decided to enlist students and children, so children, our children, with an increase in the cost of tuition for 8400 kuna. And no one to say here, but it's also when I talk about children then and these are our children, that this secretary has had a rich experience at the Agency for Real Estate Traffic since '98. By 2004, when some estimates show that billions of kunas are clouded. So watch the paradox, 8400 kuna students, 150, cut and have to pay for it, today September 28th, and those six years APN, so popularly called, when, I will cover the picture deliberately by hand, so by false contracts Croatia lost a billion kuna. These are paradoxes, and it is not the Croatian nation paradox as Milanovic said, complaining about the Croats at Merkelica in Berlin. These are paradoxes that need to be solved by the administration, the state apparatus, the court, and the Croatian nation is not a paradox or is the child's allowance that we are discussing today. And he is a paradox in some way when we know that in a country that was at war 20 years ago and less than 20 years ago, when eastern Croatia and Podunavlje were finally returned to the Republic of Croatia 1.1.'98. year, so it is only 14 years that there has been integration of the entire Croatian territory, we are discussing a sum of 352 kuna child's allowance, and everyone says and swears that Switzerland could have been. I've never received it, such a censorship, I was a doctor, so I never did even have two children. The Croatian state left the war of one, the other, the third, with huge losses, mostly in '45. For years and above all, the male population had far more to be taken care of, not just in terms of the amount of the child's allowance. And these thank-yous I have made/enabled maternity benefits, I have made it possible for children, no matter what you have made possible, and every year fewer children are born. So why are fewer children born, and because of the material conditions in which your parents are, that is the essence of the population policy of the Republic of Croatia if we do not die out and disappear from the geographical map of this world. So look at how many kids are enrolled in first grade every year, so how many schools don't have enough first graders. And we're stuck here with 352 or 356 kuna, saving 2 million kunas, where and where is the purpose and the savings of 2 million kunas, if we're going to share it with those children who have the right to receive a child's allowance. Let it be four kunas, as Mrs. Roksandić said, a kilo of bread a kilo of bread, a loaf of bread, a loaf of bread. It doesn't say where that 2 million kuna is going. Let them go to the total amount of payment, so the total amount of money to pay the child's allowance. So we raise, then four kunas, four kunas, as much as it can be increased. But I guess that's going to go to the Treasury, so they're going to deploy the first vice-president of the government and the finance minister. Here are the paradoxes I wanted to talk to you about today, but there are many more interesting solutions that other countries have applied, which have had a similar history or at least a population loss mainly in wars, like France. I have said here after the pay phone hundreds of times that it is not only a child's allowance and maternity benefits that make up population policy, but also free children's kindergartens available for all children of the Republic of Croatia. I calculated how many countries would have to invest to allow every child in the Republic of Croatia until the 7th year of life a kindergarten, construction and stay in kindergarten, and that parents do not invest anything, so they do not carry anything into those kindergartens, they do not pay a fee. A billion kunas. Exactly how dark the APN was six years ago, just as much. Is that a paradox? I have another paradox of local character, and it's in Slavonski Brod mine. Two people work, one has a salary of 4000, another 3000 kuna, married couple. They have a child who pays for that 500 kuna census, and when a mother is fired then they have to pay 700 kuna. Imagine if it's a paradox, because there's a mother who doesn't work, so she can look after the baby. There's a paradox a lot in this country, only you should never let anyone say it, and especially sue in front of someone else's world your own people as paradoxal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16283	Thank you, Your Honor. You have one reported replica. Dear Representative Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16284	Well, since in this debate, we've been listening to some kind of view of the HDSB club about the statements made by our prime minister and their explanation of what the Prime Minister meant when he said this was a paradox country, so I might dare explain what the Prime Minister might have meant when he said that the Croatian country was full of paradox. Well, don't you think there's a great paradox in this country that the founder and president of a party you belong to is a man who's been convicted of war crimes? I think Prime Minister Milanovic is right if he thought of it, among other things, and I'm sure he meant it among other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16285	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, my dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16286	We're looking for a 10-minute break because first of all...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16287	Your Honor, be patient, don't lose your temper. Let your colleague replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16288	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16290	So it doesn't matter what your name is. My fellow MPs, here's a respected and respected one that you're distorting, so you're deliberately distorting the Prime Minister's words to improve the picture of what he said, and I'm going to quote you one more time. The Croatian nation is an incredible paradox and it is not easy to stick together. This mainly refers to the mental circuit and what is said in that sentence. Furthermore, when you ask mine, he is not the president, the president is Mr. Šišljagic but the founder of the HDSSB is our general and hero, Mr. Branimir Glavas, and we are not ashamed of him and we do not deny him, and if he had never been there, you would never have sat there. Remember that! Not all of us here and General Gotovina and General Markac and Norac, you wouldn't be sitting here for sure, ma'am, talking like you speak anti-Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16291	I'm sorry, Your Honor, your qualification is inappropriate for the House Speaker and the Assembly Atmosphere. You should respect that. You can't evaluate speeches or be invited to that. ... Let me just tell you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Don't take me for granted. You have no business right, no reason. Dear Representative Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16292	On behalf of the HDSSB club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes,... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16293	Please engage the honourable representative to enter the...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16294	So on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes because this is about insults that have been made on behalf of the founders of the HDSSB, as well as the entire Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16295	Honorable representative of Hope...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16296	On behalf of the HNS Club, we're looking for a break. We've had enough for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16297	Okay. Anyone else? And no one needs it anymore. I'm taking a five-minute break. I'm sorry, it's been 10 minutes since the Rules of Procedure. Here's 10 minutes. We'll be back at 11.35. On behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16299	I'm sorry there isn't, and here comes the lady. So first of all, I'm going to say to the public that HDSSB is not a party to a war criminal or Branimir is a war criminal. The president of the HDSB is Dr. Vladimir Šišljagic. All the representatives here at the HDSSB were participants in the Homeland War. The founder of the HDSSB is Croatian General Branimir Glavas, who was convicted in a mounted political process. A crown witness in this mounted political process led against him by Dr. or comrade Ivo Sanader and who was conducted solely for the reason that Branimir Glavas left HDZ to fight for a better life in Slavonia and Baranja. So, in the mounted political process, the crown witness Fehir was awarded an apartment of the same state in which he lives, according to the prime minister, a paradoxical people to be held together, who live in a random state, according to Prime Minister Milanovic, are unfortunately quoted by the prime minister. We do not live in a random state, nor is the Croatian state a random state, but it was also a desire for all Croatian citizens and this dream came true in the Homeland War. In May 2010, in the Sarajevo-based list "Days" on the cover of Mrs. Vesna Pusic says, take a good look at the cover of the Sarajevo list "Days", titled "The Homeland War Declaration should be marginalised." That speaks enough about what you, not wanting to attack the entire Croatian People's Party, which you and probably Mrs Pusic want to say about the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16300	Comrade Vinkovic, one small request.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16301	Take a look at this Sarajevo list of Days.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16302	No, no, I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16303	Because this is the answer to Mrs. Turin's claim that we're a party to a war criminal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16304	Allow me, I beg you nicely one sentence let me tell you. Let me have one sentence. Your verbal aggression against your colleagues isn't helping with the argument that you'd like to say in your party's defense. So we're...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16305	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I am not defending my party because most of the citizens of the non-random Slavonia and Baranja are behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16306	Okay, one more sentence. You don't have to defend that I don't force you to, but don't attack anyone else. I want us to finish and argue with arguments, not qualifications that you like or don't like.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16307	The bigger the argument when the current foreign minister told the Sarajevo-based list "Days" and it came out on the cover that the Homeland War Declaration should be marginalized. What's that? That's not a fact? That's enough talking about the relationship between certain persons in the HNS and beyond about the Homeland War. So here's what I'm asking you, but I'm asking all of you together, because some of you haven't left Parliament's session when General Gotovina's sentence was read. Is Ante Gotovina a war criminal? Is General Markac a war criminal? Were all those 204th Brigade Vulcans or all the Djakovians of the 122nd Brigade or all the members of the Homeland War were war criminals? Were they all, and according to this ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, they were all in paramilitary formations because it was the Supreme Court ruling that all those who were then fighting against the Serbian so-called. The Yugoslav People's Army against Milosevic and Greater Serbia were a paramilitary formation until 8.10.1991. Do you know Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament? And I argue, as my colleague Grubisic said, if it hadn't been for them and for us, because I'm part of the Homeland War, too, we wouldn't be sitting here. This is where Seselj would sit, Milosevic would sit if he hadn't died, and they wouldn't have thought about it to anyone about who's a war criminal and who's not a war criminal. I don't doubt that there were crimes in the Homeland War, but these are not the works of Branimir Glavas, Ante Gotovina and those who fought honorably for their home and created this Croatia. In a mounted political process, he was declared a war criminal. That's what you need to be clear about. And the truth is the water is deep and it will come out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16308	Thank you, too. ... You'll get a replica. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I'm warning you, Mr. Honorable Representative, for disqualifying the courts in the Republic of Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your point of view may be and you could have said it in my opinion, not the claim that you are categorically saying it here. So your opinion is only your opinion, not disqualification of the entire legal order and courts in the Republic of Croatia. I respect your opinion, but allow us not to serve your opinion as a claim. Thank you very much. You can't come with me, with the president's desk... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16309	Mr. President, I didn't disqualify the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16310	You didn't get the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16311	But that court disqualified all of us who were in the Homeland War. Because it turns out we were a paramilitary formation until 8.10.1991.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16312	Mr. Representative, is the Rules of Procedure and the request worth it to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16313	Is it true for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16314	Sit down, be nice and sit down and get some rest. Thank you very much. Dear representative of Hope, there is no replica of this exhibit. Hope Turina-Djuric please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16315	I'll be much shorter than a respected colleague. Since you were warned by Mr. President that you were shouting, or speaking out loud from this pay phone, to convince you of the truthfulness of your words. But for you, since it's not worth the law, it's not worth the constitution of this country and you've shown it and proven it by wearing the badges you have on your lapels. That you don't respect this country's legal system and if it's not a paradox. That one party that has representatives in the Croatian Parliament who make very important decisions together with us, make laws does not recognise the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. If it's not a paradox, then I don't know what it is. But it was just mine, trying to interpret what he might have meant in the replica of your colleague who talked about the paradoxes in a completely different way. And I won't be obliged, the HNS definitely can't accept this way of communication in the Croatian Parliament, continuous disqualification of colleagues from all clubs and from all parties. And the basic urge in my replica was a rebellion against such behavior. Even though you think that by shouting, raping, democracy in this House, you're going to achieve something. As far as the HNS is concerned, I must tell you in advance that at no time will you have the slightest support in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16316	Thank you very much. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16317	An article of two hundred others was injured. Since it offends the HDSSB's representatives here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16318	Excuse me, excuse me. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16319	Look at you changing this Rules of Procedure every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16320	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16321	I'm saying the HDSSB is not a war criminal party. This is where the insults were brought to the expense of all MPs. I repeat the question and direct it to the Croatian public, by decision of the Supreme Court until 8.10.1991, are all war criminals because it was written by the Supreme Court. Because Article 211 is an insult to me, to my father who was a participant in the Homeland War, and he was not in the paramilitary formation, as it stands in the Supreme Court's verdict. So we're celebrating Croatian Navy Day in September, so is that a paramilitary navy? I'm not the one who wants to marginalize the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16322	Are you turning this House into your property? Sit down, counselor, for God's sake, don't use it, don't make me use the powers of the Rules of Procedure. Sit down, you can't, again. So you will turn the Croatian Parliament into your property, you cannot, it is Parliament to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. All MPs are entitled to the Rules of Procedure, and you're entitled to it, you're entitled to it. To whose harm? It's too bad for the others. And no injured Rules of Procedure, nor did you state a provision, how are we going to make sure that the Rules of Procedure is injured? Now it's all over, the abuse you've done Thank you for having me, it's not about that, it's about the fact that the Croatian Parliament brought its Rules of Procedure, and you don't respect it, that's what it's about, Mr. Representative, that's what it's about. [[Intruder Vinkovic: the previous Rules of Procedure was much better than this one of yours.]] And if you won't appreciate what you're told, then say it so we don't bother, say it. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I really ask you, most kindly, to respect the Rules of Procedure, most kindly please. This respects both the citizens of Croatia and this Parliament. We're going to a debate. A HNS club and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric were registered for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16323	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister. Here's a few words about this law that the HNS will, of course, support, but maybe it's from another recurs in which it seems to me that Mr. Schamper of HSU spoke to me in the debate. This is about the fact that through increased efficiency of the public administration, direct savings are achieved for the Croatian budget and are released, means funds for use and guidance in another direction. Although these 2 million kunas, which are here to commend the ministry's proposal for children's allowance solutions. I think that even in our country, in our systems, we have a whole series of exactly that kind of situation where significant savings could come about, and if 2 million kunas weren't a little bit of money, here's just an illustration that would be about 250 scholarships, annual scholarships for our students. Of course, this is only one small step now and we in Croatia are thinking in a way that within all ministries, as well as the general public administration in the Republic of Croatia should do everything possible to increase the efficiency of the system, so that we can start from ourselves here in the Croatian Parliament. Because if we could evaluate this categorically, at this point on our tables there's probably more than two hundred pounds of paper and so on, and under the benches that we've thrown, there's probably more paper. You know exactly how much one sheet of paper costs. The MPs have all received, or entrusted, portable computers and perhaps one of the first steps would be if those representatives who know and want to use the computer, and they do not need to deliver materials on the table in this House first. I think he's here, so the Parliament Service could give us the information that's in the money supply. At the same time, along with these papers, of course big money is invested in informing the entire system, all of our institutions, and it is finally time to take this step and start using that information in full scope. Of course, there would be a whole series of recommendations, any memo sent by any association of any external institution to the institutions of the system for it opens shirts. That yellow shirt of them is probably in this country hundreds of millions. How much each individual costs, and you know it. So this is one good start here for every commendation to go into that kind of savings is to be totally determined to do it. At all levels of the system and of course the HNS will contribute to the new public administration and the footing of the way they bring and save, save us not only the money but also the time, of course, to support this law. [[Intruder: colleagues and colleagues, a little attention and respect for their colleague.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16324	Thank you, too. We thus exhausted the list of clubs in the Croatian Assembly reported for this debate. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. Martina Banic is the only and first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16325	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna start my argument differently than I thought. I must say, I'm really sorry that such an important topic as the Children's Extra Act ended up on the verge of an incident. Well, I'm sorry that people who work well at local levels in the city of Osijek, for example. as coalition partners that I can't agree on in this House of Commons. Well, I might suggest that it would be good for my colleague, Agent Vinkovic, to meet with Mrs Pusic, so perhaps in that way we could solve this problem that has come to pass today. But here I am going back to the topic we're discussing. In the constitution of the Republic of Croatia, "the family is under special protection from the state. The allowance for children is part of family support and is intended for child support. The user of the allowance is a parent or other person who determines the law." With the bill we're discussing today, my colleague, please, can I just say it all the way? I think it's low for you to come into my word all the time. Here, that's right. What I'm saying is that the amendments to the law that we're discussing today, of course, I support. But when it comes to family support, I think it is important to highlight what has been done over the past 8 years in order to strengthen the situation of the family and in order for young people to choose to start a family. In 2004, a proposal for a National Population Policy was adopted to stop the negative demographic processes in Croatia, and in 2006, a further step was made by adopting a strategic document of the National Population Policy. Furthermore, for the purpose of fostering natural growth in 2004, the amendments to the rules increased the birth benefits for all unemployed mothers from 900 to 1600 kuna, and for working mothers during the use of supplementary maternity leave until the first year of the child's life the compensation was raised from 1600 kuna to 1600 kuna. Also unemployed mothers are maternity leave from 6 months to the first year of a child's life, and all mothers who have given birth to twins, third and next children are allowed to use maternity leave until the third year of child's life. In 2007, there is an increase in payment fees for children, maternity benefits and child-bearing equipment, and introduces a promising supplement for the 3rd and 4th child-user extra for grandfather. At that time, the minimum amount of allowances for children was raised and three income classes were introduced instead of two at the time, which determined the individual amount of income. An extremely important measure of national population policy in the area of the family support system was taken into force by the Law on maternity and parental support in January 2009. This law introduces a number of news that promotes quality parenting and greater involvement of fathers in raising and raising a child. All births and parents, regardless of working status, exercise the right to maternity and parental support, the right to financial assistance during maternity and parental care. A newborn child is also accomplished by the mother’s parent outside the system of work. Unemployed mothers who use the right to parental leave to work shall have the right to transfer this right to another unemployed parent or unused part of the right to parental leave from work to continue to use for the case of unemployment. Parent leave can be used until the 8th year of a child’s life, and parents decide how to use it. The right to adoption leave now has all adoptors. Self-employed parents were entitled to leave until the 8th year of their child's life or to work part-time for child care with severe developmental disorders. It also increased the amount of compensation during the use of parental leave for 6 months. From the previous 2,500 thousand kuna to 80% of the budget base. Fellow colleagues, these are just some of the measures taken to protect the family and to help primarily young families. I believe that we all agree that investing in the family is an investment in the better future of Croatia, that it is an investment in the economy. The crisis that has affected Croatia's daily gatherings in many ways has a profound impact on the lives of all citizens, especially children. People, parents lose their jobs every day without income, which affects children’s quality of life as well. Therefore, it is necessary for the state to protect children, motherhood and youth and to create social, cultural, educational, material and other conditions that promote the right to a decent life to which we are bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16326	Thank you, too. The honourable MPs to your presentation have reported four replicas. The first is the replica of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16327	You see, an esteemed colleague said she's surprised we can't make a deal where we're in a coalition with the HNS. We can make a deal because I don't tie individuals to the whole party. But I was surprised by Mrs Banic in the previous meeting of the Parliament while you were the spokeswoman of the government with whom you were all in the coalition and what kind of laws you wanted to bring about this Croatian Assembly, so one law was also on the rights of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I remind myself that I was also clapped by HDZ representatives at the time when I called the Serbian national minority's proposal to go before the amendments to the Republic of Croatia's constitution by creating a new SAO landscape. You see, it surprised me that you didn't recognize it at the time. And thanks to Zoran Vinkovic and HDSSB, at the end of the day and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, such a law has not passed. Although he had a number of others called conditional alternations that would contribute to the new creation of the SAO landscape in the Republic of Croatia and that law could no longer change. And what someone wanted with the Homeland War, and by the Supreme Court verdict, we were all paramilitary formations until 8.10.In '91, that didn't work. That's what I was surprised at.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16328	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm a little prone to what my colleague Banic said, and now I've heard Mr. Vinkovic. It's really strange not to be angry that the two parties that work so closely in Osijek here are thus accusing each other. So, I don't know why Mr. Radoš is rebelling and angry because HDSSB and HNS are in Osijek in the coalition, and here the representative of the HNS says that the HDSSB does not respect the Supreme Court and the state of Croatia and that it is a war criminal party. So what is this principle, these people have been complaining to HDZ all along, and this way honoring each other with insults and inappropriate words. I'm sorry, I had to act as an agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16330	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16331	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Banic, I'm glad you pulled this parallel which is done, what has been done and what efforts have been made to improve the quality of life of children and how much effort it takes to improve that quality. Of course, today in these circumstances the effort needs to be tripled, of course in circumstances where prices, when VAT has grown, when they are regardless of that model that baby food can be cheaper etc. They have been proven by experts who need food for children, etc. Surely this moment requires a special engagement in that sensitive segment. Of course we welcome this part to also protect Croatian forests and reduce costs, to save that they are as such, undeniable of course. And that units of local self-government each in its own way make certain efforts to improve the situation in this sensitive area. But we must also very clearly say that many are also tied hands, the funds are reduced in accordance with tax policy, that children mainly in these rural areas come very difficult conditions and very hard to live on, and especially those in the family farms that are in difficult circumstances and very hard to live and are on the edge of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16332	Thank you, Your Honor. The fourth replica and respected representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16333	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll take some time off and abuse the replicas institute, but with the same positive goal. Today, as we discussed this law, one of our colleagues became a father, one of our young colleagues got his first daughter, I ask him to get up to congratulate him all together and wish him and his child well-being. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16334	Congratulations from the President's desk. My colleague Vasic is also congratulated on the Presidential Table and I am pleased that Parliamentarians in the Croatian Parliament have spirit and good relations. Keep it that way, no matter what the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Final word, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Darko Ledinsky.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'm taking the opportunity to join the congratulations on behalf of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, and I'm sure that since my colleague is a parliamentary representative, he won't be a child's extra. Let me, on behalf of the promoter, thank all those who have discussed the subject that I have raised, so on the proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the Law on Child Supplement, with the final proposal of the law, to thank all those who have spoken about this item of the agenda and to thank for all the suggestions that you have made to us, which are very useful and that we will certainly take care of. When you talk about these 2 million kuna savings and when you advise us to spend them on users, then we accept this advice but it is about the definition that comes from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, Ms Milanka Opačić and all of us, her associates, that every kuna in our budget, which is greater than 6 billion must be primarily directed towards users, that savings are not allowed to be made on users or for what belongs to users. And on the other hand, we have an obligation to make savings in all indirect costs, and to make it more for the users, or for the man. This is one example, 2 million are not small money, and if in our ministry and in all other ministries this trend continues, and here were very useful examples today, we will be able to do a lot of things in the system. When it comes to issues and objections related to the development of the welfare system, then let me take this opportunity and thank you once again for the adoption of the Social Care Act that this House adopted on 8 March this year. This allowed us to save the system of social care and the most socially endangered person in the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately there was no such one, from the almost complete collapse that threatened us at that time because we managed to establish the abolished welfare centres throughout Croatia, 80 of them, which are the basic levers of active work and direct contact with the user throughout the Republic of Croatia. I just want to point out that we couldn't read anything in the media about this big job that lasted during the 5th and 6th months because it was uninteresting because everything went well. No social assistance, no children's allowance, no maternity compensation, no social kuna was late for any user, although it was a huge and very demanding job that we had to do in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Moreover, the costs spent on this extremely important thing, so to establish the abolished Social Care Centre, were much lower than the costs involved in their abolition. The second thing I want to say is that we have succeeded and you have had opportunities to be informed and also by the Minister of Social Policy and Youth Milanka Opačić, to launch the information of the social care system that is now in the city of Zagreb, and in the coming months 40 million kuna has been spent on the work in the entire Republic of Croatia despite the fact that we have found a completely uninformed and unrelated system, although 40 million kuna has been spent to inform the social care system over the past six years. So 20 times as much as we're going to save today by making these amendments to the law. So we were able to do a job in less than a year that hasn't been done in six years, and what's important to say we managed to do it without a single kuna cost. So the final cost is that 40 million kuna that was spent before for information. The information that has now functioned is the final cost of 40 million kunas without even a new spent kuna. One and the other, centres for the establishment of centres and the final connection of the system, but not only within the ministry but also with the Tax Administration and the other. And preparing to amend the social care law we promised from this pay phone on March 8th will allow savings in our ministry to continue. In doing so, none of the users will receive any kuna, nor will one kuna be taken away from them. Social kunas will indeed be given to those who are most in need, and all of this we have been talking about will allow us not only to retain the existing level of social rights but also to significantly increase them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16336	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have three replicas on your display. He's the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Ledinski, I don't understand how you can come for the Croatian Parliament's pay phone and speak such lies. For information, the social care information project is a project the ministry has been working with the World Bank. It's the World Bank's money and then you come ad hoc that someone spent money like this. So do you really think the World Bank would allow that? And then at the end of the story, you guys ended it without a swear. So I don't understand how you can do information without a kuna? So someone had to prepare something before that. The other thing is a hundred and a few more centers, and do you really think two months from now that you can do it? It is not good for the Croatian public, it is not good for the sake of international financial institutions that help us to simply tell the truth and say that you have done something that you have not done without admitting that the predecessors have done what they have done.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16338	Thank you very much. Do you want a reply to the replica or wait? Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy, just what my colleague Shucker said. You've brought out a whole series of incorrect information. First, for the public who listens to us today, your statement that you've re-established the abolished Social Care Centre is not correct. It was founded under the previous law that you have abolished the County Department of Social Services just established to unite all social aid and facilitate. But the centers weren't completely shut down. They were branches. And it is certain that by only one decision or by one of the amendments to the article, you have restored them again. That's why it wasn't expensive or costing anything. And the fact that you changed that part of the law is why, to re-name your principals, your board of directors. That was the only reason and we have to admit it to ourselves. Because everything that came after that has come down to the appointment of new directors of the Centre for Social Care and New Governance Councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16340	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16341	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's not clear to me, Deputy, I've been following the debate all morning, and one single question has been asked to tell us why the government violates the law itself proposed to this House and adopted in March this year, and the law says that the Minister, on a proposal from the Governing Councils of County, appoints four members of the Board of Directors of the Centre for Social Care. But it has been a practice since day one, that the minister does not respect the law but asks the county's proposal for only one member while the remaining three members themselves are appointed. In doing so, such acts are illegal. The appointment of directors appointed by the Administrative Board is also illegal. I want to ask you why you are doing this, because all such solutions will be illegal and the appointment of a director will be illegal, which means that practically the whole procedure called the Administrative Council is not in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16342	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, Deputy Minister Darko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16343	Therefore, the Social Welfare Act of 8 March 2012 adopted by this House allowed the establishment of the Social Care Centres which did not exist in the former law to be established again or at the beginning. Therefore, there was no social care centre in Croatia and the Social Care Act of 8 March 2012 created a legal possibility to be established in both registers and in all procedures by new legal entities called the Social Care Centres and these were founded 80 throughout the Republic of Croatia. I explained the purpose and intention of setting up these centers. When it comes to the inquiry, your inquiry with regard to the Administrative Board of Centres, and the selection of directors, i.e. the Director of the Social Care Act, is scheduled for three members to be appointed by the founder and, on behalf of the founder, is the founder of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. So, on behalf of the founders, that makes it the minister of social policy and youth, that's true. One member is appointed by the minister on a proposal from the county where the centre is established, and one member comes from the ranks of workers. The Social Care Act, which is in force, fully respects the procedure, and all members of the Boards of Directors of the newly established Centre for Social Care are appointed in full compliance with the applicable Social Care Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16344	Thank you very much, Deputy Secretary. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Branko Bačić. In what? What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Ledinsky incorrectly met the members of the Parliament, and he misread Article 120 of the Fourth Law. Therefore
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16346	Your Honor,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16347	This Regulation shall enter into force
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16348	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16349	Let me read it, just read the article, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16350	You're losing your right to harm, Article 214, you're losing your right to this session. Don't be angry, but it's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16351	A representative of the government didn't exactly state the law, so let me read that article. That's all I'm asking you to do, and that's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16352	You don't have a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16353	Well, he made a lie, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16354	Thank you very much. Thank you all for the debate, for respecting the Rules of Procedure for those who respected it, and for those who do not mention that the highest court in politics is the court of the public. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Extra charge for children, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 153, the debate on the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I am unanimous, with 110 votes for the adopted Law amending and supplementing the Law on Extra for Children in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16357	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, at the 14th session of the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, made a proposal for a Decision appointing the president and members of the "Ivan Filipović" award committee and ending the term of office of president and members of the Committee of the Award "Ivan Filipović". In the Committee of the Awards "Ivan Filipović" are named as president Professor Dr. Valter Bjeljunčić, for the members of the magistrate Edita Stilin, Dr. Petar Bezinović, Marijan Šimek, professor of Dr. Josip Milat, professor of Dr. Drago Roksandić, professor of Dr. Margita Pavlekovic, master of Vera Šutalo and Zoran Feric. Members of the "Ivan Filipović" Award Board, appointed from the beginning of the term of office on 23 April 2010, ceased their term of office during the two-year legal period of 23 April 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16358	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I would like to vote on the proposal for a decision on appointment. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I set out unanimously with 109 votes for a decision on the appointment of the president and members of the "Ivan Filipovic" award committee and the termination of the term of office of president and members of the "Ivan Filipovic" award committee in the text as proposed by the proposal. Thank you very much. At the end of the day before I wish you a good weekend and a rest regular business notice. We start working on Tuesday 2.10., 2 October with item 22 of the agenda – Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Social Activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 158th and so on. This concludes today's session. Have a nice weekend, good vacation. I'll see you Tuesday at the plenary session. I'm asking the committees on Monday to call a session and work Monday. Thank you very much. - The election, appointments and resolutions of the President of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Honored Representative Shim Lucin to submit reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee at its 16th session held on 11th of this month established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. 1, President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament Josip Leko is hereby resolved. 2., Pedja Grbin is elected president of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16361	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Are there any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 119 votes, the motion for a decision was unanimously adopted. Congratulations on your chosen colleague. I wish you a lot of success, dear colleague. [[Applause.]] Please, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16362	The proposal for a decision on the resolution and the chair of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament was also established. The head of the Office of President of the Croatian Parliament, Nada Milak, is hereby dismissed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16363	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state by raising your hand who is for the proposed decision. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's abstentioned? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find it unanimous with 119 votes for the proposed decision. Next call.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16364	This is a proposal for a decision to appoint the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament. The head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament is named Đurđica Prelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16365	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please raise your hand and state who's in. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I find it unanimous with 119 votes for the proposed decision. Congratulations to the chosen one. That concludes the vote. - The election, appointments and resolutions of the Vice-President of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, the Honorable Representative Mladen Novak, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16367	President, but the president didn't give me any authority or tell me what he said or what was agreed on, so I don't think this is right either.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u16368	I'm sorry, sir. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We have a report on the benches, I'll read the motion decision. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament Josip Vuković is hereby authorised. Mirela Holy is elected member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting forward a motion for a vote. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Who's against it? Is anyone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 123 votes, a proposed decision has been made. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament Tomislav Karamarko is hereby dismissed. Frano Matušić is elected member of the Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. The proposed decision was made by a majority of votes, with 123 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. The members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament are elected: Dragan Crnogoorac and Mirela Holy. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting forward a motion for a vote. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 124 votes, the proposed decision has been made. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Višnja Fortuna is elected member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I put the proposed decision to the vote. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 125 votes in favour, the proposed decision has been made. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. Mile Horvat is elected as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament. I'm opening a debate. No interest? I'm closing the debate and putting the motion for a decision to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 125 votes for the proposed decision. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. Dr Mirela Holy is elected as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature of the Croatian Parliament. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting forward a motion for a vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 125 votes for the proposed decision. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament of Višnja Fortun is hereby authorised. Ljiljana Cvjetović is elected as a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 125 votes for the proposed decision. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament Franjo Matošić is hereby dismissed. Zvonko Milas is elected as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting forward a motion for a vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 125 votes for the proposed decision. Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and a member of the National Council for Water. For the president of the National Water Council, Igor Dragovan is named. As members of the National Water Council, it is appointed from the ranks of representatives Šima Lučin, Sandra Sandra Petrovic, Silvano Hrelja, Petar Baranovic, Mile Horvat, Tomislav Ivić and Ivan Shantek. From the ranks of prominent scientists and experts, water management workers and related areas of Luka Čuljak, Mijo Đolan, Mladen Marić. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate and putting the motion for a decision to the vote. I'm asking you to plead by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes 115 in favour and 10 against the proposed decision has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17022	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of HINA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17023	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Since this point has not been discussed on the Media Committee, we propose that there be no vote this week on the decision but rather that it be postponed so that both the Selection and Appointing Committee and the Media Committee can discuss it. I think we had a very important debate here when it came to the HINA status report, we think that would be good. What will the Media Committee discuss if they don't talk about HINA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17024	I must say that you have had time to discuss, you have not held a debate, and there is no obstacle to deciding at the plenary session on the proposal that you received on the agenda. I suggest we hold a vote on the motion for a decision. Dear Representative Vuksic reporting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17025	Here I am reporting as chairman of the Media Committee. It is common for the government to refer the materials to the interested and parent committee so that they can discuss it. We didn't get it, we only saw it on the agenda and it's out of practice. Therefore, we demand that you...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17026	I can find out that the government has delivered all the MPs, which is then thought to have been delivered to the board. ... Do you have anything new to say? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17027	Mr. Vice President, this is a really unusual practice. We don't mind any suggestions, but we just don't know until now, we haven't had a chance to see who signed up or how he applied. It's impossible to vote on it. The HDZ Club can't vote on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17028	But Mr. Honorable Representative, you have everything in your materials and you could have made a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17029	It's not like that. Nothing's gonna happen to God in a week.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17030	You don't have to run. No, no, let me just tell you that we have a deal. There's nothing against the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And you got the materials, but from good business practice we'll stop, we won't vote on this proposal, we'll vote on Tuesday, Wednesday. But I must conclude that it has entered the procedure as provided for by the Rules of Procedure, that there was time to hold meetings and that it was necessary to make a statement today on the proposal. Thank you very much. Is there anything to say to the committee responsible for the election, the appointments?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17031	- a) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, - b) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency, - c) Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. The motion for a decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The law on Croatia reports to the news agency. What don't you hear? We'll do it again. We'll determine. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. The proposed decision shall be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 11. The HINA Act is proposed by the decision-makers. You've received the motions for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Deputy Minister respected Borislav Shipus. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a motion for a decision to resolve it first, to plead by raising our hands. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 87 for, 34 against and 1 abstentions, have been made to decide on the resolution of part of the members of the Administrative Council of HINA in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Would you please step up your hand and state who's in favor? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 90 for, 24 against and 6 abstentions, have been decided to appoint part of the HINA Board members in the text as proposed by the applicant. Thank you very much. Let's move on. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the Board of Directors of the Staff. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that it is unanimous with 121 votes for the decision to appoint a member of the HINA Management Council as a member of the Staff Committee in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17032	We are now going to propose a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting Agency and B) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the part of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting Agency. Fellow Members and colleagues, we will repeat the vote for these proposals because last time we missed the vote on the 12th of October. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act on the Croatian Reporting Agency is set to vote individually on each proposed member of the Governing Council, to vote individually. We received this warning from the HDZ Representatives' Club, and we thank you for that. Can we approach the vote individually? There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17033	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we have tabled a proposal to supplement the agenda, to first put off these two decisions that were last Friday's vote for these reasons which you stated were not passed in the legal way. Namely, the special law applicable here is the HINA Act, which requires the selection of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency by a single vote on each candidate. We are confident that this is also true for the resolution of the current council, and therefore we have asked for the first agenda of this emergency session because of the possible adverse consequences of our proposals to put these decisions out of force so that we can vote individually after the new one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17034	I understand your proposals and good intentions, but I would like to inform you that the vote on the 12th of June did not produce any legal effect because the acts take effect when they are published, so I suggest that, as I have suggested, the act of individual voting eliminates the results that we had on the 12th of October. So that's why I said now that we are voting again on the same proposal in line with the HDZ Club's proposal to do it individually on each member because last time we voted on decisions, not on individuals. I think that's okay. Thank you very much. Can we? Open up a debate? ... Yeah, yeah, we'll open up a debate, okay. We are opening a debate on the proposal for decisions on the resolution and appointment of members. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Excuse the representative who's involved with the motionor? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The conclusion you're proposing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17035	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Given that it is the President of the Parliament and that we have included this new proposal to conclude that today's vote we feel obliged to further explain this request. We feel this is due because we don't think this is the only thing we don't adhere to in this House of Special Law on Croatia report news agency. The HINA Act clearly defines in its articles both cocoa and in which cases there is a resolution of members of the Governing Council. It's clearly in article 13 of the same law, and we talked clearly about it when we discussed the HINA report here in this House. Unfortunately, we didn't get a chance to hear anyone from that agency. We did not give them the opportunity to defend their report, which was rejected by most votes, but at that time we explained that the same board of directors was constantly obstructing the work, that they were not allowed to adopt a restructuring plan, that they were not allowed to adopt a financial plan. I have clear statements from the same people who are trying to resolve here today that they have been trying for months, and despite the rushes, it has failed to make a meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Ministry of Culture to agree on a financial plan. I remind you of my colleagues and colleagues, I remind you that this morning and last month and month before that and a year ago, a little less than a year ago, when we chose this administrative council, we insisted on a consensus. We insisted on a consensus of names that were elected to the administrative council. That's why we had him in this high house. That's when I defended that proposal and got back from the opposition. Together, we decided that we should go into the restructuring plan, that HINA's not going well on which we all agree, that changes should be introduced, that new processes should be introduced and that it should be looked for a way to make HINA strong and relevant again. What happened to colleagues and colleagues in less than a year? Except that people are not allowed to do their job until the end, why in some ways we couldn't listen to them here when they were doing their report and whether they submitted this request in accordance with Article 13 on their own request, whether they resigned, whether they violated the law or other regulations. If they did, then we'd really like to hear what it is. If that's what you'd like to hear because when the board met to discuss it, then a colleague from the Ministry of Culture didn't explain why these people were calling off. Is the dean of the Faculty of Philosophy who is otherwise an expert in information science, whether the director of the Lexicography Institute deserved to call them off without reason. We're not talking about people who are coming, compare end-to-end résumés of each other, compare. We don't mind any suggestions, we'd like it to be capacity and this time, if those names were brought in by such a political consensus. It would strengthen the position of HINA in the future, which would strengthen those processes that must inevitably happen there. And a restructuring plan and a different organisation of work and a better life. Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17036	Thank you, Your Honor. On your show, we have a replica of the respected representatives of the Sun Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, of the 4 proposed members of the HINA Board, I must say that, except that we have almost unlawfully confirmed this 4 members of the irregularities were first cooked by the Ministry of Culture, who did not respect the law and obligations of the invitation to tender for members of the Governing Council of HINA, which issued on 10 August of this year, I will explain why. Therefore, the call for a public tender in paragraph 4 states that it is mandatory to attach to the application a résumé and a statement by the candidates that it is not in conflict of interest within the meaning of point 2 of the public call, as well as a copy of the diploma, the work book and any other evidence of compliance with the conditions set out in the public call. It's all strictly stated, of course. For technical reasons, one candidate says he can't deliver a copy of the work book, and I'll just remind him of a similar case, which was in HNK in Zagreb where, for the same reason, several times, they were disqualified and disqualified candidates for the same reason. It is equally not clear from the tender documentation in one candidate or more precisely whether one or at least two persons are concerned. Namely, the candidate in the résumé under one last name writes that he was born in 1964, in a diploma proposed by the second name, but also the second date of birth in 1959. So I'm asking you to vote on these persons, colleagues and colleagues, let's be serious, so we don't even know if it's one person or two. And I also want to know what the public's reaction will be to all these failures, so who passed the first Ministry of Culture, then the government's procedures and finally came to the Croatian Parliament when we finally had the opportunity to talk about it. Mr. President, these aren't small details, we're major irregularities, let's think about how we're going to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17038	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17039	Dear colleague Glavak, you've given this problem a good point. This is obviously not the first public tender that may have to be annulled for this if there are any complaints in this regard. It's obviously not the first time we've come here for hasty, because of the laziness of the problem, and so little effort has taken us to come to some political consensus. We're all aware of the problem and where in the future we have to go, we talked about it together here when we had a report on HINA's business. What to tell you when you've been here for almost nine months you can't come up with a financial plan. It's a long way from what we've been trying to do, so we've organized elections in the same agency with employees, internal elections, voting to elect our own representative, and we didn't want to impose it, although we could because we had most hands. We didn't do that. So I'm very sorry, fellow Members, that this practice in this house has not been created, if it is adequate...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17040	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17041	Your Honor, Mr. President. I would just like to say very briefly that if we are now voting to resolve the existing members of the board of directors we will do the opposite of the law and it should be clear to all of us, so we will unlawfully replace them. We will also be against the law if we vote on the election of new members for other reasons, but again by law, we are illegally selecting new members. I don't think it's good for this House of Commons either, but more so when they were appointed and appointed by consensus, and now you can't really get the impression that, by breaking the law and by breaking their changing one and the occasion of others' appointments, you actually want to do again what is unfortunately every so much done, that some who I don't know by which criteria you wouldn't be alike because they're very prominent persons chosen by re-consensually, so you mention the Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy and the director of the Lexicography Institute, etc., no one can dispute that they're neither politically colored on one side, nor that they're unrespectable persons, want to be replaced and put on the other side, and yet very clearly define with one goal that then, even the removed director of HINA, which was very clearly indicated and announced in advancely announced. So I don't think it would be good, no matter what majorization can accomplish, that the shifts are illegally and named illegally for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17042	Thank you very much. The following has been registered for discussion by the respected representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the Croatian Labourists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17043	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. When we had a debate about HINA in Parliament, we were unanimous that the work being done in HINA was wrong. We spoke unanimously of HINA as an agency that doesn't have its own profile, which is bad in content and bad in business. If it's bad content, bad business of the administrative council that should have been gone. No one disputes the reputation of the previous board of directors and we haven't discussed it at all. However, the Administrative Council of HINA has not done its job well, and therefore, the administrative council should also, in the opinion of the majority of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, be replaced, and I hope that that is the view of colleagues who even jump into their mouths who have said that it is bad in HINA. I ask them who's to blame for the bad situation in HINA if it's not the administrative council? What is the task of the Governing Council? All the time, it's been a political cleanup, and I'm often unhappy with the political majority's decisions, but this time I think they're right. This time I think and I agreed with theirs, I joined their conclusions, or they're totally ours anyway, and I don't think we should politicize because I think this is HDZ politicizing. After-so leaving HINA's poor functioning under the pretext of political cleanup, except HINA still has to stay for what? In order to remain respected members of the Governing Council, they should remain in the Governing Council. No one, I repeat again, dispute their reputation as no one is likely to question the reputation of people who, if voted so, will be in the new board of directors. Before me, Mr Jasen Mesic said it was the conclusion of a parliamentary debate that could be carried out that changes should be introduced, that new processes should be launched. So what hasn't the administrative council done? The board had enough time to do it in HINA. There are no preconditions for HINA starting to act, operating in a new environment, to be a competition for new media, and in some sense there must be competition, it must be launched. HINA is still working on the TANJUG principle today, and that's not allowed. And certainly the new administrative council that will be to submit a report to this House after six months, which has made it possible for Mr Mesic and Mr Mesic to introduce changes and to launch new processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17044	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reported 5 replicas to your short exposure. The first is a respected representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17045	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Vuksic, I am truly sorry that you do not understand what this is about and what we have been warning about. So we warned that a failure was made, that the Croatian Parliament should vote individually on the resolution, and then attesting every new member of the Governing Council of HINA. So let's not get off the subject. We're not talking business here and the results of the board. So that's not the point. Either you deliberately don't understand or you simply want this to go away as soon as possible and vote as proposed. We've equally warned about the documentation, and that concerns the board that you're headed to where we can say that for one reason or another, I'm not going to go into it right now. Third thing, when you mention TANJUG, please look at how this agency works. Don't mention it, TANJUG is a very respectable agency just like we want HINA to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17046	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17047	Mrs. Glavak, I least expect you to teach me this job I've been in for 33 years. Another thing, who doesn't understand? He doesn't understand your colleague Mesic. He's off topic. He started talking about what we were talking about at the debate. He didn't just stick to those facts, he started politicizing, so I responded to that politicization of the facts of what we were saying. So, if you'd just kept at it, but you wanted to take your five minutes to politicize and to keep HINA on ad act. Or to tell the people that there's a political cleanup here. This is not a political cleanup, and further whether it will be legally founded or not corresponds to the President of the Croatian Parliament, that is, the chairman and he will decide which way or most of them will vote or not. At this point, I think it's also the least important thing to you to vote in rather than just to draw attention to what's not essential. First of all, I was talking about the old TANJUG who... Based on that level of former TANJUG until the '90s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if you think that today is relevant then our understanding of journalism and agency journalism is contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17048	Thank you, too. The next replica, respected representative of Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17049	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I have a replica of the presentation of my colleagues and the chairman of the board. When this decision first appeared in the House, there was no committee that you were president of. And you were supposed to react first, too. Because such a decision to come to the House vote without discussing it on the parent board is unprecedented. I came to you as a colleague then, if you remember. While the law is the way you can have agreements, you can have the same attitudes, you can have a majority attitude, but you have a duty to uphold the law. The fact that we are legally right and that we have pointed out the correct legal procedure also confirms that the President of the Parliament has accepted our club's proposal. And by insisting on the principles that we have insisted on and on the board, I remind you, what we insist on here is saying that we have a clear view of it. And the fact that we're aware that the HINAs need to help be better, that's proof that and then we wanted a unanimous decision, a decision on political consensus 10 months ago in this house. Not to make it bad, but to make it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17050	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17051	Dear fellow Mesic I love temperamental people, otherwise you're not, today you've been temperamental. First of all, don't talk, before you get your hands on what I need you to let me do, which I need you to leave to me. I reacted and asked to vote. So don't politicize, overly politicize in a negative context, we're talking in a negative context that we don't expect from you, from others, yes, but from you. I think you've been preprincipled so far. I say again, and for an individual vote, as president of the Information Committee, I spoke here as, not as the chairman of the board, but as a representative of the Croatian Labourist. And above all, I am in order to respect the process of democracy, I am in favour of individual voting and those who are being replaced, that is to say, change whatever you want and those who are being set up. So I'm not talking about it, but I'm talking about the whole time trying to draw attention to HINA's poor work, and that's why HINA's administrative council needs to be replaced and set up a new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17052	Thank you very much. Next, 3 replicas and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17053	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, where did she come from, say this is one procedural mistake we're talking about today? Is that, and I don't believe that ignorance is a misunderstanding? I'm saying I don't believe it, and I don't think so. Before it was about the haste, one haste to take control of HINA as soon as possible in the reformed Administrative Council package and, in fact, politically through the second Governing Council. That should be made clear and loud. Speaking of issues of HINA, then you must know, and no one will say here, that many other agencies in the Republic of Croatia are private, supported by the law that gives them and allows only 10% of VAT in their work. Unlike HINA, who pays full VAT 25% for his services. Do you know that? So 15% of the tax start is HINA cut off. The own State Agency destroys its own, own state destroys its own agency reportedly. So is it normal, is it anywhere in the world? You're talking about TANG, you want to talk about Reuters, who do you want to talk to? So do you know that for these other agencies, private and media 105 VAT, and for HINA 25%? So where's that? And you're talking about the bad business of HINA and the mess? Well, even so, HINA has its own development program, HINA has established new programs, but clearly it needs to develop them. If we here who decide to help them. I won't talk about names, I don't care who's in the administration, I won't be, and there won't be anyone in my environment. But to say loud and clear once that the ultimate goal is, in fact, some kind of, not some way, but I would say maybe too rough, shutting down, destruction of HINA as a Croatian news agency, which has been done just through this VAT and all the other actions that are being done in this country, and to the detriment of HINA-E. Here's what I'm gonna tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17054	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17055	Mr Grubisic, first of all, you are discussing today as if the debate on HINA had begun today. When you're accusing someone, you'd have to deal with the facts. Just what you were saying I warned in my debate and the Croatian Labour Club and on behalf of the Labour Club about VAT 25%, about how HINA should be held. I don't believe that the majority of Parliament, which I don't defend, is rarely known when I speak so that it wants to destroy HINA. Who left 25% or 23% of HINA taxes? Who is it? So SDP and HDZ then wanted to destroy HINA together, then be true. How did a procedural error happen, you don't believe it was a mistake? I'm not getting into it, maybe it's not intended, maybe it's intended. If it was done in a hurry, it wasn't, it should have been done three months ago. HINA doesn't work, and you'd want to do the same now based on this, I don't know half-information, anything, political attitude to claim that it wants evil HINA and because bad administration is changing, bad administration is changing, it's bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17056	Thank you very much. Next replica, Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17057	Comrade Vuksic, you're right. The theme is very clear, but it is deliberately and very tendingly politicized. It's clear as a day that it's a procedural matter, not a debate on HINA or her report. To us that he's been singing here and giving a hand to someone who's brought HINA on his knees in the last 10 years, it's highly unacceptable. It is that the Croatian Parliament first rejected the HINA report and defined who was to blame for it. Second, he obliged the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out the procedure of replacing members of the Administrative Council. And today, we can only and exclusively, and we have to do a task that we have already set ourselves up with most of the votes in this house. So, if a procedural error has been observed, whoever noticed it and suggested thank you, but there is no need to go over it. We need to approach the vote and do our duty properly because we are responsible as the House for HINA. Therefore, this politicisation and this obstruction of this process, which only has political interests, is highly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17058	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. We're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm sorry if we heard all these grades and maybe it would be a lot nicer if you said in your introduction, we were wrong, we're wrong about human beings, we're accepting a correction, it can be settled in a legitimate way. I don't think we should get used to it. Instead of talking about what was the problem, all the critics of this issue at all took the right to talk about how this was politicizing, how the legal validity of the document would be decided by the President of the Parliament, I couldn't write down all the quotes, but I don't think it matters. I'd like to say what I think matters. And now in the materials you have related to this item of the agenda, you have no material as to how the law prescribes that it should look. And that's what we were talking about when we asked that the decisions we made a week ago, and the first attempt was two weeks ago, if you remember being put out of force because those decisions weren't made in the legal way. In other words, they are against the law and not only because the Assembly should vote individually on each of the members of the Governing Council when they are appointed and possibly when they are resolved. There is another obligation, with each name, to state by law the prescribed reason why these members are being replaced. In materials, we don't even have those reasons for the whole group, let alone for each individual. And that's why since time allows me to read it to you. "Article 13 found that the Croatian Parliament" therefore the Law on HINA "has been found that the Croatian Assembly can resolve a member of the Governing Council before the expiry of the time to which it was appointed on its own request, by resigning, if, by way of its work, it seriously violates the law and other regulations relating to the operation and operation of HINA, if it causes greater damage to HINA and in other cases established by law and statute". So if those are the reasons for the shift, then the one who suggested it should have had so much if you wanted honesty and to state for what reasons it was replacing, and not to let the board president tell you now about how these people worked or didn't work. This should have been the reason for the resolution of the Administrative Council of HINA. And since it is not respected by law the procedure that the administrative council has been unlawfully resolved and the new one is certainly a very bad start for the work of the new board of directors. And so we suggested that these decisions be put out of force so as not to yet have the adverse consequences of our illegal decisions that would give some quite legal rights to those who have been unlawfully removed, and you didn't want to talk about it, but you transferred the ball to a completely different field. Therefore, the Parliament has made decisions which are not based on the specific HINA Act and therefore we have requested that they be put out of force and that in the ordinary procedure that the law prescribes for all these appointments and resolutions state the reasons individually for each person to be appointed. We do not cultivate illusions that this will prevent the majority from naming those who are willing to do so, we have not been able to prevent any damage that will only be shown since you have done everything on HRT but that is another question, it will probably come at some point on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17060	Thank you very much. At your presentation, we have a signed replica of the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17061	Dear Mr. Mlakar, the ball on the other court is primarily on behalf of the HDZ Club, so the HDZ representative transferred it because after what you said after you said illegality and infringement procedure, we should have stopped there. I haven't talked about it at all, and I don't want to discuss it. I've been discussing some other aspects, and that is why there was a legal procedure for a club of representatives who we know worked in the previous assembly. I'm not a lawyer, and I don't want to be a lawyer, but I'm fighting for some kind of principle. What your replica was being done on TV by the Croatian Labour Party Club was very, very opposed to that law, we say it is a disastrous law and I agree with you that we will see the consequences, only Superman can save it if he is elected director of HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17062	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17063	Thank you very much. And dear colleague Vuksic, thank God that you are not the one who will decide to what extent we will speak and when we have to stop in our replicas or in our performances in the Parliament. And you also talked about the legality of the decisions by calling for the legality of the decision to be decided by the President of the Parliament. He has quite certain permanent power and power but the legality isn't the only one invited to speak, so I think it's a happy circumstance that we're going to take the liberty of talking maybe through what you think is opportunized at a certain point.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-28-0.u17064	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for discussion, but this is a classic situation when the president has to give an explanation, so please. I understand policy and political profitability when any error of position wants to be used for political purposes. I understand that and I justify it. Secondly, the record is my witness, so it's being recorded, that at the introduction to this point I said the point is being introduced to the HDZ Club proposal and I thank you for that. Thirdly, I would like to say, I will not invite the Most High above the Parliament because it is not appropriate, but I will call on what our Constitution has found to be in Croatia in the work of the rule of law, so any decision of this Parliament is subject to review either in the Parliament or in the Constitutional Court. And the President of the Parliament in my role, respecting wishes and good intentions, and also in good intentions to bring the procedure of resolution and appointment in accordance with the law, has accepted that we do so in the Croatian Parliament, not to leave the possibility of destroying the decision in the Constitutional Court, and this good intention remains now. The reasons for the procedure were laid down in this Croatian Parliament by making a decision, i.e. the conclusion that a resolution procedure should be initiated when considering the HINA report. So all the elements as far as I can understand that law are now satisfied. This explanation is for the public, and I ask that we now approach the vote as planned. Parliament's will will be expressed in a democratic manner in accordance with the law, and yet it will be possible in accordance with our Constitution to dispute and any decision and that which we will make. There's no cut or change there. Thank you very much. I propose that we now declare the discharge of Vlaha Bogisic's duties as member of the Governing Council of HINA. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find the proposal accepted by 81 votes to 20 against and 3 abstentions. Let's move on. I am voting in favour of the motion to dismiss Alexander Adler as a member of the Governing Council of HINA. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that the proposal has been accepted by most votes, 81 votes in favour, 20 against and four abstentions. I am voting on the motion to dismiss Tomislav Radic as a member of the Governing Council of HINA. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor of the proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the proposal has been accepted by most votes, 81 votes in favour, 20 against and four abstentions. Next. I am voting on the motion to dismiss Dr Damir Boras as a member of the Governing Council of HINA. Please raise your hand and let us know who's up for the proposal? Thank you. Who's against the proposal? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 20 votes against and four abstentions are accepted. We're moving on to the appointment. I am voting on the Proposal for the appointment of Gordana Simonović to the member of the Governing Council of HINA. Please raise your hand and let us know who's up for the proposal? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposal has been accepted by most votes, 81 votes for, 20 against and four abstentions. I am voting on the proposal for the appointment of Josip Weber as a member of the Governing Council of HINA. I'm asking you to step up your hand and let us know who's up for the proposal. Thank you. Who's against the proposal? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 4 abstentions are accepted. I am voting on the proposal to appoint the Master of Government Rajic as a member of the Governing Council of HINA. Please raise your hand and let us know who's up for the proposal? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. The result? Thank you. I find that the proposal has been accepted by most votes, 81 votes for, 19 against and four abstentions. Let's go to the next one. I am voting on the proposal to appoint Roman Juric a member of the HINA Governing Council. Please raise your hands and let us know who's up for the proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? The result? I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 19 against and 4 abstentions are accepted. That's what we've done with the vote until today's work. That concludes the session. ... Oh, no? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And a follow-up to the debate. Excuse me. Continuing the debate on the proposal of the Prosecution Act.
