ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1555	Introduced from me, this debate was called to the HDZ Club initiative, namely HDZ President, a good initiative that we immediately accepted to give the Croatian public what we believe to be important messages in the days before the referendum. According to the information we have here, we will find ourselves at the gallery upstairs if the information is accurate and representatives of the public who are not enthusiasts about Europe. That's the difference we should tolerate, and maybe sometimes we'll look forward to it. There's a long way behind us. A lot of work has been done. An English newer proverb translated into Croatian says that the constant struggle and effort for a man to see what is right in front of him, or in front of his eyes. What's in front of us now is right in front of our noses and in front of our eyes. What is very often the most obvious people sometimes do not see, and in front of us is the most obvious fact that the European Union is good for Croatia and that Croatian membership in the European Union is something that can only bring good to the generation that lives here today and the generation that comes here today. What's important is to say. The European Union is not Panacea and is not a recipe and so far has not been a recipe for all the problems of sovereign peoples, nations and political communities. The best evidence is what has been happening in the last few years in the European Union. The situation is not great, but the European Union is still the most demanding and demanding sociological, ecological, economic, regulatory, most demanding community that mankind has ever established with the highest standards of human rights, tolerance for diversity, investment, incentives, harmonisation and avoidance of inequality. As for prosperity itself, wealth, wallet depths, there are several other communities, state formations that can be measured by their influence, strength and size with the European Union. But if we take all these criteria into account, the European Union is undeniable. We also see in this crisis that there are good and less good and they are not blamed by the European Union, they are responsible for themselves, they are responsible for themselves. There are those who play by the rules, who in time change, who in time take reforms and those who are a little slower in this. The European Union is aware of this and therefore, as we speak, it is changing itself and in a few months, it is possible that some of the European Union's positions are different than today, to be different from our accession treaty. Our accession contract as negotiated and given to the public is part of the legal gain of the European Union, it is part of European law. All other contracts are also part of this legal gain. All basic acts are also part of this acquis. All that will be agreed over the next few months, and with regard to the finance and budget of the foundations of sovereignty in the traditional sense of the word will also be part of the legal gain. And we're getting into something that we know is good, which is right there in front of our eyes, but it's changing but it has to stay focused all the time. So there are successes and there are fewer successes. It is up to us to get the best out of ourselves, from the Union, to enter the Union and the Union into Croatia and simply make Croatia more stable, stronger and independent. I firmly believe that this generation of Croatian people, first of all people, and then a politician can do something like that, he knows, and he wants us to know that for 20 years since we have a country. But a series of circumstances, objective and subjective, were in our way. It is therefore important to tell the Croatian public that the European Union is changing. It is changed by circumstances and changed by the political will of its peoples and leaders. As we speak now, it may change more and more than ever in such a short range of time. We take it from us, I repeat it to myself, not to go in with a fig in our pocket aware of what that quality means to us. I guess once again, when we take everything together, there is no gathering better than the European Union. This is neither America nor Japan, and these are countries with which the European Union can and must be measured. To a small people, to a small political community, to a small community such as our remaining two opportunities will always be and will be in the future so that we remain independent in a traditional, conservative way, not to integrate or join an alliance. We have studied this alliance well for the last 20 years. Never in our history of the people, or nation, and nation we are not, we have not been a nation since the seventh century. The nation is shorter. We've never entered into any integration, in any larger force in this way, in such a good way. The critics say wherever Croatia went in, it failed. All civilizations eventually failed. All complex societies have failed in history. All complex societies since 1000, two years ago have reached their maturity, culmination and a slight fall. But at this point I believe that the European Union is still on the rise, that it is still on its rise. We were never more aware, and we could never have had less excuses for not knowing where we were going. We know where we're going, or we know where we're going and where we're going and where we're going. We're fully aware of that. If we compare this situation to the '45 events. in the last century, with events from 1918 when here in front of this House a plebiscitarian decision was made first on the formation of the state of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs and then everything that followed. It was all quick, hasty, without the participation of the people, without any public debate and then not going back 50 years from that day, 60, 100, all those breaking moments of Croatian history. We were always just one drop in a big wave, one tear in the rain. We're a country now, now we're a country for the first time. We were never a state, not a thousand and a half years ago, it wasn't a state, it's a state. This is the strongest Croatia has ever had. The European Union, so I'm going to say one more time, today is one thing, and in half a year something else. In a year, in two years, maybe a little third again, but in its being one community of states with express powers in a number of areas that were once national sovereignty, they are no longer. It is not because the countries that have entered the EU have agreed so. But in that most important decision we make. Those decisions that are crucial to answering the questions in which we are going, how we develop, how we invest, how we educate our children, and what we build, what directions, which corridors. No one decides against our will today, no one will decide tomorrow either. Only lack of our will, lack of consciousness, lack of focus, inability to see what is in front of us, and that is a constant struggle can distract us on that path. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, before I give my word to the Minister of European and Foreign Affairs, we must build a stable, normal, balanced society, that country based on dialogue and understanding. In the end, some kind of decision should be made. For that decision, someone needs to take responsibility. But we must not give up on low passions, we must not disintegrate those passions that should belong to the past. We must be energetic, but also calm. Cold heads, but sometimes when you need hot hearts. Because history teaches that fanaticism in the end is often the only weapon of the weak and the unwilled. That's what history has shown many times. The Croatian people, or Croatian political nation, all who live here are not fanatics, are not weak, are not unwilled, have a clear vision of what they want. For us as Croatian politicians, but also for those who do not sit here, everyone who still participates in this debate today is also a big responsibility. When we enter the EU, and that's the end of my presentation, we can always change our minds in a year, two, five. No one's ever done that, though. That fact is some argument because these decisions are not made in front of the pipes, they are made sovereignly. No one's ever changed their mind. Those who believe that it is good for them and benefit for that reason, and those who think that they might be better off on their own because they want to be inside, there are also such countries in Europe, to control and influence the processes. Because outside the EU, far greater nations than we are in the world's ocean nations are just a small community with 50, 60 million people. And we are 4.5 million -- enough to make a quality state, too little to be global players. We have to take care of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1556	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Dr. McNally. Pusic, foreign and European affairs minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1557	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. On 18 December 2002, this Parliament adopted a Decision on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. He's brought a resolution that she said formally we're heading for that path. That decision wasn't made with closed eyes, it wasn't made with ignorance. This decision has been made on the basis, and it may be a key decision or one of the two key decisions on this road, made with full information and full awareness of what it is. All documents, all legal gains that were in force at that time, were known, available. And that's the decision we made as a fundamental decision in the negotiations. Whether or not. Based on insight into the acquis and on the basis of experience, it sees how other countries that were members of the EU are going through at that time. Which brought them good and which eventually complicated their lives in the project. Meanwhile, it is an unusual coincidence or situation that this decision, the Croatian Parliament resolution on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, was adopted on 18.12.2002, and that the accession treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia was almost or signed almost on 9 years later on 9.12.2011. Meanwhile, the whole negotiations took place, the entire 35-chapter negotiation process took place. Croatia negotiated differently from other countries. She negotiated because the candidate countries are also learning, but also European institutions are learning. She negotiated as the first country on some of the chapters others had not negotiated, such as Chapter – Justice and fundamental rights. During the negotiations we had different difficulties, but from today's perspective it seems to me that I could say that almost the whole process would have made less sense if we didn't have a chapter – the judiciary and fundamental rights. There were no finished solutions. It was just a request for a functioning, transparent judiciary. In the process, however, we ourselves designed a model that can gradually build a more efficient and better functioning judiciary. Have we finished this process today? I'm sure we didn't. We have, what would you say, a lot of room for progress, but today after this whole negotiation process, do we have the foundations that we didn't have a year ago, two of which are the basis for building a functioning judiciary? We do. Under full responsibility, I can say that in the negotiation process we have come up with between many other things and what was not an integral part of the legal gain of the European Union, such as the model of judicial reform, which is very likely to become an integral part of the criteria for each subsequent enlargement, and that in this process we have managed to create the foundations, for example as regards the judiciary, which we did not have before. In those nine years, a lot of debates were held in Parliament. In its negotiation process, Croatia also had an institution related to the parliament, which no other country has had in the negotiations so far, and this is the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the European Union, which discussed all the negotiating positions, and in which every member who was a member had the right to veto. And it is not the right to veto a decision of the Committee but the right of veto de facto to the whole process. Because the negotiating positions could not be forwarded to the bodies of the European Union without a position and that of the National Committee. I have prepared one presentation here, but I will use it more during the debate than to give it to you now in full on the course of the negotiations, on the summary negotiating positions that you have received in the material that has been negotiated in 35 chapters, this House has discussed twice a year the least on the basis of the National Committee's report and on the basis of the government's report, discussed all the laws that have been adapted to the European Union, discussed at the meetings of the National Committee on the concrete requirements that you have received here in your materials, the review of the requirements and those that have come from the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament, which have been transferred through the negotiating group that have been adopted in the joint positions on 35 chapters, and you have received information in the materials for this session. You got one of those big 300 pages short version of the access contract, which summarises everything that's key. All that changes in fact with the conclusion of the negotiations, in Croatia and in the regulation in the future, which has been taken over or will be taken over if this job is finished. On this absolutely, I am ready to participate during the debate and to give you further information. But let me introduce here, of all the things that are being changed, which we can discuss, which are an integral part of the policy of the European Union, an integral part of the legal property of the European Union, or an integral part of the new policies of the European Union that are being changed, which are being discussed, and while we are discussing within the European Union, it is debated whether there will be a common agricultural policy in the time that is before us, therefore, that is all the decisions that will be made. But let me say a few things that I think are crucial for our debate here but also for the decision that lies before Croatian citizens on 22 January in the referendum. The fact is that the European Union will not solve our problems, and no one will solve our problems except ourselves. The fact is, it's an old rule that no one can help you if you don't know first and you can't help yourself, it's worth it here. The fact that there are countries in the European Union in the spectrum from Greece to Sweden shows that countries as members of the European Union can function and can be very different on the scale from success to failure and can function very differently. The fact is, however, that if you have the strength as a country, if you have the ability as people to get the country out of the crisis and to be successful, then membership in the European Union from those most successful to those least successful in that business gives all countries a better chance. They give them a better opportunity to make that success and those abilities they have and have to realize themselves. The most frequently referred to as the main advantage or the main arguments for membership in the European Union is about money, it speaks of the availability of European funds and, of course, this is an unusually important moment for Croatia, but for Croatia, a country that lasts for a long time, but for political history, it takes unusually short, for Croatia, in my deep conviction, the most important argument is stability. Stability of institutions and the sustainability of the state. Without the stability of the institutions and the sustainability of the state, there is no economic recovery, no human rights, no functioning of the institutions and no trust in the institutions. For us, the process of approaching or negotiating membership in the European Union was not only a process of adapting legislation, for us it was a process of building a state. Many of the institutions that we have today, many of the procedures defined in the laws we didn't have today 10 years ago, we didn't have five years ago, some we didn't have two years ago. In this process, we are, apart from adapting to the legal gain of the European Union, which means the systematiced experience of 20 countries, we were building a state. And we have a third-stage decision ahead of us. First, to fight the state. Second, to build institutions. Third, stabilize. Stabilize these institutions and stabilize the state to last for more than 20 years, 40 years or 50 years, and in the last 150 years, as it is known never in this space have we had a country that lasted at least as one human life. Thus, stability is a key matter for us. All EU member states have de facto secured that stability, even those that seem most stable to us, such as Sweden, so countries and with long tradition and old institutions believe that membership in the Union has brought them this stability. And that stability is the greatest profit from the experience of EU membership of those who are there and for us the greatest gain. Some of the old members and societies in some of the old members may have forgotten how important this is, because the last wars were between '41. And '45. That's not the case for us. We all in our personal experiences have an awareness of what insecurity means, which means instability, which means mistrust in institutions, which means lability, weakness, or even the absence of institutions. For us, stability is a representative goal that we can also feel through the method of our own skin, not only intellectually understand. This stability is reflected for another fundamental reason in my view of membership, it is reflected in the perception of both international financial institutions and potential investors and all those necessary for Croatia's economic recovery and for Croatia's economic success. There should be no dilemma about it. This fact that this type of stabilisation of the state, which means the EU, is reflected in these indicators for both investors and international financial institutions, is simply a fact. And we need to take care of that fact here, too. The third advantage is, of course, funds. Without the ability to formulate projects, without the ability to define the objectives towards which we are going, we will not be helped by European funds that is true. But without that ability, the EU or not, nothing will help us. Without this ability, we will not be able to put the country on track and move towards recovery regardless of the EU. So that ability is a presumption, and then it's just an addition to the possibility that other than the money of its own taxpayers except money because the state doesn't have money, it's not state money, it's money from people who work, from companies that work. We can combine that money with money from European funds. For the illustration, this is in the first 6 months of membership of 449, so in roughly half a billion euros from the funds and 180m euros that are independent of projects that come as means to adapt different segments and economies and the functioning of the tree to new conditions. In this same period, Croatia is paying 275m euros in the EU budget as its contribution to the EU budget. It may be a banal argument, but it's an important argument. That argument doesn't work if we're incompetent, but then it doesn't make any arguments. But under the conditions in which the country must start to emerge from the crisis under these conditions of the funds that we combine with our budget, which are available from European funds, there is an additional argument. And finally, for me, the fourth argument about the EU and its membership is an argument of freedom. My generation, and in fact all generations in Croatia have had the opportunity to cross many hard and hard state borders with different forms of shagging, screening, man-creation only on the count. They had the opportunity to see for themselves what borders and life within closed borders or half-closed borders looked like, they had the opportunity to wait for different controls of passports, customs duties of many European countries in their own lives. The question of the possibility of living without these limits in its own space, and our own space is without further Europe, the possibility that a man is moving freely, that he is not a number, that a citizen or citizen wherever in that Europe is going, for me from some of our historical perspectives is an unusually important argument. And Europe absolutely means that civil freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1558	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would the rapporteur of the European Integration Committee like to take the floor? There's no need. Then I'm opening a debate. First of all, we have 7 club representatives and 43 individual debates, so 50 speakers so far reported, I think 51st has arrived or 8th club, okay. Anyway, the 51st speaker. The first word is on behalf of the HNS club and Liberal Democrats Mr. Jozo Radoš and the club president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1559	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is the path that lasted, or will last 12 years from the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2001 until I hope to join the EU in 2013. A road that was long, difficult and interesting at the same time and a unique road which had just passed by the Republic of Croatia, not only because of its special experience of leaving the war but because of the fact that it was not part of any political package, so it was not part of any strategic expansion, and then the negotiation and relations that it had had on the road were the setting of some new standards and therefore the process of negotiating and entering and all that was so what was before and after the negotiations for Croatia was more demanding than it was for other countries. One particular feature we have given this process is the blockade we have suffered from our neighbours because of bilateral relations, which is contrary to the principles of negotiating and the principles of joining the European Union, but this is the same new one that we have introduced into this wealth of access to the European Union, so let it be an unwanted Croatian contribution, but of course, with great difficulties and a waste of time we have successfully overcome. The entry into the European Union does not stop national policies. The national parliament, the Croatian Parliament, will continue to be the main body to decide what the country's policy should be. Likewise, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be with the Prime Minister who will be a member of the European Council and ministers who will be members of various European Union councils, and we have almost full autonomy in implementing local self-government health, cultural, education, pension and politics. So the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government, therefore, Croatian politicians who will be elected by Croatian citizens, remain the main points of decision-making on the country's life and politics. Of course, these areas of co-operation, and in fact one of the fundamental principles of why there is at all the European Union is co-operation, will allow us to raise standards of administration in these areas as well as the process itself certainly helped us to be better than we would have been alone if we hadn't been part of that framework. Therefore, we have our destiny in our own hands and have the opportunity to strengthen and build our own institutions more quickly and better in this cooperation. As far as resisting entry into the European Union is concerned, we haven't invented anything. We didn't invent Euroscepticism either, I suppose, not hiding Euroscepticism behind the so-called. Eurorealism is not our invention either. The European Union has been a major topic of European policy for the past 60 years and indeed nothing has been invented in Croatia, but of course it needs to understand Croatian sentiments, Croatian circumstances and Croatian arguments. The role of national parliaments in the European Union has been discussed since its draft, even at the time of its creation, particularly on the role of so-called "the European Union". supranational or semi-national bodies such as the European Parliament and, in particular, strong resistances today and all that time, the development of the European Union persists with regard to the increased powers of the European Commission as a supranational body which has particularly high powers and which, because of its delegated legitimacy, is particularly affected by the so-called ‘supply’. a democratic deficit that exists in every country and, of course, exists in the European Union. And these are the big topics of European policy, the integration of the European Union which we did not inauguration, but of course they also came into the focus of our interest. Of course, HNS is not a party that will scare the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with alternatives but the real, equally valuable, equally strong, equally good alternatives do not exist. But it should be said that if we miss this opportunity, the alternative is the Western Balkans, that instead of all the advantages that we can have by expanding our influence with experience and membership in the European Union, by strengthening our position and contributing to stability and cooperation in that area, we are going back to one framework that will last 5 or 10 years and that will certainly lower, lower that advantage and those standards that the Republic of Croatia already has. We will be part of another package in which we will be the most developed country, but for the sake of harmonisation we will have to suffer the setting of common standards and that is certainly not the interest of this country and its citizens. I'm saying it's not a particular topic for HNS because there are on-call scarecrows of the nation in that sense, but it should be kept in mind. It's an important thing and it's a real fact. When we talk about the European Union, of course, we need to know that she has had a lot of difficulties, but always after the stalemate, after the difficulty she went forward. It should only be remembered that only 30 years after the signing of the Agreement on the European Economic Community, there was a first substantive amendment to this Treaty with a single European act, that Maastricht in 1990 had not been fully expected, only with 10 years of delay, that the Amsterdam Agreement was a major incursion with very thin achievements, that the Nice Agreement had been made a breakthrough that had failed in Amsterdam, that the constitution had failed by the collapse of the referendum in the Netherlands and France, but again after that, the Lisbon Treaty was adopted. Therefore, the European Union is a complicated organisation that has its ups and downs but has never gone back. When we talk about it, it is for the sake of clarity to mention the experiences of others. Each country has entered the European Union on its own and no country has asked to leave the European Union and it is very important to know. All the new countries, so these 10 countries that entered the European Union in the last round of enlargement, have seen the growth of gross social product, the growth of standards, the growth of production, and there has been no sudden purchase of land, forest, real estate, and nowhere has some of our citizens been afraid of, some terrible brain drains. All these countries were open, they became members, they have no special protection mechanisms that neither has Croatia, but these negative consequences have not occurred. The European Union is an organisation of solidarity. All its six funds rest on the fact that those who are weaker should be helped, who are less developed. The Cohesion Fund at national, national level. Regional fund at regional level and social fund at individual level. Of course, it would be good if we did not use the funds of these funds, which would mean that we are more than 90% of the European Union average by development, and we should look forward to the day when the Republic of Croatia will be above 90% of the average and will not actually have the need or right to withdraw these funds at all, and by then, of course, all the benefits that these circumstances and these funds give to Croatia. It is important to know that for each euro paid in these funds, the Republic of Croatia can withdraw 2 and a half to 3 euros from these funds until it reaches 90% of the development of the European Union average, and this opportunity should indeed be used. Finally, the basic principle of the European Union. It's freedom, freedom of movement of people, goods and capital and a reduction of borders. So is this principle that has brought about the very concrete consequences of the economic power of that community not sufficient to be a self-evident principle that this community is considered something to be involved in? So this is the occasion that the Republic of Croatia should take advantage of. The European Union has always been and today is more visions and feelings than knowledge. But knowledge helps. The knowledge we can have in the European Union changes both vision and feeling, and the feeling here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament is that the membership of the Republic of Croatia is in the European Union and, of course, the expected passing of the referendum is in the best interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and therefore I call on the citizens to come out for a referendum and say yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1560	Thank you very much, Mr. Radosh. On behalf of the SDP club, representative Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1561	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Prime Minister, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow representatives for the start on behalf of the SDP Club, I invite you all to participate in today's debate. She's one of the last. So, we are only a few days away from the referendum itself, the days when our citizens will make a decision on membership in the European Union. And this should be noted once again – the decision is made by citizens, not by parties or political elites in the Republic of Croatia. The SDP has been a party to European orientation since its very beginning. We worked on Croatia's European future when we were both in position and in power and again we say the European Union is not because of us, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, with membership in the European Union, can achieve a better standard, greater living security and stability and faster economic recovery. On Sunday, we finally choose where we belong, choose what future we, our children, and our grandchildren will have. The European Union is right here because of our citizens. I will especially mention that he is here because of our youngsters. The social groups that have been hit greatly by the last economic crisis, where in the end Europe responded to a whole series of measures precisely towards young people and who today and today can be said to be big winners of membership in the European Union. Our young people are open to a single European labour market, a European area of education is opened, therefore mobility in education, mobility in work, the acquisition of new skills, new skills. All new economic models from youth self-employment to youth entrepreneurship will also be opened to our young people. Finally, because of this crisis and young people affected by the crisis, the Republic of Croatia will also be at the disposal of a whole series of funding from the Social Fund for the direct creation of jobs for young people in poorer Croatian regions and those affected by the crisis. So it's a group that's extremely skeptical, and it's also the best way to get from membership. We also want in the European Union because of our farmers opening a huge market for agricultural products, guarantees for agricultural payments, raising the quality of life in rural areas and promoting agricultural entrepreneurship. We also believe that the great winners of membership are local self-government units. For them, these EU funds are for them, most of all. It's roads, it's sewerage, it's water purifiers, it's heat, that's all we see specifically in our neighborhood. This is a balanced regional development, where with the help of European Union funds, units of our local self-government can get closer to each other in the quality of life and development. There's also the order in the catastra, the property and the business. The academic community and we call on them to come to the referendum and vote for the European Union. Just mention a few things. From a new programme for science, Horizon is located over 80 billion euros for major international scientific projects that can create a whole range of new jobs in Croatia with high added value. There's a whole series of novelties like further education in terms of further vocational education, lifelong learning. There is an incentive for cooperation between the academic community and the real sector. These are examples of projects everywhere in Europe that help get out of the crisis. And in the end there's an innovation in the first place. We're on the subject of innovation paradoxical state. I guess we have the biggest discretion in Europe between a large number of award-winning innovators and world-renowned innovators and the level of economic exploitation of these innovations in the Republic of Croatia. This can indeed change significantly with the membership and assistance of the European Union. In the end there are entrepreneurs craftsmen who open up the market of 500 million people deprived of customs burdens, a large system of public procurement in which they can participate equally through freedoms of movement of people, services and goods. And of course encouraging the entrepreneurship of young people, women entrepreneurship, and innovations such as social entrepreneurship. Of course, it is in the country to be maximumly involved in supporting these sectors in order to have a greater and better impact. On the other hand, colleagues and colleagues, in the last few days our internet space has been suppressed by the force of information some of which really have no foothold, disinformation, and also widespread fear. I think we should be here for our citizens to say some more things. Under number one, EU information is not kept secret. They're not secrets locked in some safe. They were publicly published for months and there are no secret contracts under which the former government or the government sold the Adriatic or sold some county and hid it in some safe. These contracts don't exist. As Croatia enters the EU, we do not lose our independence, freedom to decide or do not work on the dictatorship of Brussels as is often said. We have our own voice here. Without us, we cannot decide, there is a clear division of jurisdiction and we are presented in all institutions. Because when it's said that a decision is made in Brussels, don't forget, so are we. And we are now deciding the fate of the entire EU. The European Union is not an integration in which we do not therefore decide our fate. She's just the other way around. It works on the principle that we are masters of our happiness and choose our own path. Of course, membership on that road gives high added value. The European Commission is also not an arbitrary institution that people choose for themselves. And yes, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to vote because they will vote in favour of the European Parliament. Neither does the European Parliament choose between itself. Furthermore, Europe is neither a hostage nor a slave, as has often been said, of major states. Clear mathematics shows that it really goes to the benefit of small ones and that without small decisions they can't make. Croatia will also not lose young and workable residents. I am personally a great supporter for our young people to spend some time in EU education and acquire some knowledge and skills in Europe and return to the Republic of Croatia to continue working here. Unfortunately, European statistics will likely show between 1% and 3% of the potential. I'm for more myself. And of course, our companies are responsible for operating on the market for deprived customs, such a large market. And lastly, something that was said yesterday, the day before yesterday, should be clearly said, the European Commission does not determine salaries in the Republic of Croatia, nor the height of salaries or pensions. But just as it is irresponsible to say that with EU membership, Croatia loses its independence, identity and disappears, it is equally irresponsible to say that the EU has magical solutions for all, that it has a magic wand that can solve our problems. It is equally irresponsible to say that with Europe, we will get billions of euros that will be transferred to the Republic of Croatia without any work or effort. Of course, we have a whole series of challenges ahead of us. For example, the challenges in achieving the objectives of Europe's 20/20 strategy. For Croatia, it means large investments and large financial resources that we will have to invest in the next few years, but also the result is a higher percentage of the use of renewable energy sources, less pollution, better quality education, especially lifelong learning and adult education, a higher number of students, which is our obligation as a consumer of tertiary education. So the challenges that follow us, but that will give us great added value over the next few years. We therefore face the challenges of EU funds, local, administrative capacity and also the preparation of the Republic of Croatia for the new financial period 2014-2020 and for policies, new policies, such as agricultural and regional. In front of the government and the Parliament is therefore a big deal because this is not an integration in which we will sit in the shade of a tree and say our business we have now done some other work for us and take care of us. No, such behaviour and such irresponsibility are the cornerstone of the problems in which some EU members have indeed found themselves. This means it wasn't a conspiracy in the euro area or the EU it was simply an irresponsibility of some, especially financial irresponsibility. The European Union is also not a new Yugoslavia, it is not a new Balkans, it is not Austria either. This is the integration in which we ourselves are working on our improvement and how well we will do our job will be so good for our citizens. We in the SDP are confident and do not run away from the responsibility of the job that we will know well and that the EU is indeed a Croatian future. I invite you all to a reasoned and civilized discussion, and our citizens to respond to the referendum in as large a number as possible this week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1562	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1563	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Above all, I want to believe that all of us sitting here today in our Croatian Assembly are aware of the historical importance of every word we say. The HDSB is a regional, national, democratic and pro-European party, and thus clearly we are not against the EU. But our programming pro-European orientation does not give us the right to forget another very important fact, that among our voters, as well as the voters of each political party represented in the Croatian Parliament there are also those who are for and those who are against joining the EU. We must all be aware that we represent each other, and in the opening reports of the Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, we have heard arguments that strongly encourage Croatian citizens to decide to vote in favour. And everything in your presentations is true. But we need to talk about something that isn't said. It must also be talked about because the decision on Croatia's entry into the EU does not belong to any party, not to any politician, not even to political elites, but the decision belongs primarily to Croatian citizens. It is our desire to motivate today's debate to go out to the referendum and those who are in favour and those who are against it. At the beginning, I will quote the words of Mr Paul Vandoren, the head of the EU delegation to the Republic of Croatia, which is quoted in the preface of the handbook of this same delegation, as saying on the impact of the EU on the lives of citizens, I quote: "I consider it very important that each citizen makes an informed decision, a decision that will be based on relevant and comprehensive information. I believe that once you read this publication, you will look for additional sources of information on this subject and be in a better position to judge whether citizens in the EU are offering more advantages or more disadvantages. It's worth thinking about, isn't it?", finished quote. One of the most common questions of all. Eurosceptics is it true that by joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia loses important elements of sovereignty and independence? On this issue, Minister Pusic recently said no, the European Union is an association of 27 sovereign states. Before considering the accuracy of this claim, I will remind myself of the fact that the sovereign state has its attributes to the sovereignty of a state that does not have exclusive or supreme authority in its territory but is subject to the right of other states or foreign authorities from an international position are neither de facto nor legally sovereign. The statement by Mrs Pusic sounds nice and reassuring, but as it says in the Lisbon Treaty that everyone is talking about and few who seem to have seen it and let alone read it, as it says in this legal act that many call the Constitution of the European Union, here are several very important articles that can help to answer the question. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Treaty on European Union states: "This Treaty between the High Contracting Parties shall establish a European Union to which Member States transfer competences to achieve common objectives". What jurisdiction? The answers to this question are found in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in Article 2(1) reads: "When contracts are granted exclusive powers in a particular area only the Union can produce and adopt legally binding acts while Member States can do so on their own only if they are authorised by the Union or for the exercise of Union acts". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states: "The Union has jurisdiction in the following areas: customs union, the establishment of rules on competition, monetary policy, conservation of marine biological resources and common trade policy". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Finally, in Article 6 Member States maintained the right to decide on measures in the following areas: protection and improvement of human health, industry, culture, tourism, education, training, youth and sport, civil protection and administrative cooperation. Whether entering the European Union means losing sovereignty on the basis of this information, so let the articles of the Lisbon Treaty judge the citizens themselves. The second common question, so-called. The Eurosceptics is whether by entering the European Union into a new Federation, knowing how we went through in the SFRY Federation, the fear that arises from this issue is understandable, especially if we know that we made 21% of the population in the Federation, so we were victims of hegemony. Let us return briefly to the already mentioned statement by our minister that it is an association of 27 sovereign states. This statement indicates that the European Union is some kind of confederate i.e. an independent state alliance, if that were the case, that would be fine. However, what to say about the claims made in this document, and this is a document issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration in September of last year signed by the first embassy secretary and as a mentor ambassador and head of the mission of Croatia to the European Union, where it literally writes the following at station 6: "The last major effort to manage a significant and high-quality mostly logical step towards the federal union is the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty". What to say about the fact that in that same document of our ministry, what to say about the findings that it was a federal union. In order to avoid confusion, I call on all interested parties to look at page 20 of this document, which can, among other things, be found on: By increasing European integration, the legislative authority should fully belong to the European Parliament, which, as in most federal structures, should consist of two homes, on the one hand, the European Parliament and, on the other hand, the Council of the European Union as the upper home. What to say at the conclusion of the Croatian Ministry on that 20th page that despite the fact that the basic federal system of functioning is rarely directly mentioned political system as well as the relationship between institutions are in their basic institutional characteristics similar to federal ones, I also quoted this. Do they have reason to worry about Croatian citizens when on page 20 of this document our embassy also stands to see if there is really a strong interest in creating new own resources for the EU budget, for example in financial transactions and so on. The VAT of the European Union. What kind of taxes are they about, especially so-called. The VAT shall be spoken to the European Union. So, in addition to the announced raise of VAT in Croatia, we should expect the VAT of the European Union. When it comes to Croatia's independence in the European Union, then we will ask another question. The Lisbon Treaty, in its add-on to the basic contracts, contains among other 37 protocols, 2 annexes, 65 statements and 2 equivalent tables, Protocol No 1 and Protocol No 2 defines the role of national parliaments, among other things, it is written that when the European Union adopts some proposal for a new law, the national parliament in our case has time to demonstrate this proposal for 8 weeks, two months. Article 6 is replaced by the following: Protocol No 2 quotes: "any national parliament may send a reasoned opinion within 8 weeks stating why it considers that the draft law in question is not in line with the principle of subsidiarity". This reasoned opinion shall be sent to the legislator in Brussels, who shall take this opinion into account: "if reasoned opinions on disagreements give at least 1/3 of all national parliaments". Therefore, in order for our observations to be accepted, at least nine other countries should be agreed, only then is the draft law being reconsidered and subsequently proposed by the law. It may amend and amend its draft proposal, may and may withdraw it but may retain it only with the obligation to give written explanation and guidance to the European Parliament and to the Council of the European Union. And then, most of the 55% of the votes of the members of the Council of the European Union make a final decision. What gives cause for concern is also a way of making decisions in the institutions of the European Union. These days we are bombarded by the statements of the type so far we have been on the menu and from now on we will be at the table at which we eat and this sounds nice, but how much of a place for Croatia will be at that table and whether we eat the main dish or what we have left. Because how to interpret the provision of Article 16 of the Treaty on European Union, which states in paragraph 4, that I quote: "As of 1 November 2014, the qualified majority of the votes is identified as at least 55% of the members of the Council of the European Union, including at least 15 members of the council representing Member States with at least 65% of the population of the Union". In paragraph 5, I quote "the transitional provisions relating to the definition of qualified majority, which apply until 21. Ten. 2014 and those to be applied from 1. 11. 2014 to 31 March 2017 are set out in the Protocol on Transitional Provisions." Well, then let's go look at what that means, so it points to Article 238(2) and paragraph 3. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which also speaks of a qualified majority but also defines the possibility of veto and how veto is set. See, literally, in paragraph 3 of this Article, paragraph 3 of this Article, the minority who can prevent decision-making must contain at least a minimum number of Council members representing more than 35% of the population of the Member States participating in the decision-making process and another member otherwise considered to be a qualified majority. And in this council where all Member States depend on their size, Croatia will have a total of 355 so-called Condemned votes have only 7 such votes and 1.97%, respectively. We will have the same importance with our vote in the European Council. But this in itself is not the most important, and the most important thing is that only 6 of the largest EU members Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy, Spain and Poland together account for 70% of the EU population, and all the other 21 and 22 members are only 30% of the total population. And to be able to veto, there should be at least 35% of the total population. I'm not sure we'll have a lot of chances for the veto. Why is it that none of these days, nor today, nor for us parliamentary representatives, let alone the rest of the Croatian citizens, have told us article 126. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU states that "the European Commission monitors the production of the budget and the growth of the sovereign debt in the Member States, and if the Member State does not comply with the European Commission's directive in the adoption of the state budget, then the European Commission and the Council of the EU are giving it one or more measures, including the laying of a unscathed deposit at an appropriate amount or even paying a fine in a certain amount". What will the Croatian Parliament do about this? Why didn't anyone say a word about what happened? The "Six-Pack" or six-fold measures adopted by the European Commission on 20 September last year, which is a package of new legal provisions which are binding on each Member State when it comes to monitoring budget adoption in all EU Member States. And by the so-called. Every year, we will have to send a proposal for our budget for approval to be considered here in the Croatian Parliament. The HDSB is finally repeating the regional, national, democratic and pro-European party and we are not against Croatia's entry into the EU, but we are in favour of that every Croatian citizen who will ultimately decide to get a response before his decision to any issue that bothers him because he has the right to do so. So he has the right to know the answer to the question, how will our EU parliamentarians represent Croatia's interests in the European Parliament? Because when you read the document mentioned in September 2011 by our ministry saying that members of the European Parliament are gathering towards political groups, not according to national delegations, and that MPs are voting mainly on the "transnational party line, not on the national line". That's what it says on the page. In 32nd, man must ask himself, so who will represent Croatia and its citizens in the European Parliament when SDP representatives will vote for one political group, HDZ for another political group, the HNS for the third political group. And if we add this to Article 17(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The EU Treaty, which states that Member States' representatives in the European Commission do not seek and receive instructions "from either government or from any other institution, body, office or entity but act solely by representing the interests of the EU". Is there any reason to ask how Croatia will be represented in the EU? There are many more questions, and our fellow representatives from the club will talk about them. So in the European Parliament now we have 12 out of 751 seats, 1.6%. But according to our ministry's 2014 document, we're supposed to have less than 12 and nobody's talking about it. For those who are afraid to join the EU, it should be pointed out that this fear should and may mitigate the fact that Article 50 is. The EU Treaty provides for the possibility of leaving each EU country, but the procedure is not only as long-term as the entry procedure, but also very, very expensive. It's better not to think about her. And finally, in three days we make a fateful decision with far-reaching consequences, not only for ours but for the future of many, many generations of Croatian citizens coming for us. The HDZ as a regional, national, democratic and pro-European party is not against the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, on the contrary. But we are for Croatian citizens to decide on this on the basis of all relevant knowledge. So I invite all Croatian citizens and those who are in favour and those who are against, go to the referendum and decide both you and the fate of the Republic of Croatia, you decide not political parties, not politicians, not political elites. I also ask Mrs. Minister and Mr. President of the Croatian Government and anyone who knows the answers to these questions that we have asked to give them to us as well as to Croatian citizens. Desiring to repeat in the end, Croatia is part of a large family like the EU before we make that decision and we and Croatian citizens, let us give answers to both our and their questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1564	Thank you very much. And before you asked the Prime Minister to answer your question, he answered your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1565	Thank you, Mr. President. I answered the word to apologize, because I'm going to have to go to the government session, and I'd like to ask my dear colleague Buric a question, namely all of what he said is true, all of what you quoted is true. That's very precise writing. The only thing you could do was give an interpretation, not today, but weeks or months earlier. It's not some unknown thing. We're three days away from the referendum. I repeat everything you've written, read it correctly, and it's not new, it's decades old. And the redefining of the traditional concept of sovereignty began in the 1960s, with the first European Court of Justice rulings in Luxemborg when the largest members were crushed into the frameworks of European free market law, fundamental freedom. It's a process that takes a long time. The current stage of integration is higher than ever. Croatia will be represented by the Croatian Government through the European Council, the Croatian Government is controlled by the Croatian Parliament, the European Affairs Committee. So these are all familiar things. I ask you, however, to take full responsibility and say it more clearly for or against, but it is a process that takes long and which is currently where it is today. So Croatia has no traditional concept of sovereignty like 50, 60 years ago. I'll give you examples of traditionally conservative sovereign states, through which were crossed by tank caterpillars. In the Baltic, Central Europe, they were all completely sovereign. Their fate was decided in Munich at international conferences, their borders crossed, they were not stable and secure, they were not free. That's what counterpart Pusic was talking about. That's what the EU is giving today, that's what it provides. So all you've said is true, but what's important is that the EU is better for Croatia, that the concept of sovereignty since 60 years ago has disappeared. That's it. So I expect you to, it's an appeal, to clearly define yourself. We could have talked about these questions all these years and we did. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1566	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1567	Thank you. I thank Mr. Prime Minister. I would just like to say, it is an incorrect assumption that only the European Council will decide on us. What bothers Croatian citizens, the government will represent us in the European Council but decisions are made by the Government of the European Union, and that is the European Commission where we will have a representative who must, it says, decidedly, who must vote not on the order of the Government that sent him but represent the interests of the European Union. That's what the Lisbon Treaty says. And our commitment is clear, Mr. Prime Minister. We have said, we are not against the European Union, we are for the European Union, but we want to talk about whether or not Croatia will enter the European Union, and we want to enter, to be decided by Croatian citizens and not by 20, not by 30% but by 50, 70, 80, then we will be the happiest and those who are in favour and those who are against. And make it 50%+1 a vote, then responsibility for everything that will happen in the future in the European Union is not on any politician, it is not on any representative of the Croatian Parliament or on any political party. It is then indeed a responsibility for those who have the right to make that decision, and these are all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1568	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, no, but a representative of the government can report otherwise and answer questions in the context of a similar consideration. Mr. Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS club. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1569	Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. When it comes to the decision to join the European Union, which our citizens after having done so, and this Parliament should make 22 this month, then we should say something that is more or less clear to all of us, which is that this decision is made when it comes to Croatia both in our circumstances and between ourselves and within the European framework, in fact, just over 20 years ago. So the fact of our independence as a country has been linked from day one to the European Union's project and to the enlargement of the European Union to the area of Southeast Europe. The fact of our decision to leave the state union with Yugoslavia and other Yugoslav nations was linked to our wanting to join a new state alliance, and that is to say. We did not build our independence in order to be what many other states have given up in the meantime that have been independent national states for centuries. We have created it in order to be a state that can make a decision on its own in its affairs and in the affairs of association with other countries in an alliance such as the European Union. In that sense, for us, this referendum, for our citizens and for those of us who run it in this business, is not like for the citizens of Finland or for the citizens of Austria, and it seems to me that the minister clearly told me. It is we who have been clearly aware of this House for a long time. For us, this is a matter of ending a process, a process that began 20 and a few years ago, and for us this is a question of starting a new process. And that question of starting a new process has two faces. One side of the face is to be aware of what has been negative in the past 20 and more years, and the other is to be aware of what we can do within the frameworks of the European Union and what we can do in our own house. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words about it on behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party Club. So we are today, Prime Minister Mr Milanovic said that we are entering the European Union in a way that we have not entered into other state alliances. If we had entered 20 and a few years ago, we would have entered in the same way, almost the same way we entered into other state alliances, with great enthusiasm and with little realism, but in the meantime we enter with less enthusiasm and with a lot of realism and that's good for us because we know the advantages and we know the disadvantages of the alliance we're entering. This is how it happened, so did our country-building process on the one hand, and so did the process of building the European Union and facing the crisis of its own institutions. And in that sense, it is a blessing to us, and in that sense it is important for us to be aware of the fact that we are entering in real political circumstances. In what sense are real political circumstances, colleagues and colleagues? First, I would like to say about the issue of sovereignty and people who fear the loss of sovereignty, and they do not wonder how many of us sovereigntys we have managed to preserve in the last 20 and a few years. They don't wonder how many sovereigntys we've managed to destroy in the last 20 and a few years, and they don't wonder how many more of us sovereigntys we've managed to compromise in the last 20 and a few years, and we have. We did because we didn't manage, we did because we misjudged our own relationship to our own country, we did because we didn't know how to set ourselves up for other countries in situations where it was important to know how to set ourselves up. I don't think it's about general political matters, it's about very specific things. It's about banks, it's about telecommunications, it's about infrastructure, it's about a series of elements, it's about media. It is therefore a series of elements without which there is no valid sovereignty and there is nothing more important that there is no proper management of its own state. Some things were inevitable to pass as did other countries in transition. But there were some things we shouldn't have gone through. In other words, for one type of bad experience in its own sovereignty it is necessary to regain awareness and, in my opinion, it is necessary to advocate in the European Union a new type of sovereignty, a new type of understanding of national patriotism, a new type of understanding of national interests within the frameworks of the European Union. That's what we should really warn about. That's what we should talk about. It is not the European Union that will give us something that we no longer have in a series of elements, but the European Union is in our opinion a place to restore what we need. How? In association with those in the European Union who have similar experiences on the one hand, and on the other hand in association with those who are our partners and who should understand things that the European Union really is and should be a community of equal peoples of countries entering regardless of the size of gross social product, regardless of the size of the population, regardless of the size of the territory, regardless of the current development should have the degree of equality that is necessary for the European Union to survive as a community. We who have been through an experience like that of Yugoslavia can be a generous example, and we should be able to use this experience for our own sake and for the sake of the European Union. Experience in one type of Federation and entering a type of complex state such as or at present more confederations than a Federation such as the European Union is something we absolutely must use. And we need to know how and how to capitalize that experience. Another thing I would like to say if the European Union is understood as a static space, as a static structure within which Croatia should only accept what others say or what others have already formed as static structures then it is better not to enter it. But people should be told that the European Union is not a static structure, but rather a dynamic one and that countries are based on their own interests, their rights, their issues and their structures are trying to make them dynamic in accordance with their interests. Currently, in our opinion, there is a problem of equality in the European Union. There is a problem of equality in the European Union right now, and we know it, and we see it, but we are not the ones who need it first because we are just entering. But there is no doubt in the European Union that there is a growing awareness in Croatia that there is no freedom which is rightly spoken of by our minister and which is rightly spoken of by fellow Rados has no freedom if there is no equality. There is no freedom of movement if there will be no equality among people who work in different parts of these countries. That the European Union and we who follow a European Freedom idea must not forget that freedom without equality is not realistically possible, and this is not only missing in the European Union. And our people feel more and more inequality between those who are rich and those who are increasingly poor. At the same time, there is a problem in the European Union. We need to enter that space and we need to start to advocate different relations in the European Union and we need to start defending a different policy in the European Union, not only Europe of capital, but also Europe of knowledge and Europe of labour. After all, knowledge is growing, knowledge becomes the dominant form of work. We too must be able to raise awareness with ourselves and we must also be able to regain consciousness within the European Union. I'd like to say one more thing. We have spoken Europe for many years instead of the Balkans, and today you can hear people talking about how it is the right choice for us. And today when we are in a situation where we need to make a decision to be a part of Europe today, we are not sure if it is a good choice. It's a good choice, not because there's no better, but because it's a good choice. But it should also be said that the fake dilemma is Europe or the Balkans because the whole Balkans is Europe tomorrow. And this same space, this same post-Yugoslav space, the former Yugoslav space for us is in the market, economic, political sense of that word, the place where we need to build our influence, the place through which we need to build our influence in the European Union, the place through which we need to strengthen our influence in the European Union in association with other countries. And that's why this dilemma, which is unfortunately still implicitly contained and in our Constitution, should be thrown out of our minds. Both Europe and the region are where we must build our own home. Both Europe and the region are a place where we need to build something called good society and a good place to live for each of our reasons not only because tomorrow the region will be part of Europe, but because we in this region actually have real interests, national interests when it comes to the interests of parts of the Croatian people or members of certain national minorities. Economic matters concerning trade, investment, infrastructure and other reasons, security, etc. So, to bring an end. We made a decision just over 20 years ago. It took me so long to get to that point that she was a folk plebiscite and confirmed once again. In the meantime, we have seen both advantages and weaknesses and people should be told that under the circumstances when we see both the advantages and weaknesses of the cold head, but of the clear interest and commitment we say that we want to join the European Union. It's my message and it's a message from my SDSS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1570	Thank you very much. This is before we continue to inform you because the chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government asked me to hold a session of that committee today at 12:00 in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić 133. And let me know that at 11.10, the time for the hearing is up. And the next turn is Mr.... What correction? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr Dragutin Lesar, representative on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He pulled the plug, so we're on it. Thank you for your concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1571	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to reiterate my regret that the Parliament did not accept our proposal to hold a referendum on Croatia's entry into the EU in mid-February. We regret that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have been put in a position to have time to receive all the information within 42 days, to make their decision and to decide on a Millennium project as Prime Minister Milanovic calls it. And again, I make it clear that the Croatian Labourists are not to be confused. We will only have the full political legitimacy of the referendum decision if its response is greater than 50%. Legality and the changes in the Constitution and the law are not at stake. But if this is a Millennium project, support for turnout greater than 50%, you'd have to ask for every politically responsible representative. Another important reason why all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are invited to attend the referendum on Sunday. By going out, show and prove that you care about direct democracy, that you want to have the power or the ability to decide directly and not just in the elections. That you want to use your right to confirm, correct or reject the decisions of the political elite no matter who is in Croatia in power. If more than half of those enrolled do not attend the referendum tomorrow, it will be proof to someone that the citizens of Croatia are not interested in the referendum and in the next 20 and 30 or 40 years in Croatia the referendum will no longer be. When Croatia applied for EU accession on 21 February 2003 for chronology to the EU Council, it took 2 months to request an opinion from the European Commission. It took them 12 months to prepare a positive opinion and another 2 months to prepare and hold a status conference. It took another 9 months for the EU Council to establish a negotiating framework for Croatia and then another 7 months to start negotiations. They started on 3.10.2005, finished on 30 June 2011, if I correctly calculated 2094 days they lasted. And after that, it took three months for the contract to be submitted to Croatia and first to be announced and signed, and from the day of signing the contract to the decision of the citizens of Croatia only 42 days. But that's not the end of it. It will take about 16 months for all EU members to implement the process of ratification of the accession treaty. At least time for decision-making is for citizens of the country who are about to enter European times, into the EU. Unlike some other countries in Croatia, the people and the Croatian public did not live with negotiations because they were closed. The information was statistical, public dialogue almost nothing, and therefore only in the last two months have so much bile, polemic and debate. Some others did so by doing so after closing or opening each chapter. Croatia had 35 chapters, in 11 chapters 23 criteria we received for opening negotiations, and in 31 Chapter 104 criteria for closing those chapters. And is it all over now when the contract is signed and the referendum is held? It's not. Since, as early as autumn 2012, there is a comprehensive report in accordance with Article 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The accession contract that the European Commission must submit to Parliament and to the Council. So we're still under a kind of observation. They're still treating us like a patient with a disease that might come back. And final diagnosis in the fall of 2012. And yes, the specificity was that for a year we had a blockade from Slovenia, which also showed one EU impotence to solve such excesses on its own. The EU Treaty and the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU as well as the Treaty of the European Atomic Energy Community and another 13 thousand 161 sectoral regulations become part of national legislation. They are not all even translated into Croatian yet, let alone published. I agree that Croatia's negotiation process has been long lasting. Was this useful for Croatia to better prepare for entry or was the European Union practicing, testing a new model for all future negotiations. Croatia has been given high criteria for the conclusion of the negotiations. HAVE these high criteria raised Croatia's readiness to enter or been part of the pressure to agree to something that some of the other countries that entered did not ask for? if this has raised our level of preparedness, if this high criterion has strengthened the capacities of Croatian institutions that when we enter, it is good, but I am not sure that it is. And now only two options "Za" or "against." People fear the loss of sovereignty, the European Union is not a substitute for countries but it is true that part of the sovereign powers of each member is transferred to the bodies of the European Union. There are those, and that's what I'm saying because Prime Minister Milanovic said today is not the same thing that's going to happen tomorrow in three months, and it's not exactly what it's going to be. Seven. 2013 So there are those who advocate that the European Union is transformed into a United States of Europe, into a large European Confederation, that it must have a common finance ministry, which means a single tax policy. The European Union is dominated by Germany and France, yes, we all sit at the same table but there are those at the same table who dominate. The European Union has been without war for 60 years, which only proves that NATO is not the only guarantee of peace but that it can and in fact is the European Union within its borders. The European Union is a community of interest and it is not nor will it be a cure for all our problems, because most of the problem we made ourselves and it took us a long time to figure it out. We do not want to do everything as some do fetishes and cults, for us the European Union is just a means and not a goal, because if that is the goal then everything we need to do should be 1. Seven. In 2013, stop and go on and on and on. We believe that only then does the greatest part of the effort and responsibility of building a different Croatia begin. It's not good to underestimate or insult people's intelligence, monoton and stupid propaganda. And we're afraid that propaganda changes the mood of people and the worst thing is to threaten and intimidate the citizens that if they don't accept that they're going to be left with something, without a pension, without a salary or anything. It's not a good message and we can't act like one. We need to know what we want. People ask how we will be in the European Union what we are losing? The difference between information and propaganda, on several examples I will try to illustrate it is to tell the information ourselves because we have estimates or information. Freedom of employment, freedom of movement of labour. DO WE have a projection that states could use the right to limit to 2, 5 or 7 years, the right of employment of Croatian citizens on their territory, which could be countries. Whether it refers to those already there are or possibly a new wave. The minimum VAT rate 5% means that bread, medicines and building land in Croatia will have to be taxed through VAT, how much? Five, seven, eight? Do we know today how we will redistribute this new tax burden to whether everything will immediately go to the consumer's burden or whether we know the adjustment mechanisms that prices do not rise immediately. Gas and electricity excise duties also exist at a minimum of 0.5 and 1 euro respectively. Do we know how many we will have and how we will redistribute these excise duties while introducing them so that they do not fall immediately on the burden of consumers? Do we know what it means for Croatia mail full liberalisation of postal services with 31. 12 this year. Is Croatia's post office ready for that liberalisation today? Do we know if we are assessing when we will meet the Schengen criteria whether this is indeed 2015 because it is one of the great advantages of membership in the European Union. We ease our fears for the road and say that only for some food and agricultural positions will we have an unfavourable position on that market. What are these products and what are they producers? The problem of borders with Slovenia has been left to arbitration, and how will we address the problem of borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia-Montenegro as a member of the European Union? Finally, the monetary union or entry into the Eurozone is Croatia's obligation, do we now have an assessment of when this will happen or when we will meet the Maastricht criteria and when we will be obliged to introduce the euro? Some experts estimated this to be 2015. 800m euros of possible withdrawal, 267m commitments for Croatia, how much of this will really depend on us. It's easy to make a decision and decide when you have to or can choose between 2, 3 best offers. But today we, both citizens and citizens of Croatia, are in a position to choose between decisions with less risk, uncertainty, and more benefits of less challenges and dangers. We in the Croatian Labourists consider it our recommendation that the decision "ZA" is a European Union decision with less risk, less danger and a little more advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1572	On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1573	Mr. President, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us information on the cca 200-page progress and the results of the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. It is clear that this debate will turn de facto into an upcoming referendum to be held within three or four days. Last time, and that was a month ago I was talking about it about in the '90s or '90s. In the year '91, the second, mainly in the course of international recognition, we were all unique in this country especially when it comes to Europe, we were all in favour. Today, it is clear that this enthusiasm should not be escaped from the truth in some way cooled down. Understandably, there is no one to blame but I think it would be a disaster if Croatia somehow stayed behind the Iron Curtain behind the Shenghen curtain, in one word behind a civilization curtain. Europe certainly today, and what the prime minister said in 2011, 2012 was not what was prosperous in the 1990s. It is difficult today to respond to the temptation of the crisis, one great powerful Germany, one rich France, once also powerful Italy. Then we should not wonder why this economic moment is so difficult in the Republic of Croatia. We see just what happens to these world credit institutions, it doesn't matter that they own Americans, now they lower credit ratings and one big France, and also to a decorated Austria, about Italy not to speak, Slovakia, to our neighbouring Slovenia, while on one Cyprus, Portugal, Spain, Malta should not, let alone spend a word on Greece. However, unlike those in Europe, Croatia would, or rather, be more specific to a positive referendum, which I absolutely do not doubt, and by the fact that we are becoming a European state in view of the eyes of investors, creditors, bankers, bankers, this could certainly help us. Otherwise it will be extremely difficult and there is Mrs Pusic absolutely right. Although I agree with Mr. Lesar that no one should be afraid. And that's how much I'm absolutely for Europe. On Monday, 16 January, we read a society like this, one column by our historian Milan Rakovec, and he says "all at the referendum, all for the EU, cannot be worse". And then someone threw it away, and maybe they can. But at the time, I was about to say yes, but not because of Europe, but because of ourselves. For how we can first blame ourselves and not have the right to call on anyone else. There's nothing to get away with, there's nothing to call it, there's nothing else in the basement, there's nothing else we can do. It is clear to us that we ourselves are responsible, and let us not expect Europe to work for us. The prime minister said about this morning we'll all be guilty of "deserved on our own". It goes on, Europe is one thing today, in half a year it can be something else, in a year or two it can be something else. Mrs Pusic says "Europe will not solve our problems". The last time I spoke about Istria here a month ago, I pointed out that I am deeply convinced that large exports of the EU's economies will be profitable by this referendum. Tourism should also profit, buking is good, 57% more at some fairs than last year. International co-operation should develop, the young people they spoke of should clearly prosper in all this. A slightly larger amount will be withdrawn from the EU even though Croatia will have to fill the European budget, so who we read from 1.7.2013 to 31.12.2013. Croatia can withdraw 687.6m euros if I'm right, but it will have to pay 267.7m euros. So that's that ratio 1:2.5. However, specifically regarding this report, which today is the case on the page. 10 of this summary review, among other things, is said: "First, zero value added tax rate, VAT, all types of bread, all kinds of milk, books, HZZO medicines and scientific journals means that this is no longer the zero rate in line with the legal gains of the Union, so that Croatia will end or be able to introduce minimum and reduced rates at the latest with the date of entry into the Union." It is announced that VAT will increase from 23% to 25%. Let's let those tourist rates go, it's more important that VAT is reduced to food, so it doesn't and it needs to be done by now 25%, so that we don't turn into a country that only poverty brings the country out of the crisis. The neoliberalism that I've always experienced, it's one socialism for rich, feudalism for poor people. Someone's gonna say IDS is in a liberal association, I agree. Although I IDS have always experienced one resistance from the citizens of Istria to exploiting these areas. Tourism is important. Why I'm talking about this VAT, but food is life. Then "Two, Croatia has the right to continue to release VAT payments on construction land until 31. December 2014 The year." So from 31.12.2104 on construction land will be paid VAT on sale. That means the real estate, the apartments, etc. It is likely to collect, that it will be harder to reach the apartment, more precisely, to recognise that the sales tax on property paid by 5% can be replaced by a 5% VAT tomorrow. The international transport of passengers is then said to have freed the VAT, the threshold for registration of VAT taxpayers in Croatia, which is now 85 thousand kuna, 11 thousand 600 euros, could be up to 35,000 euros about 255,000 kuna. This means that legal and natural persons carrying out economic activity and who make annual income less than a certain threshold will not be subject to VAT payments. In fact, it should be read in a way that VAT will be paid but will not be in the VAT system in such a way that, according to invoiced invoices or invoices, VAT will be paid within 30 days, but will do so as today, craftsmen in the system do up to 85 thousand kuna per payment. That could certainly help the micro-economics. I quote 5, then here we have "European level of taxation of tobacco products we are obliged to reach only 31 December 2017, so for a monopoly cigarette they fought there in 6 years. On the day of Croatia's accession to the European Union, the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families will cease to apply in areas where the exemption from payment of value added tax is prescribed for the purchase of personal cars. So from 1.7, it's going to be paid, but I'm doing the same thing if for one differentiated rate one can't feel a single blow like that in any way. Seven, no later than the date of accession to the European Union, I quote, Croatia will abolish the exemption from taxation of foreign money donations and imports of donated goods by religious institutions. Now here we come to the church, to the Concordate, to those four '98 contracts. Now let's let go of the question of religious science. The question of denationalization, the 300 million kuna, but the church doesn't pay unless I'm wrong about VAT. Now let's let go of the charity again, the blessings, the funerals, clearly it won't be taxed, but some entrepreneurial activities of the church could be done by that. Why, because when they build something they usually pay in cash, I'm not going to say that it encourages a gray economy because the one who gets such a job will just say thank you God that more of such simple jobs. But now we're getting to shipbuilding. That's where the spear was broken. Since '97. To this day, we have recovered or donated 35 billion kunas, 5 billion euros, and in the same period, ships worth 5.5 billion euros or 40 billion kuna have been exported. So the construction of the ship in a Croatian way was followed by support from cca 90% and it is nowhere in the world. And where we are today, the entire branch is on its knees and the question is whether it can survive at all because even the state can't follow it under these circumstances anymore. And what I'm afraid of, let's say from the five major state-owned shipyards in Croatia, we can eventually take it all down to one, at most two shipyards, which we can primarily thank for destroying our shipowners in our own time who, by some chance, survived as an example. Croatia's line could order ships in Croatian shipyards. But all that I'm talking about is on our souls, not on the soul of the European Union. Borders are being lifted towards Slovenia, according to Hungary, okay, if Slovenians were to build roads towards Croatia. Public control is increasing. In Croatia, we have that absurd law, but it is not Europe's fault in public procurement again. Why, a violation can be punished by local self-government, the responsible person in local self-government, and not by those who have 10 times the amount of resources in the state structure. It is certainly not European, it needs to be changed, etc. On page 67, industrial plants must be reorganised for so-called. environmental permits. The question is, how much is it going to cost? Agricultural holdings in 4 years must build storage tanks for manure, etc. which is simply impossible, because Croatia is without money, the village is on the verge of sustainability. What to say when our peasant sells a kilo of pork for 10 or 11 kuna, it's really a shame, it's a shame for a peasant because it humiliates him but it's even more embarrassing, I would dare say, for the state because of the former bosses actually doing the poor. But the support for the village should stay as it is or should be bigger and it should be kept in mind, only that everything goes again to those biggest combinations and to the former Pics who are now in private property, etc., and these little peasants nothing. And finally a small sector. I said big guy's gonna make a fortune, and as far as the kid's concerned, I don't know. Some 350 thousand people are involved in large and medium-sized companies in this country, with about 750 thousand people, and these small ones need to be taken special care of. Of course, for the end, Europe does or does not. Absolutely, it won't be easy for us. Behind us is this administrative, so to speak, adjustment through 35 chapters. Normally these chapters as to how to express themselves are not life, life is text, paper, life is the market, how to survive on the same, etc. Europe must be giving it a chance, certainly giving it a chance. Their market is becoming ours, but so is ours. I'd be, as Mr. Pupovac spoke to me far more carefreely if we were to enter Europe with our banks, with our telecoms, with our INAs, without converted systems. I read that the state is going to enter, and that's being asked of banks, into bankrupt, insolvent companies, and we're selling something that can still exist on the market. I mean the bank in Croatia insurance, etc., etc. It was also once part of our sovereignty under quotes, but then it was state, today it's private, we know whose. So Europe yes or no, absolutely yes, but once again, this Europe will not work for us. We will do as much as possible and it is fine, but Croatia has potential and I want to believe that Croatia will profit from Europe. The referendum I am deeply convinced that it will pass, among other things, the higher letter of the Constitution because most of the outcasts decide, should not be the supra-al majority, etc. It would be great if that happened, I want to believe that there's time for these people, our citizens to be motivated. Whoever's interested will come out, he'll be for, who doesn't have to, but there's no regrettable enthusiasm. And that will be difficult it is clear, but without Europe, I'm sure it would be worse. And lastly, I want to believe the same way that tomorrow Croatia will never set conditions for its neighbours in the environment like that. Neighbouring friendly, brotherly Slovenia has set up the Republic of Croatia and I want to believe that as soon as possible all countries from that "unlucky" Balkans as Mr Pupovac or ex Yugoslavia called it tomorrow will also become members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1574	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Party Retirement Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1575	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad I can talk today about this topic in front of the Croatian Retirement Party club. A few days ago, I had the honour of taking part in the organisation of a meeting of all representatives of Croatian pension associations with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and their first meeting with new Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. One of the basic messages from that meeting certainly referred to the fact that pensioners who I think should always be stressed in Croatia make a truly respectable population because there are more than a million and 200000 and who are all voters. Through their associations, they gave unambiguous support to Croatia's entry into the European Community, i.e. the European Community. According to some studies, although this may seem unusual at first sight because changes are usually brought into contact with younger generations, pensioners are, in the highest percentage, committed to Croatia's European path. Assuming that the years of old age and all that are bad are still good, and that is wisdom, it seems that just because of wisdom, the pensioners have come to understand the importance of this decision very responsibly. Many of them, as if you remember, say Boris Dvornik in "The Great Myst", although born in this country during their lives have changed several countries without anyone asking them about it, without their will. This is actually the first time that people will ask under which roof they want to live if we do not count a referendum on Croatian independence. As for the benefits that the Union will bring to Croatian pensioners, they are largely different from the benefits that all other citizens will have from the Union. Unfortunately, pensioners will enjoy the fruits of their decisions shorter, but their responsibility is also to have the right to choose for their descendants who will not have to if they leave Croatia in search of work as in a small number their parents and grandparents did to cross the state border. As for the extension of the working age for those who are about to retire, everything is more or less known and said. We're already in Europe. We will work longer because this is how it is done in Europe, and I believe that the average life span of our population will be approaching the developed countries of the European Union. Although we are making progress now, the life expectancy in Croatia is 76.3 years, with 72.9 years for men and 79.6 years for women. The figure in developed countries is several years higher. For example, in Spain, France, Italy and Sweden, an average 80-year-old experience is expected for men and 85-year-old women. It is known that by accepting European standards, Croatia has had to extend its working life to its workers, but it will also not happen overnight so that the equalisation of the retirement of women with men in 65 years of life will take place until 2030, which will take place 3 months a year, as negotiated during the process of agreeing the position and already being implemented. One of the specific advantages of the European Union, which is closely concerned by the care of older citizens, is social policy. The European legislation aims to create equal opportunities for all including the prohibition of discrimination on any basis which, of course, includes the age-based basis of so-called ‘the European Parliament’. Ageism. So the age of impatience and exclusion and discrimination of age in Europe does not live, and these are the rules that we will, which we will accept and which we will implement. Special attention is also paid to lifelong learning as regards all age groups alike. European funds encourage the expansion of the social services network for older people and disabled people who are expected to have a large number among pensioners. When it comes to lifelong learning that has started to be mentioned in us only in recent years, which in Europe and the world means education up to the most mature age, therefore it is important to include pensioners that Croatian citizens will be able to have the exact same conditions in all universities as all other citizens, regardless of their study or training as it implies and possible redundancies. Significant benefits for pensioners are linked to Croatia's entry into the European Union. They lie also in the protection of the interests of consumers as well as the supervision of the achievement of the objectives of health policy. Consumer regulation and supervision will allow for a higher level of product safety, better health protection as well as a general increase in quality of life. This should also reduce the cost of treating diseases caused by the use of insecure products that we often read about in the media and which are mostly due to the fact that it is usually cheap products of suspicious quality and origin precisely because of the poor property situation that is exposed to pensioners. It is of particular interest for Croatian pensioners to regulate the availability of medicines on the Croatian market. It should be pointed out that the transitional period of 4 years since accession to the Union is ensured for the placing of finished medicinal products on the market under European rules for medicinal products registered in Croatia. As a representative of the party whose interest is in the interests of other than past work, there is also current work, so I would also like to say a few words about the change that brings to the great European community in this regard. This primarily refers to the freedom of movement of workers and the right to employment as well as to stay during employment in another Member State of the European Union. For emigrant workers and members of their families, which is extremely important, this includes, with the rest, the area of full social security. So, health insurance, pension insurance, unemployment insurance, accidents and family giving rights. This practical language means that Croatian citizens will be able to work freely in the countries of the Union without special authorisation or work permits except in those countries that decide to maintain the existing restrictions, which can be done in the worst case for seven years. It is important that Croatia also retains the right to apply equal restrictions to workers from other countries, i.e. the state that has maintained the restriction. A worker who moves to another country after joining the EU will have all the labour and social rights and tax benefits that all other citizens of the country have during their working relationship there. Croatian citizens need to know that the European Union's social policy aims to achieve a high employment rate, as well as safe and sustainable revenues. This means, among other things, that the rights of workers in cases of collective surpluses, bankruptcy and transfer of business, as well as labour safety and health protection rights, are strictly defined and protected. If we are talking about the inflow of labour from third countries, which has recently scared us of Eurosceptics, it is important to know that the system of labour permits that we now have will remain in force so that the inflow of labour will be fully regulated as well as boredom and kept under control. In view of the specific role of HSU in the Croatian Parliament, I focused only on those topics that are of paramount importance for pensioners and workers. Of course, that is not all, and particular attention should be paid to the fact that better protection of human rights at all levels, which is extremely significant, given that pensioners' rights in this country have repeatedly been seriously compromised. This is no doubt a civilization's reach that guarantees EU accession. And finally something quite personal. For me, the answer for Sunday's referendum has no alternative and any other answer would be proof of collective and individual irresponsibility towards the efforts that Croatian society has made in the past 12 years. Not in the referendum would be the same as if a team of hikers climbed 100 meters to the top of Mont Everest, and then because of possible risks, not because of objective circumstances, they gave up winning the top. You will agree that this would by no means be responsible and mature behavior. We look forward to the announcement, us in HSU, we are pleased to announce the strengthening of European Parliamentism. Something that is very current right now. And in the finale, I am pleased that after this referendum, after EU accession, we will participate in the creation of Europe of peoples, Europe of wealth of diversity, the Union of Workers' and Social Rights, which are quality future challenges and what is indeed a challenge for Croatia to participate in this. That is why I call on all citizens, especially those I represent in the Croatian Assembly of Retired People and Retired People of Croatia to attend a referendum on Sunday and round the ZA for the European Future of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1576	Thank you very much. We hope the pensioners voted for other parties, not only for HSU, but I'm joining your call. Mrs. Jadranka Kosor on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1577	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues. I am honored that on behalf of my party, on behalf of HDZ, on behalf of the HDZ Club, in the Croatian Assembly, I can invite all those who have the right to choose, all those who have the right to vote to go to the polls this year and round the ZA. To vote for Croatia's entry into the EU, to vote for Croatia's future, to vote for everything the EU means, for everything we try to promote as our cultural and every other identity. So we want the number of voters to be really big, to be respectable. And I am sure, on behalf of my party, that the number of those who will define Croatia's entry into the EU will be really great. We have a few more days to contribute to that, everyone in their own way. Of course, all of us who think that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU is something good, that in this way we are really committed to stability and peace, but also to prosperity. So, on the basis of what led us when we negotiated, and I must say, it was a great honor and a great pleasure to run the government that brought this job to an end. And right now, I can share my memories with you today. Of course I won't talk about them, but I would just like to point out that it was extremely solemn and extremely honorable to be in Brussels on 9 December last year and sign the Accession Treaty and put an end to one part of the big deal. And it was particularly impressive to be at the European Council meeting afterwards. So, I had the honour of being the first Croatian prime minister to participate in the work of the European Council and sit at that table equally. However, in this preparatory phase, but a particularly great achievement was what we were able to achieve then, and I must say that there was a lot of work to do about it, too, to make it clear in this document of December 9th that Croatia will become a full 28-member EU member on 1 July 2013. Which means that the Croatian language will also become an official language, 24 of the EU's official language. They're actually symbols. When I mention Croatian, it is also a symbol of statehood, but also a symbol of many and the suffering and struggle of the Croatian people over the centuries. So this is the moment when we can remember how many people have suffered and given their lives for Croatia. How many people have tried to speak Croatian in their Croatian over the centuries. These are moments that are quite certain, for me personally, full and proud, but also moments in which we must turn a moment backwards and look at what we have done. And because of these achievements, because of what we have done together, all the citizens and citizens of the Croats and Croats, all of us together must be proud and this is the crown and that is why I am convinced that most of those who go to the polls will really round it up for ZA. Negotiations were long and heavy, right. It's a moment to remember that. Croatia actually had the hardest negotiations. We, I often repeat, think that this is just as important a fact when seen in general in the context of the negotiations and the times that we have been through and all the achievements that we have achieved on that path. So, Croatia after '82, so after Greece the first to enter on its own. The first to conduct negotiations on its own. We had the most chapters 35, extremely much. When I came to the head of the Government of the Republic of Croatia a small number of these chapters 5, actually 7 was finished. And it took a lot of strength and effort to move on. Most of the chapters we had chapter 23 extremely difficult and demandingly, we were the only country that negotiated in a completely uncompromising environment, we had negotiated, and in particular these last 2.5 years were in this atmosphere, so at times of major global, economic and economic crisis recession, when the Member States were busy themselves, when they were busy solving the crisis, solving difficult problems, nobody, especially now should say they weren't particularly interested in us and everyone was saying, here and at my first meeting with the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso, who said that he believed that we would unblock the negotiations and that we would move on but that it certainly depends on us on our strength, our tenacity and our determination, and it proved to be real. So this is the moment when we should turn back briefly in 2009 when we were looking for the key to the deblock. The key to deblockation was an agreement with the Republic of Slovenia, the key to deblocking was to build the bridge of trust personally and Prime Minister Pahor and myself, but certainly between the two Governments, and I want to thank now all those who contributed to it, my associates, the closest associates who are through the so-called. silent diplomacy, from encounters to encounters tried to find the right solution. So, every word was weighd, every move related to the arbitration agreement was weighd, and here by the end of 2009, we managed to agree an arbitration agreement this is the moment when I think I have the right, as the then Prime Minister, to say that we were really exposed to fire from all sides. So, few who supported us, few who in this Parliament, I must say, remember the discussion of the arbitration agreement, remember the small and large mice, and all kinds of insults to our account, but I am glad that we have survived and survived, and I am glad that today we are all talking together, that we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament, I am glad that the ruling majority has accepted my proposal to be the topic of this session, I am glad that most of us in the Croatian Parliament have gathered together about something that connects us, something we agree on, and it would be great if such examples were more, it would be great to say now from a perspective of two and a half years ago that such a kind of consensus was either or that it could be achieved about some other issues that have been related to solving the crisis or to solving the crisis problem of the recession. So, we managed to endure and I want to say here that we were exposed to numerous criticisms at that time that they had stopped or that they had been extinguished at the moment when the Holy Father in January 2010 mentioned a new year's income for the diplomatic assembly that pointed out the example of Croatia and Slovenia which had found ways for a dispute standing on the table to be unsolved for 18 years, or if you wanted in the drawer to find ways to solve it and since then everything about the work of the Government to resolve the remaining chapters, and most of them about their opening and closing, as far as our feelings were concerned, was somewhat easier. Here, ladies and gentlemen, through 2010 we have done a very difficult job, we often mention Chapter 23 most often but I think that sometimes we are unfair, we should mention all chapters, we should especially highlight the chapter on agriculture, but also all of them, not to mention them, in particular, I would point out Chapter 8 concerning shipbuilding, but also to address the fundamental issues of the Croatian economy, industry and in fact we are solving, or closing and opening Chapter 8 in fact talking about processes in the Croatian economy, what kind of economy we want and what economy we see in the next 5 or 10 years. So, it took a lot of effort but above all knowledge, so this is an opportunity, to thank all the negotiators for thanking everyone who's involved in their work, dedicated work, above all I point out knowledge in this work, we'll never be able to mention them all. I would like to thank all the civil servants who are often called public not to do this or that, but without qualified, educated and professional but also motivated civil servants who, above all, participated in this process, we would certainly not have finished this work. Remember, in 2010 I mention this now because I think on this example how we solved problems and how we ended negotiations, we, or rather, from this example in this experience, we policy-related ones can learn some lessons about the future. So how can we all get together about a problem and how we can solve it together? That's why I think we have the right to mention in 2010, in which it was precisely in this House that I was trying to bring down the government that I ran, and remember I kept saying that it would be bad and that this would stop the negotiations and, as you can see, it proved that we were right. It would not be good to stop negotiations, we would not have finished negotiations until 30 June 2011 probably until the end of 2011, and we would now be standing as a country on the sideline track, and that would not be good for Croatia's future I am quite sure. So we were persistent and it paid off. It is embedded in what we can really call Croatia's future. Let us also remember the spring of last year, so Facebook protests, the consultation of President Josipovic, and the effort to actually stop the government's work, I am proud that we have not stopped, I am proud that we continued and proud that despite the political circles, we have been said that we will not finish negotiations until the end of June, we probably will not finish until the end of last year, and that although we do so and we end negotiations that will not be a special achievement. It was spoken from political circles, and I am very glad that all those who have said this actually stood by us at the moment we finished negotiations and we were able to say that Croatia won another historic peak. Ladies and gentlemen, these are all the reasons why I believe that because we have shown strength and strength and we have shown that we can and we have shown that it is in some symbolic way and here I especially want to thank Croatian defenders without whom there would be no free Croatia and then there would be neither opening nor closing negotiations nor entering the EU. So, what I'm saying is that in some symbolic way, it is the end of the negotiations and the last bull in the storm. In some symbolic way, when you look in the historical context, we are really at that point here we enter this circle of European civilization that we belong to forever. We're right back home. As we marked 20 years of international recognition of the Republic of Croatia a few days ago, I also said that then the European Community of the EU and the European Communities then recognised Croatia and told Croatia about Croatia. And now Croatia says on January 22nd in a referendum on Europe for the EU. So, on 1 July 2013, We become members, new perspectives are opened, a market of 500 million people, but also a respectable envelope of 3.5 about billion euros for the first two years of membership. So, it's crucial, ladies and gentlemen, that we sit at the table of the European states and peoples as the 28th member states, and no one will ever decide without us again, we together, equally with an equal vote, will decide at that table. Of course, at the end of the day only Mr. President, I would like to say that he dreamed about it, wrote about it, tried to do so, and was the first Croatian president to do so. Franjo Tudjman, who wrote in the 1980s that Croatia is a place in the EU. Well, since he's a Dr. The Tudjman founder of HDZ can rightly say that we now realize this generation and its dream. Once again call everyone to a referendum on 22 January and vote for Croatia's European future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1578	Thank you very much. Of course there will be more and more integration issues in this House not only because we are entering the EU, but because we ourselves will contribute to it. Thank you very much, Mrs. Kosor. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Mr. Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1579	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Croatia's European story and the desire to become a full member of the EU takes practically from the independence of the Republic of Croatia, although only 21 February 2003 Croatia will formally apply for membership. In April 2004, we received a positive opinion from the European Commission on our readiness to start negotiations with the EU, and on 4 October 2005, the two sides formally began negotiations. Since 4 October 2005, until 9 December 2011, when the president, Mr Ivo Josipovic, and then Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, signed a treaty on the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, a huge effort has been made for all participants in the negotiations, but a result that is absolutely valuable to the invested energy, with an extremely extensive years and in the previous practice of EU accession to an unprecedented negotiating process. Just because the process lasted so long, we believe that all citizens in the Republic of Croatia have had the opportunity to gain a basic idea of what the EU is and to realize that our strategic interest is to become part of that community as soon as possible despite the fact that it is going through an extremely difficult period today. Finally, I would like to remind you that the issue of EU entry is one of the few political issues in the Republic of Croatia that almost all the political forces of this country view equally, and so do we, who represent members of the national minorities. I don't think there should be any particular need to elaborate the many advantages that bring us to join the EU. So I'm going to mention only one thing that I think is far the most important. The country's economy, which today is in a very invisible position, and it will likely be in the next few years and our entrepreneurs, with the entry into the EU, is opening up a market of about 500 million inhabitants. It's an extraordinary opportunity for economic progress, of course, if we can take advantage of it. The first prerequisite for us to take this opportunity is to not only see our opportunity in pre-accession funds, but to be aware that our production and services are being opened up to the number of small market niches across this vast EU market that can be one of the main generators of our economic development in the long term. In order to find and present these market niches as soon as possible to our entrepreneurship, it is necessary for the newly elected government to take certain steps and in cooperation with our universities and institutes, as well as for the Chamber of Commerce to find a way for information on the potential of the EU market to reach our entrepreneurs as quickly as possible, so that they can plan their future business moves on the basis of such information. The number of Croatian diaspora as well as the number of citizens of other countries in the region in the EU is a specific feature that can be used in a business way. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU is of special importance for members of national minorities. For those minorities such as Italians, Slovenians, Czechs, Hungarians, Slovaks and others whose home countries are already EU members, our country's entry into the EU would be a sort of thing to call it home. It would increase the sense of security, reduce the risk of possible discrimination on any basis in Croatian society, but also create an obligation to contribute by members of those minorities to integrate Croatian people and all its citizens in a simple and faster way into the EU. The same feeling of returning home would certainly have developed among a large number of Croatian citizens or members of the Croatian people who live and row across the EU. For us Bosniaks, Serbs, Albanians, Montenegrins, Macedonians and members of other national minorities whose countries are not members of the EU, the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU means the opening of European doors and for countries from which we originate or for countries in the region. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and other countries in the region see their future in the European Union and our entry into the European Union would certainly simplify the resolution and open issues within the region, which would bring positive effects for all the peoples and citizens living in these areas. In addition, our entry into the European Union, we are convinced, will speed up the entry of other countries from the region, which is not only an interest of members of national minorities as a diaspora of those countries in the Republic of Croatia but also of a large number of Croats living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and other countries of the region, and thus also of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. In Croatia, members of the Roma national minority who do not have their home country work with us in the Parliament. We also believe that the problem of the Roma minority, which is very specific in both our and European spaces, will be easier to resolve within the frameworks of the European Union. Often in public from those who are against the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, it can be heard that by entering the European Union, there will be a loss of Croatian national identity and loss of part of state sovereignty. We, members of the national minorities, have just witnessed that such fear is absolutely irrational and unnecessary. If we integrated into Croatian society manage to safeguard and cultivate our national existence through our language, religion, culture, tradition and love for our peoples and countries of origin from which we do not see how this would put Croatian national identity in danger in the European Union at all. The Croatian people together with us other citizens of the Republic of Croatia will build an equal Europe of the future in which they will, for example, build a future. Croatian language to be another among the equal languages of the European Union. The Croatian national identity will be only added and the European one that will enrich each of us individually, but also all of us together as a collectiveity. As for the loss of sovereignty, that fear is completely abstract. It is only true that the Republic of Croatia, together with the other members of the European Union, will make decisions on equal and democratic grounds concerning the whole of the Union and will not be discriminated against against other members at all. So we would like to point out once again that every Euroscepticism is absolutely unfounded. However, it is clear and loud to say that in the European Union we will not have honey and milk on our own, but today the European Union is in serious economic difficulties. They are caused by the overall economic situation in the world, but also by the irresponsibility of the governments of individual Member States of the European Union, above all, in the spending of our own budgets, which we must learn from. But in such a European Union, our development prospects are far greater than if we were to stay out of it. It is important to know that our economic development will depend exclusively on ourselves, i.e. on the amount of work, energy, knowledge and organisation we will want and know how to put into place the economic improvement of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We would therefore like to point out once again that the time ahead is crucial for the best preparation of the entire society to join the European Union with a special emphasis on our economy. Finally, I call on all of you in this assembly to make every effort to explain to the citizens of this country the need to come to a referendum as large as possible and vote for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I am also taking this opportunity to invite all citizens of this country, both members of the Croatian people and members of the national minorities, to attend a referendum on 22 January and vote for a European Croatia. The European Union is our future in which we will have as much as we do, and we will be happy and satisfied if we know how to enjoy what we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1580	I thank Mr. Hodzic. A representative, Dinko Buric, has applied to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd like to correct just one incorrect allegation, here's the one at the end, when you mentioned that Euroscepticism or that it's unfounded. And that is not the way to talk about it, because even in the European Parliament itself, which we are the seven political groups, there are two that belong, so to speak. Eurosceptic political groups in the European Parliament itself. So it's not something that, or people who are less valuable when we talk about it. We need to represent, give arguments why to be against arguments why to be against, but never put in a position to say that these are people who are less valuable, that they are, were such statements. I remember an inappropriate statement from the former foreign minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1582	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1583	Mr. Jandrokovic, who once told these people that they were the manipulators and the Euroknowers. I don't agree with that at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1584	Comrade Buric, time please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1585	As an example, I cited these two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1586	Foreign Minister Vesna Pusic reports on behalf of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Let me thank all the clubs that took part in this debate. It always seems to me, but today it seems to me that somehow it seems to all of you that these discussions are never enough, that these discussions are useful, necessary, and I hope that this is a symbol of some more intense and open discussion on the topics of the European Union in the time ahead. We will do this in public everywhere, especially in the Croatian Parliament, which will play a key role in determining what will be discussed here at open sessions and putting these topics on the agenda, so that in the Croatian Parliament this will be one of the many discussions that we have on the subject of both the European Union and European regulations and some of the dilemmas that are being discussed here. If we look at all the research that has been done, the mood among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is for the European Union, the rough relations are 60:40 for and against. The output from the research projections is about 60%, 62 if people are taken who are sure they'll come out more if they take those who aren't safe yet but could get out. Therefore, it is obvious that the mood among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is positive as far as European Croatia is concerned. The question is whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will also come out in this relationship, which exists in all studies, to present their opinion in the referendum. And that is why it is important and I think it is extremely important that the clubs in Parliament invited all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to come out and express their opinions. And if this really happens in a large number, there is no problem that as the outcome of the referendum, the majority attitude that exists in Croatia will also be reflected. But it's good to discuss it, we have to discuss it, and I think we'll discuss it even more in the future, so let me get involved in a few issues that have been opened by representatives in their debates, or representatives of clubs in their discussions here. One of the topics that has been opened today in the debate, and quite often repeated in public, is the issue of sovereignty. So to what extent the issue of sovereignty is somehow threatened by Croatia's entry into the European Union. The sovereignty is classically defined through three points. So there are three points by which classically defined state sovereignty is now not to go further into details. One is the control of the territory by the authorities. The second is a monopoly on violence by the authorities through the military, the police and the judiciary. So not everyone is pushing his own justice, but there are institutions. And the third right is for the authorities to do whatever they want on their territory. These are three classic elements of sovereignty. Neither at this time were we in the European Union or not in the classical form of its sovereignty defined there is no such thing as sovereignty. The control of territories, of course, exists from the point of view of applicable laws and legal regulations. However, with visa waivers, freedom of movement of people of course is possible much more than was ever possible before both goods and people and money and knowledge circulates across state borders with increasing intensity. The monopoly on violence through, say, institutions such as the United Nations and the forces of the United Nations, Interpol and such international organisations and institutions that have the possibility of military action and the possibility of police action across the country and this monopoly of the state to violence is extended to institutions that are above the state. And finally, perhaps in this decision the most important right of power to do what it wants within its own authorities. A United Nations declaration of human and citizen rights, perhaps a basic document that says that is no longer true. There are standards in protecting human rights, even in protecting the environment, in behaviour, in protecting minority rights, in protecting children's rights, in protecting women's rights, in protecting the rights of racial minorities. So, people of different races. There are standards that must be universal for the whole world. And therefore, the idea that a single government could or that, as Nikolai Ceausescu had ruled Romanian, there would be no specific Romanian democracy, and there would be no specific Romanian freedom. Freedom is and must be equal for us, for the Swedish, for any man, for the people of Rwanda, Ethiopia must be on the same level and mean the same thing. The fact that she's not talking about it today isn't good, it's just that that's the way it is. But in this respect, limiting the power to do within its borders to its citizens whatever comes to mind is a good thing, is a positive thing, that there are universal standards in human civil rights that reflect whatever country you are from and to which you are entitled regardless of what country you are from is a good thing. Hence, this traditional or classical notion of sovereignty in the fullest sense of words in the modern world and in modern Croatia, which is among other things NATO members and members of the United Nations, no longer exists. The topic of Croatia's team in European institutions has also been opened. One of the problems that is often mentioned in relation to the European Union is too little European Parliament strength compared to the European Council and the bodies in which the ministers were presented, whether the prime ministers of the Member States. In the European Council and Ministerial Councils where Croatia is represented and every other country presented with only one member of Croatia will be represented in this way. In Parliament where we have the truth 12 observers and later 12 MPs Croatia is one small segment. But what is before us is certainly an engagement to strengthen the strength of the European Parliament and in this sense our team there, which is not a national team after the full membership of the Croatian Parliament, but rather Croatian citizens directly. So, chosen directly. Only observers will be elected from the Croatian Parliament, followed by direct elections and then by representatives of Croatian citizens to be heard in the debate. The fact is that, as representatives of the European Parliament, extreme Eurosceptics, people who are absolutely soul and body against the European Union but who are sitting in the European Parliament and who advocate their position. So they function within the existing European institutions. I'll stop here because I see you warning me about the president's desk. But I'm going to take my chance a little bit later to say something about a subject that's also mentioned here, and that's a matter of monitoring. So, this surveillance until the date of entry, which is exactly what it's all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1588	I thank the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. We have an application for a correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear colleague Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I'd like to correct the incorrect claim when it comes to the sovereignty of this third category, so the right to be within your borders is done as you wish. You said then, here's the conclusion that it's good that you can't do what you want and that it's standardised. But that is not true because it is not a good thing, it is not a good thing that within your own borders you cannot pass laws for your citizens as representatives of these citizens, which is the Croatian Parliament, thinks, but as it will be dictated from the European Parliament. Because I will remind you, on page 24, the documents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that I was talking about from September 2011, here I quote: "By means of the Lisbon Treaty, the principle of EU legislatorate has been reaffirmed by Declaration No. 17 to the Lisbon Treaty. In this case, in the case of new members,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1590	Time, fellow Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1591	Here I go. Joining the Union means that the state accepts not only all current EU legislation but also future EU laws. Therefore, we are talking about a primate that will have the European Parliament and the European Commission above us and that needs worried representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Which will be our ingenuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1592	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. We have 48 registered colleagues and colleagues. The first to enter the debate was the honourable representative of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. I will try to shorten my exposure because, on behalf of the clubs, a lot has been said why Croatia should actually become 28 EU members. In fact, history is widely marked by politicians and politicians. Europe has many negative experiences in its history that in the 20th century alone, two major world wars were waged on its soil. Europe has survived the separation, the enmity, the Cold War, that is... policy and in this experience began by European politicians to integrate European countries and peoples. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia also as one of the member states on the ground of Europe has had a difficult and painful history and we do not want that history repeated. Today's EU is, in fact, the goal of all European countries to become its members because then it means not only integration in economic, cultural, historical terms, it means, as many times already said here, one stability and peace for European countries. The question arises as to why some of the countries are not EU members, which sets an example for Norway and Switzerland. They also, according to their legislation, are integrated in the way they run their policies, the way they run their economies as if they were in the EU. That's what their citizens decided. Whether Croatia will join the EU will also be decided by our citizens. However, our history of the state is very short – 20 years. And in those 20 years, we also had a war, so we had to prove through war that the state was defending our territory and only the beginning of this century, so somewhere in 2001 the governments and Parliament began a serious conversation and realization and a desire for Croatia to become an EU member. We started with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2001 and then the negotiations that were individual, which were long lasting and which were difficult and negotiated on the most chapters compared to all other countries that have become so far members of the EU. We can be satisfied or less satisfied that some chapters have been negotiated, but how we will lead our policies economically, culturally, socially, how much we will really integrate into the EU will depend on us. No matter what is said here, certain laws will require that certain standards of conduct be in line with the EU. Why is it important that we are a member of the EU at this very time of crisis when many EU countries are also experiencing a crisis and are fighting in different ways and are taking different measures to get out of this crisis? Croatia is not in a good situation in economic terms. We today have a few years in a row of economic activities. Our economy is weak for objective and subjective reasons. We have little investment, we have little foreign investment. Our consumption, especially state spending, is so high that it is no longer viable. Our duties are high, our duties are under unfavourable conditions. If only through this economic and social segment we are looking at the future of our country then we will say that Croatia must enter a large association of European states because it paves the way for its economic and social prosperity. But he will not be, this prosperity will not come just because we will become a member of the EU. It will come in a way that our citizens, our businessmen, as well as our politicians accept the standards of behaviour within the EU. Croatia is regionally very differently developed. We need significant investments in certain regions in Croatia. The European Union has an important policy of regional development throughout Europe, as well as a country within the EU itself. This means, if we are to use European funds wisely, especially funds for regional and rural development, that means progress for many areas of Croatia that are now underdeveloped or less developed. This means that Croatia will be able to place its products within the big market of the European Union without borders, without customs, but that means, of course, competition from other producers and other countries on Croatian soil. It means then transfer of technology, knowledge, competition, and that means only those who are the best will survive. Croatia needs it, needs such competition, needs additional knowledge, needs additional technologies, we do not have enough of our own batteries and we are focused on someone else's battery. We want Croatia to be a stable country in which foreign investors will invest in bringing us new knowledge, new technologies and new employment. So far, politicians have talked about the European Union, so far negotiations have been discussed within the Croatian Parliament, already said here through the National Committee but also through reports discussed at plenary sessions. This day most likely ends political debates, politicians will end their presentations today, and on Sunday Croatian citizens will say yes to the European Union, they will tell Croatia to be a member of the European Union and some such message will be from the Croatian Parliament, it will be sent to citizens to go to elections as much as possible, to vote each one according to their own beliefs and opinions, but to say yes, Croatia needs a European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1594	I thank my colleague Zgrebec. The next is distinguished counterpart Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1595	Thank you. The debate on the referendum from my point of view is on two issues, one question is: Am I for Croatia's entry into the European Union Yes or No? In fact, what Prime Minister Milanovic said is the world-wide issue of many of us, and the second question is, do we accept Croatia's entry into the European Union under the conditions agreed in the accession process? So, are we satisfied at all with what's been negotiated, are we satisfied with that. What is the problem with the concept of Croatia's self-accession into the European Union. The entry into the European Union is not a question of cultural, civil or historical membership of the Republic of Croatia, we belong in the territory of Europe unquestionably to Switzerland or to Norway. Here we are both geographically and historically and civilizedly. The issue of entering the European Union is to enter into a clearly defined political economic formation with the denial of one part of national, economic and ethnic sovereignty, for what? For the sake of expected economic improvement, certain social stability and one historical timing in which the Republic of Croatia is located. The HDSB as a regional, national, democratic and pro-European party is not against the European Union but we share a legitimate fear, as well as the fear of most Croatian citizens, most Slavonia residents, that we do not know, in the referendum, what we actually vote on when we round up "DA" or what we vote for if we round up "No". This is a secular problem, and the other issue is the negotiations themselves, the way we negotiate, whether we are entering the European Union as one sovereign state that has conducted quality negotiations, whether we have achieved satisfactory negotiating results, or whether we are entering the European Union on our knees as we have most often entered into various state or para-state formations in history. Even deceived and underrated. All of the accession negotiations were secret from the very beginning until the very end, the public should not have known a thing or knew about the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia, about the course of negotiations, about the content of the chapters concluded. Negotiations were concluded, the President of the Republic of Croatia and then the Prime Minister signed the contract, set the date when the Republic of Croatia would enter the European Union and only then, practically post-festum recently published negotiating documents. This was preceded by changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in order to facilitate the referendum response to this particular issue that we are now facing. For us in Slavonia, the most important part of the negotiation process was chapter 11 of agriculture and rural development. I, from these publicly published documents published on the government and foreign ministry pages, tried to reconstruct the course of the process in Chapter 11. The screening includes a share of GDP agriculture of 6.5%, 48% of the Croatian population lives in rural areas. In Croatia 448 thousand 532 family farms are... already total households, the total agricultural area available in the Republic of Croatia is one million and 392 thousand hectares of which a million and 77 thousand hectares are used for agriculture, respectively 77% of the total agricultural land available. Most of it is privately owned, only 229 thousand mostly state-owned land is owned by the company. As negotiations were under way, as is evident from the available negotiating documents, we asked that in the event of a transitional period that the amount of the European Union from its agricultural funds would participate in the total amount for direct payments would be 80% in the first year, in the second 90% and third 100%. Then we recovered, so we asked with the first year the European Union participates with 50% in the second 60 and 10 percent up to 100% for the next 5 years. I quote the explanation: "In the course of the next seven-year perspective, the amount of 100% would not be reached but only during the third financial perspective compared to the current one. Anticipating possible changes (reduction of the direct payment system) there is a risk that in this case the Croatian agricultural producers would not have made the full amount of the financial envelope available at all. Furthermore, projections of the total receipts of EU funds and possible payments by the Republic of Croatia in the EU's common treasure show that there is a serious risk that in the first two years of membership the Republic of Croatia will be a net payer if the share of EU funds with direct payments would not be significantly more than the proposal of 25% of the first year of membership." What did we do? What did we sign? We have signed that it is currently 25% of the EU's share of agricultural payments in the first year. ... 25%, 30, 35, 40 and then 10% each year, and only after 10 years of our membership will our agriculture be financed from the EU. We asked for the possibility of resuscitating unused agricultural land to agricultural land three years after joining without increasing the financial envelope, we did not get and did not contract. This is about 315 thousand hectares of Croatian agricultural land. So, the difference between the total agricultural and the one that has been used so far. We didn't get any transitional period. 315 thousand hectares of Croatian agricultural land excluded from the contract. We asked for the possibility to build new vineyards by 31.12.2015. We accepted that there was no raising of new vineyards after entering the EU except for the reconstruction of the old ones. We requested a transitional period of 5 years after entering for use of untreated seeds and fruit material. We didn't win. On the day of entry into the EU, this production ceases. We have requested a transitional period of three years after joining for the application of support to the current scope of the culture that is in place. We have agreed support only for some products, these are sugar tails, olive oil, tobacco, dairy cows and fertilizers. Screening data "During the period '02-04. Croatia counted on an average of 244 thousand dairy cows and the production of 972 thousand tonnes of milk." In 2009, we had 212 thousand 220 dairy cows. We have agreed to pay direct payments related to the number of throats for up to 105 thousand 270 dairy cows. That's half of the total number that we've screened in the screen shows that we have about dairy cows. We asked for a production quota of 900 thousand tons of milk. We've arranged a production quota of 750 thousand tons of milk. It's here somewhere in the level of current production that's been dropping for the last eight years. From screening data "Croatia currently has 750 thousand sheep and 230 thousand goats. It's a total of 980 head goats and sheep." We have arranged for direct payment for a maximum of 542 thousand 651 head of goats and sheep. 400 grand less than we said we had in screening. What about these 400 grand? Sugar, we asked for an annual random sugar quota of 217 thousand 429 tonnes. We've contracted 192 thousand 887 tons. We requested a transitional period of three years from the date of accession of the national quota for imports of raw sugar of 80 tonnes, so we dropped to 40 for 16 euros. In the end, we agreed on an import quota of another 40,000 tonnes over three years but with 98 euros in customs duties per tonne. There is much more, no more marmalade, no more young Portuguese, no more Croatian Prošek. What are we entering into the EU for negotiating? We were negotiating a jam. Pekmez is the only Croatian winner in Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development. This is the only thing Croatian negotiators have managed to offer since the entire Croatian agricultural tradition and what is a common Croatian product on the European market. So our producers will have to throw themselves into the production of jams. In the negotiations in the last round.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1596	A fellow Đurović's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1597	Of the 37 negotiating positions 12 withdrew, 19 changed, the rest was 9. It's final. As far as Chapter 11 is concerned, Croatia has not negotiated anything and signed everything. Farmers got a lot of restrictions. Croatia has remained a major financial burden, and the EU has taken over a small part of its financial commitments, Croatia in Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development have entered the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1598	Thank you very much to my colleague Đurović. Foreign and European Affairs Minister Vesna Pusic called again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1599	Thank you. I'm sorry, and I'm really not going to answer every debate, but I'm going to make a note of it in the blocks like that. But we just have a few things to react here because it's just incorrect data. Let's just say that all that remains is marmalade and that Croatian negotiators, or jam, and that they only negotiated jam, means that you haven't seen all the products that are taxuously listed both wine and oil and a whole series of products named in the negotiating position that they negotiated. Of course, in all chapters, and especially in these negotiating initial positions were maximum. Because the negotiations were therefore the most possible that Croatia could achieve in the first place, and it was negotiated at the level at which you quoted in some cases to be significantly lower in some of the lower ones. But that doesn't mean that it's actually inside of it that you can present that you only negotiated jam because it's not true. You probably know that it is not true, because the number of products and product names negotiated in agriculture is listed. In addition, it will indeed require a different way of thinking and a different structure of the budget. In addition to direct payments and incentives in agriculture, rural development, renewable energy sources and environmental protection are foreseen. Slovenia, for example, renewed its total agriculture from environmental funds. So this idea that Croatian agriculture has brought to the knees on which it is at the moment, which is that the instrument of agricultural development is direct payments. The means to which you give people in your hand and after that, nothing is the wrong idea. The idea of combining incentives and rural development projects with environmental protection projects and renewable energy projects is something that we will have to develop Croatian agriculture and is for Croatian agriculture rescue. Ask any successful producer from the olive groves, cattlemen and vineyards, such approach to combining incentives and quality of life projects in rural parts of Croatia is a rescue. You said yourself, a little over 6% of GDP from agriculture, but over 40% of people live in rural areas. So obviously it's not just about incentives that go directly into people's hands, but also projects to raise the quality of life and standards in rural areas. And in this way we will have to change and that is indeed true, change the approach to the development of Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1600	I thank Minister Pusic. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Comrade Drazen Djurović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1601	Yes, Minister, we have protected several products individually, but so it says in the documents that it is the only Croatian product which, as a new product, is unknown to the European Union until then, enters the common market. Now I'm kind of paraphrasing, so we've protected a few Croatian brands, but they're famous. The name of the famous one was Rakia, or I don't know how. So it's the only jam. It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1602	Thank you. There is another member of the HDSSB club to discuss. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, when I listen to what my colleague Djurovic said, when I listen to our negotiating positions or platform as it is liked to say, Croatian positions regarding negotiations and agriculture, as well as in other chapters, and in connection with the accession of the European Union, then I cannot but remember a saying that Ivan Erdödy, the Croatian ban said in Pojun: "regnam regno non praescrit leges", "the kingdom does not prescribe laws". But here we are as a sovereign and independent state of electoral freedom in the Homeland War, negotiating with another "kingdom" and here is the quota that fellow Djurovic spoke of year after year or month after month, going into a negotiation building or where negotiations are so slowly falling. These days it is very common in the use of the syntagma Croatia is returning home. No, Europe is returning home because Croatia was Europe and Europe, but it is also rich cultures, traditions, civilizations and all that solves Europe in this regard. But the European Union is a political creation. We're not talking about a Union in culture, a Union of tradition, a union of civilizations kind of, but we're talking about political and economic formation, and I'm talking about a Federation that doesn't work on the principle of community 28 states. Let's look at the structure of the European Parliament and look at the functioning that we have read and who someone has read here today, Col. Buric, that it is actually a European delegation that is there, if there are 12 members, 12 euro-parliamentarians, that they will be divided by political groups. It will not work together or sit together because it will sit in a group of Socialists, one in the Group of the European People's Party, one in the Liberal Party, does not matter where, depending on the composition of the European first observers, and then later on, parliamentarians. Therefore, they defend themselves and represent the interests of these groups of political ones, and all come from Croatia. Now, I was thinking today about discussing something other than this EU Parliament structure and the way it works, and so are the Commissioners and the Council of Europe and everything else. It's right on that line, so it's not a community, it's a Federation of States, it's a political party. That's how it works in the institutions that exist, which are the four institutions that I don't repeat. But you all know how many problems we had and how Slovenia was not the problem, and yet it has not been solved, here is that arbitration agreement with Slovenia, and you know very well that regardless of the outcome of the referendum the problem remains he positive therefore for or against. The problem of our borders, the external borders that may become the Schengen borders with Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 and even Montenegro. There is an intergovernmental group to address the border with Serbia where Croatia has thousands or tens of thousands of hectares on the left bank of the Danube. The problem of Charengrad Ade hasn't been solved yet. When will this be settled, will the European Union deal with Serbia? Schengen, so we also have a problem with Bosnia and Herzegovina but also a problem on which Mr. Matušić will immediately jump and the problem at Prevlaca, in the far south of Croatia. The HDSB is primarily regional and then a democratic and national Croatian party and a pro-European party, but it cannot and cannot ask questions that arise from the question and citizens, from the question of our people, from uncertainty or uncertainty. There are a number of questions that citizens ask, and then given the different interpretations of all possible and political options and associations, and I don't know who I remember and one sentence that Franjo Josip said after his first visit to Zagreb when he was asked, you were in Zagreb, as the Croats seem to you as a people. He said great people just don't know what he wants. And so today, all of us together, all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are in one doubt, a difficult doubt but I would say that many have been brought into one apathy, into one regency, into a poor social status which then gives birth to the idea that this would be something new that we would vote on and what we would be able to do to bring about some kind of improvement. And here are the points, and I wonder if bringing Croatia and Croatian citizens into this very state of hopelessness and apathy has been targeted, targeted and implemented in the work of the government since the time we were given the right to negotiate for entry into the European Union in 2003. Did not target the sale of banks, the sale of INA and a number of other Croatian treasures and Croatian resources. So today, just like this, I don't want to say on my knees that we're going to go to a referendum and see a rescue in the European Union. Because many, hope dies last and that is exactly what this hope has come from such a bad administration in Croatia and we are not to blame ourselves. Our governments are guilty of this, our irresponsible and incompetent leadership of the state, the leadership of the state. Well, then here I believe that this is our HDSSB pro-European party going to pass, so pro, for or for people to say by Krleža and in Zagorje's, cocoa style, is it not to say "no matter whether or not there's no such thing as a star that doesn't bhu". That it's a quote from Krležin, so I can't change it in Slavonic terms. But I have to read it like it says. It's a quote, isn't it, Mr. Thinman? That's why I heard your statement yesterday watching TV where you were in Rijeka and so threatening the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in that sense. So, in that sense, further indifference and even worse social status unless it enters Europe. I think it would be much better if we started to think about how to fix the economic situation, start production and everything else, so with Europe and without Europe and start filling the pension fund. But let's take it easy for a while. [[/Intruder Stazic: Time of fellow Grubisic. Time!]] One sentence only. So, no matter what, HDSSB was and in its programme declaration was and remained a pro-European party. Therefore, our thinking you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1604	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. It's Mr. Davor Stier's honorary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The information provided by the Government, which follows the conclusions of the previous Government on the conclusion of the negotiations, is a good and quality one material that gives us an overview of everything agreed with the European Union and what are the advantages of membership. And the greatest advantage is to join a community with which we share the same values of peace, freedom, democracy, rule of law, social market economy, solidarity. The European Union is therefore a chance for Croatia, a chance for a Croatian economy that enters the common market of 500 million people, a chance through European funds. Only in the first 6 months of membership of over 800 million euros available, the chance for farmers who will benefit from direct payments from European funds, the chance for craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are just applying the European Charter of Small Economy will have additional guarantees on the further movement of all administrative barriers, the chance for young people who will be able to study at European universities under the same conditions as the citizens of the European Union. Of course a chance for every single citizen, for our local communities. Once the President of the US Congress Tif said of the Nile that every policy is always local and it is important to present to our citizens what the European Union means to them specifically, and to local communities, here is a Samobor parliamentary representative, which means to us the European Union. So this is precisely the possibility of using European funds and building that railway Zagreb – Samobor. The railway that was built when we were part of Central Europe in 1901, which was then unfortunately then abolished by the communist authorities in Yugoslavia now by returning to Europe, we have a chance to rebuild it. Of course, Croatian entry into the European Union does not mean that we are becoming part of Europe as Pope Benedict XVI said in June during the pastoral march on Croatia. Croatia has always been an component of Europe in that cultural, historical sense. But it is necessary to become part of Europe in that political and institutional sense. And that is why it is very important that we have fought to enter the European Union by our own means without any packages, that we will enter into the European Union our national identity, our Christian values, the traditional values of the Croatian people, that we will also enter with our Croatian language, which is becoming the official language of the European Union. We are entering the European Union and proud of all those who have defended Croatia from aggression. And of course it is the task of all of us here to also value the values of the Homeland War in a European sense as an expression of the free spirit of the Croatian people. It was precisely because this trip to Europe was routed from the very beginning of our independence that I will remember here and that date on January 30, 1990, when tens of thousands of Croats were gathered in Ban Jelačić Square, then the Republic Square and then they were winding together Croatian and European flags. By then, we wanted to send a message to the whole world that we want an independent, sovereign Croatia in a free and united Europe. And therefore, when we remember these moments with the right and with pride, we can also remember the roles of the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tuđman, who has just installed one member of Croatia's return to the west as part of Croatia's state policy and built a national consensus on it. The success in building such a national consensus, of course, meant that on the other hand the political scene was also at one point responsible for joining such a project. And therefore, as a proud HDZ, I can say that our rival, former Prime Minister Ivica Racan, did well when he submitted for EU membership. The alliance between Racan and Sanader, then the Alliance for Europe between major political actors, was the backbone for the work of all governments, calling on the parliament, the president of the Republic. But when the road to the EU came to a blockade that seemed hopelessly truly blocked our European perspective was indeed an important, key agreement between Prime Minister Kosor at the time and Prime Minister Pahor for Deblocking. At that time, we also showed political responsibility and determination to ensure Europe's future, and indeed, the representatives of European countries were able to value it, and they are still doing so through different letters, which the Presidents Kosor refer to. But what I am more pleased about is that we here in Croatia have also achieved this level of political responsibility that this information of the current government knows how to value the merits and merits of the former Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor and the HDZ government in the deblockation of negotiations, in reaching an agreement with Slovenia, in the conclusion of negotiations and in the signing of the Accession Treaty, of course, with President Josipovic. Why am I talking about this political culture and this maturity? It is precisely because talking to citizens feels that in one segment, it may be minority, but there is also this skepticism which, at least in my belief that I understood it, is less related to the EU, and more is skepticism towards the abilities of Croatian politics that within the EU knows how to protect Croatian national interests. And that's why I think it's important that we show in this debate that we also have this political wisdom and responsibility. Responsibilities primarily towards Croatian citizens. And to speak and to open discussions about what will happen after we join the EU. Of course, if that's what Croatian citizens decide. How will we represent Croatian national interests? How will we play this new role as an EU member? In my view, three are the most important strategic guidelines – this is our Central European orientation, our European policy towards Southeast Europe and the membership of the Croatian club of fiscally responsible EU members. As a member of the EU, Croatia will, of course, have its representatives in all European institutions, but Buric said in some points, of course, it will also decide on a qualified majority. It will also be necessary within the EU to find allies of the Member State with which we will be able to promote our interests. In this respect, our membership, our integration, our coordination, our cooperation with Central European countries, I find it extremely important. This corridor from the Baltic Sea to the Adriatic Sea with more than 70 million inhabitants is a strategic importance for Croatia's policy within the EU. In the previous term, we managed to get Croatia to join a more urban group, for example. on energy, it is necessary to do so on other issues. European policy towards Southeast Europe as an agent for the expansion of European values and cooperation and peace, but also foreshadowed that European policy towards Southeast Europe and our national interests to protect our additional national security through European policy towards the neighbouring region, but also the interests of the Croatian economy. And finally, this membership of the club of fiscally responsible states, because if ever there was a division between old and new members today, the new division is precisely fiscal responsibility and competitiveness of the economy. This means to set foot in Croatia through system reforms, reforms of our economy. Many have been launched during accession negotiations, but it is the fact that some have been delayed or stopped. Rarely because the opposition at the time did not want to provide assistance and support for a wider political and social consensus. Now we don't have time for that, to calculate and wait, we have to go through reforms. These reforms are of course long-term. They, and that should be said to Croatian citizens, will need perhaps more than one election cycle. That is why it is more important that they be an integral part of Croatian state policy. This reform path that will be effective if we remain on it permanently. Of course, these reforms should be done with and without the EU, but it is much simpler if we do so if we are EU members. We will be allowed to use funds of course, there will be capital and loans under more favourable conditions, there will be simply different mechanisms that the EU provides that will allow us to carry out better these reforms. It is therefore important for Croatian citizens to see on Sunday how important it is and what the weight of this decision will be in the referendum. On our part, of course, we'll give that support and we'll take part. We should enter this dialogue without fear
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1606	Time, fellow Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1607	Because the decision is in the hands of the Croatian people, we will respect it. And I am convinced that the Croatian people will know to decide that Europe is not only part of our history but part of our present and future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1608	Thank you for the debate, colleague Stier. It is up to the esteemed and esteemed colleague, Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1609	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament. Here is the debate that has shown, in fact, how much the EU is a complex mechanism. And it is good to talk about all segments of this process of integration of these adjustments. However, especially in the days of such a decision as the referendum, it is good to return to certain elementary things, some beginnings, because they actually have the answer to all the things that we had the opportunity to listen to from the speaker’s speech today and later in this individual debate. The European Union was first and foremost created as a peace project. That's what Mrs. Zgrebec said. A peace project that is the European continent for the first time, especially the countries that have joined in the project, has brought peace. A peace that is unprecedented in the history of Europe. The project produced everything we today call EU policies. The first policy was the policy of industry, the integration of the coal and steel industry but also then as a peace policy because it was then thought that one who had coal and steel had the ability to wage war and wars were mainly fought in Europe for it. And because of that when this first coal and steel community with high supranational authority was created, it was seen that it could go deeper and deeper, that this integration could go wider, that it could go into all the more or less segments of social life. And today we are where we are. The European Union today is not what those who have established it could have predicted, as we can probably not predict today all that the European Union will represent in 5, 10, 15 years, 50 years, but what is most important is the way. The way we talk, the way we agree, the way European countries can reach their common goals. And this is based on values, but the European values are Croatian values. I will not go into the widest of course because there are a lot of debates but I will talk about a segment and a chapter in which I was personally involved and and later after the negotiations have been concluded it is a common European foreign and security policy. Therefore, the European Union has also developed this policy, which is still developing, which allows it to play an active role on the international stage in order to promote its values, primarily peace, multilateralism based on the Charter and principles of the United Nations but also on the protection of those values that are important to European political culture, which are human rights, fundamental freedoms and, of course, the development and consolidation of democracy. In this respect, the European countries still see the reason why they come together and come together. This policy will, at the moment when Croatia is hoping to become a full member after a successful referendum, only 20 years, and that intensive part of the development of this policy has actually been somewhere since 2000. For what? Because the world is changing, and very soon. We have witnessed for 50 years the bipolar model of international relations in Europe, followed by a period of unilateralism in international relations with the leading role of the United States. Today the world is becoming multipolar, today it is not just the United States, today there are new countries, the growing forces of the world such as Brazil, India, China, South Korea, South Africa tomorrow, Europe if it wants to play an equal match with those countries must perform together. I am pleased that also in the government programme, and these governments are precisely co-operating with these countries, however, the fact is that without the European context, Croatia can play a more important role in this regard. As a result, we have important European Union mechanisms, and the European Union already has more than 800 bilateral agreements with the countries of the world. The European Union is establishing a European External Relations Service, a kind of start of European diplomacy that helps us and will help us get where we are physically due to financial or personnel constraints and we are unable to do so. The European Union is establishing a concept of shared sharing and association of competences and on this plan. In addition, Croatia's foreign policy by entering the European Union especially towards third countries gets one dimension it did not have, and that dimension is that it becomes attractive to the very fact that it is a member of the European Union or a member of the NATO Union. It was already seen when it became certain that Croatia would complete the negotiations. Representatives of countries such as Israel, China, Brazil, then Croatia became additionally attractive for them because through Croatia they can and will seek a way to strengthen their position within the European Union. Let me add to that an important dimension of security. This is the first time in Europe's history that Europe faces a crisis, an additional financial crisis, and defence budgets all over Europe, is due to this in the European Union, as a guarantee of peace and stability. The crisis has always meant that the states are arming themselves. Today you have a situation that in the last 10 years in Europe, defence budgets have fallen by 37 billion euros. You have a situation where France and the United Kingdom think together strategically and have signed a strategic development treaty for nuclear weapons cooperation with the Navy and that we are not going into detail. These are the merits of the European Union. That is why I am sure that Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens, will recognise if nothing of these advantages guaranteeing us and creating one basis for normal economic development in which Croatia will share all the advantages but also those challenges that exist in front of other Member States of the European Union. The European Union does not offer a solution to all issues, does not offer a solution to all crisis situations, but offers a way out of crisis, offers a way to come to a solution and it seems very much to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1610	Thank you, too. We have one replica on this exhibit by our colleagues, Bozinović. A colleague, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1611	Thank you, Vice President. The distinguished colleague is the fact that today the European Union is one chance for Croatia and for the results of this situation in which the Croatian state has brought exactly Croatian politics, so that policy that has been acting as a government. I only hope that throughout history there have been a series of such speeches probably less in this House perhaps sometimes and longer a debate has been held in this House when they say that there is no better than the Croatian-Hungarian settlement, that there is no better than Austria-Hungarians, that there is no better than the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, that there is no better than Yugoslavia. I hope that this debate, that there is no better than the EU, is actually going to be so that there is no better. But here's what's gonna be interesting to all of you. It is precisely doing this flag that the EU is standing here in this assembly that it is based on Article 4(1) and Article 11. The Law on the right to access information then Deputy Head of the Public Relations and Information Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia answered one question, which is why the flag stands in the assembly and other institutions. Among other things, the answer states that the EU flag on the official buildings of the central government and the building stands out from 16. September 2004. For years, he now sees this oral order from the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So we have an EU flag, we're going to go to a referendum, and we don't have a decision at all where we're going to put that flag.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1612	Time for my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1613	Thank you. So I'd like to at least make that decision, that we can report it to the Parliament without it being an oral order.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1614	Thank you very much. Before we continue the debate, one notice. We have 43 registered colleagues and colleagues to discuss, and since many MPs are coming to ask questions here at the table, we won't have a lunch break, we continue to work without a break. Therefore, let those who are hungry take advantage of the time when it is not their turn to argue. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Petar Baranovic is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1615	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to do something shorter, but I think it's time to look back on some things. In the profession from which I come, there is one fundamental discipline, which is the determination of course, which is something that awaits citizens and voters of the Republic of Croatia on Sunday. And in order to correctly determine the course except that you must be familiar with the port in which you want to sail and come, you must know both the port and the starting point from which you engage in this journey. The fundamental thing that perhaps should be told honestly and truly to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this House is that there is an alternative to the EU, what are the real possibilities and potentials of Croatian society? And if we look at the real situation, the results will not be positive from all the cases that Croatian politics has been taking over the past 20 years. I will refer to my former profession, which in many ways depends today on the success of managing the natural wealth management process in considering the right policy and making the right decisions. I belong to a generation that went to sea 20 and two, three years ago, we were young boys, quite inexperienced and scarce knowledge. On ships and then we were retroflots, we made the catch extraordinary because we were privileged to be the first generation to sail more seriously to the high seas. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we set sail for the high seas that were intact. Today, 20 years later, as one of the fishing representatives, I slowly pedicated myself to a political profession. Today I speak before you in this House, and my colleagues who, like me as young men, came with a smile satisfied with the sea 20 years ago, are sailing with the eyes of tired old men who fear for their profession. Is the sea dying under your feet, and that's why we're the only one who deserves it. It's not the EU's fault, it's not our legal gain, it's our own fault, because we haven't passed the exam in that discipline as many others have. The same situation is also the situation in agriculture that today exists and thanks exclusively to billions of kuna incentives to which the question is to what extent and how long will such a accustomed and organised Republic of Croatia be able to pay. Who will take responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, when one day the Croatian state budget is empty, when we fail to implement reforms that rely heavily on the revitalisation of industrial production that does not exist without a market that you cannot implement on a tight market of 4.5 million people? Who will take responsibility for the future generation? Who will be able to look into their eyes, following the fact that we are by the number of highly educated young people far below the EU average, and that the Croatian state budget is already losing a step in funding today and that we cannot implement a reform of higher education in such a way as to meet the standards that exist in those countries that some are so skeptical of. Let us learn to speak the truth in this assembly and in Croatian society. It is not true that the EU's acquis is hidden as a secret, it is not true that we do not know where we are going. The process has continued since the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It's 12 years long to navigate at this speed. The pages of the legal gains of Chapter 13, the English original version and the Croatian translation are already yellow sheets of paper in my living room because as a responsible man representing the EU's fishermen I printed and read already in 2005. From then on, they're always the occasional lecturers in my life. The responsibility to represent these people has brought myself into this state council that has a commitment, which we have sworn to, to give people the right information and the right assessment. Is it possible to raise the question that anyone serious in Croatian politics, and ultimately in the public opinion among citizens, thinks that the legal frameworks that produced this situation in Croatian society are better quality legal gains than any wisdom generated by traditional democracies of European parliamentary states, that we are indeed 4.5 million people smarter, more responsible and more thinking and that we can make such a legal form that will be more effective, more successful and quality than those countries that have a tradition of democracy and responsible management. Tales of sovereignty may best reflect a comment made this morning by Mr. Prime Minister when he said that the form of sovereignty is changing in real time today. Let's ask ourselves a question of what would have happened if we hadn't agreed to an integration that today allowed us peace and stability, the security of our external borders. To make the level of security of Croatian citizens look today to rely on our budget and to rely on resources that would be realistically available to us to maintain a defence force that guarantees the integrity of the border of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to tell people the truth, it is our duty to get out of this assembly after this debate among citizens, to look them in the eyes as my colleagues do today in Sibenik, Drnis, Knin. Sometimes to endure an insult, a verbal attack by those who do not understand, for even to the society in which the main word is guided by those who do not understand or those who understand and who want in any way to protect their petty particular interests. The foreign minister has that courage, she played an important role in this story. It would be our turn to gather so much courage and to face the citizens to tell them the truth. It's time to step up. We've had enough time to think. The choice is very simple. On one side of the hall are the doors in which the British, Danish, French, Austrian, Italian, Belgian, and other European peoples live. There are other doors in the hallway that live in people who are definitely clearly much worse than we are and who have a much smaller and much worse perspective. In my profession, the former decision is made completely clear, in real time, quickly and unequivocally. There are no two solutions, there's only one. And there are no two truths about one question, there is one. The real truth is that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to go to the referendum on Sunday, to invite our voters and our fellow citizens and to round up "yes" in this referendum because it is the only thing we are obliged to do to future generations if we do not want to ruin them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1616	Thank you, colleague Baranovic. We have on your exhibit a correction of an incorrect assumption. Comrade Drazen Djurović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1617	Correction of an incorrect allegation that said that agriculture existed solely thanks to billions of kunas from the Croatian state. I find that allegation incorrect. Agriculture exists exclusively thanks to the work of Croatian peasants and Croatian farmers. And billions of kunas must be pumped into agriculture because agriculture has been introduced into the process of a rapid transition in the process of adapting and introducing the European Union. The Croatian peasant could live and can live the way he lives, but in this process, the money must be pumped into the Croatian village, i.e. in Croatian agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1618	Comrade Djurovic, at least until we change our Rules of Procedure, let's continue to stick to this. This wasn't a correct correction to an incorrect quote, this was a replica, this was a correction to one's position. We have the opportunity to rise and replica and stick to the Rules of Procedure. Here I'd like to pray that we all stick to it in the future. We're continuing the debate. It's our guest, Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister of Foreign Affairs, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I was born in 1979, and for as long as I've known myself, I don't remember a single period in our life, in which European life, what comes from Europe, was not a role model in social, economic and political terms, and it wasn't what we should seek and what we should see. In the '80s in Yugoslavia, everything that came west of our border with Europe in this political, social and economic sense was free, modern, what we should accept, and everything that was east of the border was free, obsolete and something that we needed as urgent and as soon as possible to reject. And in the '90s when we were creating and the Croatian state of ideals of Europe was created, the European Communities at the time seemed to me in golden letters written in ideals and our independent states and in peace, as well as in the Homeland War. When we talk about the Homeland War, there's a lot of issues we won't agree on for many years when it comes to it. But if there's something that we can all agree on that people didn't fight, they didn't suffer and they didn't die so that Croatia would remain a small isolated country, Balkan if we wanted to. That's for sure, no doubt about it, and we can all agree on that. Croatia has been separated from this Central European political and economic circle for the whole 20th century, and this is really an opportunity that is being provided for us, it is indeed a return home, regardless of whether Croatia is returning to Europe or Europe to Croatia. In public and in this House, it has often been said that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not sufficiently informed. I have to say, when I hear it, I feel like I'm living in another country. I have the impression that in the last 10 years almost no political, economic and social topic has been opened here in this House, but in both the media and the public, some more, but in one way or another it has been directly related to Europe, to the European Union, with our accession to Europe, with a stalemate or progress in this process. It seems to me that here are the debates on the smallest details of Croatia's entry and adaptation to Croatia and Croatian legislation to the European Union. The National Committee played a particularly large role led by the current foreign and European ministers. It had representatives of all parties, each of them had the right to veto and hundreds and thousands of experts from various areas, from various businesses, from various spheres of society participated in discussions on the National Committee, gave their arguments, their proposals and received information. We are also at a political level and I will use that word of historical unity we have achieved on the issue of the European Union. Most of these 10 years of power and opposition have worked together on the Croatian accession process and what I particularly appreciate is that even now that the situation has changed, when the recent government has become an opposition, and the recent opposition has become a power that unity has managed to keep around this topic and very personally, very personally as far as I am concerned, I have sworn as a substitute representative a day later than most of you and the first laws that I voted for in this House were those three European laws that have been proposed jointly by the parties to the Kukurik coalition and club of the largest opposition party. And it's personal to me that symbolism is important and I'm glad it was exactly something that I first raised my hand on in this House. In the past 12 years, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have chosen 4 parliamentary majority from which governments were created. Three of the four majority, therefore the coalition government of Ivica Racan, the second Government of Ivo Sanader or later Jadranka Kosor and now the coalition government of Zoran Milanovic were elected to a clear and unequivocal programme of Croatia's entry into the European Union. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia have already told the European Union at the polls three times already, for 12 years the citizens have voted for the European Union in this country. The second topic that is often mentioned is the loss of sovereignty. Perhaps for us here in the Parliament in some way that, perhaps for colleagues and colleagues in the government in some way, in some circumstances, in some situations. But for all of us as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, our sovereignty is growing dramatically. We are becoming sovereign citizens of Europe. I can go to Sweden with my I.D. They can be educated wherever I want, they can work wherever I want and not just me, but all citizens of the Republic of Croatia can vote in local elections wherever we live in Europe, and not speak at all how European funds and funds from European funds actually strengthen the sovereignty of all of us in our countries through regions at local level, at that level, actually below the state level. All countries that have entered the European Union have registered a rise in standards, strengthening investment and job creation. It's not something to discuss. They're statistical facts. We have huge funds available for both agriculture and the economy and for transport, both for public administration and for education and for all of those things that make up the spine of a country. It's the backbone of the state and we can't say that the state is weak if we suddenly get a new injection of funds that actually strengthen the spine of our country and all of those systems that make the state today. Our voice will be heard in political bodies, but it's all actually something we know. And what I don't understand, which I don't understand is at what point it became questionable in this country to live better in Sweden than in Croatia, to live in Germany better than in Croatia. At which point it became questionable that the European Union, the Union of the countries that are most successful on the globe of the Earth, are the richest countries on the globe of the Earth, in which the rights of human and civil all who live there are best protected from all the countries on the globe of the Earth, in which are the best kindergartens, the best schools and the best universities. It is really not clear to me at which point it has become questionable and why we are actually discussing the European Union in this way today at the moment when we are one step away from entering that association. Joining the European Union is what is given to citizens as an opportunity in a referendum for 4 days and in fact a decision on everything we have ever dreamed and planned for ourselves, for our children and for our children's children. It's a decision made once in a generation if you're lucky to live in a happy generation that such a decision can make. And we, of course, will not wake up on July 1st, 2013 either smarter or more beautiful or richer, or from more jobs. But if we wake up on July 1, 2013, as a member of the European Union, then we have a real chance of making things more beautiful, getting richer, getting happier, having more jobs and making the standard for all of us in every way better and stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1620	Thank you, colleague Coleman. There's a replica on your exhibit. Comrade Dinko Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't want to use an instrument to correct an incorrect quote but to deliberately exchange opinions. I'd like to vote first. It is true that it is in Article 22. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for the possibility that every Croatian, every Croatian citizen, and even for local self-government units in another country and for the European Parliament, cannot only vote for the national parliament. However, also reciprocally and every other citizen of any other country will have the same right in Croatia. I hope we don't experience the fact that we have 25,000 Italians voting in Zadar. I'm saying this as an example now. However, what I wanted to tell you about the finding that it is not true that they are in Europe, it is not true, that in the European Union, the richest countries in the world are as you have said. There are also countries in the European Union that are going through a difficult crisis, which are very in charge, in which we ourselves witness people going out to protest and the question arises and why they are going to protest if all of this is so ideal there. I've purposely replicated this now to point out that the truth is still somewhere in the middle. Not all honey and milk is in the European Union, nor is all black in the European Union, as they show, at all costs, which are more difficult to enter unconditionally and those who are unconditionally opposed. It's not all black, but it's not all white.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1622	Thank you, dear colleague Buric. I believe that I share the opinion of everyone in the Chamber when I thank you for using the Rules of Procedure correctly because this gives my colleague Coleman a chance to answer your line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1623	Yeah, I'm joining that thank you. As far as voting is concerned, it seems to me that the simple principle of the Union that we are entering is actually a democratic system that we have chosen for ourselves, of course, must respect the possibility that someone gives us that we are also giving it reciprocally. So if someone lives in Zadar, then you can vote in Zadar as well as I can vote in Stockholm if I live in Stockholm. As for wealth or wealth -- the fact is that some of the EU countries are in crisis, it is also the fact that these countries, despite the crisis on average, continue to make up the richest countries of the globe. So they're also the richest with the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1624	Thank you, colleague Coleman. Next in line for the debate is Honorary Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1625	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We are at the end of an extremely important period in the history of our country. That's a period I'd say more than 20 years. I wouldn't tie him up just for officially ten or twelve years how intensely we're talking about EU accession modes, I'd be back in '89, I'd be back in '90. when all those with whom the Homeland was at heart were seriously considering its future and when the Croatian political people made several very important decisions and set several important national goals. All of them, except for what we're talking about today, have so far come true. First of all, we wanted parliamentary democracy, we wanted freedom, we wanted a multiparty. We have ensured this in 1990, and we are not used to it and not used to it because we have not had traditions in democracy, and to this day we are working on this great project, and so are we who are sitting here and reflecting the existence of this multi-party parliamentary democracy. The second goal, also very important, was to establish a market economy, to leave a socialist, communist model of economic governance and to step into a large space for us until then unknown responsibility and competence of creation, but also to answer for what is being created. And we have done so with great hardships, and we deal with them even today. With all the problems, tycoonization, privatisation, robbery, conversion, today we work and live for our own account. The next goal was to isolate the Republic of Croatia and ensure its national self-loathing, but also state independence. And that's what the citizens decided at the first referendum and got away with. Afterwards, we set ourselves the goal of making this country that we have inhaled the shape and institutions of the state that we are building to date become internationally recognised. A few days ago we marked the 20th anniversary of the day when a group of countries gathered in the then European Community recognised the Republic of Croatia. And we were happy. Many of us remembered that day and shared that happiness with each other, but also with pride. Then the national goal of number 1 became the liberation of Croatia, the reintegration of all occupied areas. Suffering, perhaps most difficult, the bloodiest target and its achievement because thousands of lives fell for it. Many families are left without their own, and today they have no knowledge of theirs. When we have also succeeded in setting two other very important goals, protect ourselves in the long term and become part of a security system called the NATO Alliance and, of course, EU membership. We are now in the finale of an important process in which it is not only the finale of the campaign of those who are pushing for Croatia to become an EU member but also those who are struggling to do so. I have to say that most of those who are Eurosceptics in some way and I understand it from my own experience because I can say for myself that for a long time I was a post-scepticist – as a complete anti-militarist, I couldn't accept the idea of Croatia entering NATO at all for a long time. And there is among us a man who has assured me. Our ambassador at the time, and our current colleague in the assembly bench Mr Davorin Bozinović, gave a great lecture from which I learned everything I didn't know, and I should have known and then said that if they asked me, I would be for Croatia's entry into NATO alliance. However, among those who have been trying to challenge Croatia's goal over the past few weeks and the desire to join the EU, unfortunately in recent days, we have also witnessed attempts to hysterise this situation, rediculise the whole debate. What's happening in the last few days on social networks is incredibly militant, aggressive, a lot of insults with lies, misinformation, what's it for? Is this a public debate? I've been working hard these weeks, listening to Eurosceptics, defining at least one, two or three arguments that would rock me in my thinking. And my thinking is that on Sunday 22nd, I'm going to round up at the Z.A. referendum. And they couldn't convince me because unfortunately I didn't meet, read or hear a single truly sustainable argument that wouldn't be national romantic in the way that the state was thinking in the 19th century or that wouldn't be pro domo sua, that wouldn't actually hide anyone's fear of finally ending it or ending up with the scams, with games under the table, with all the things that we've been particularly proud of in the last few years because it's happening in our country. Fear is always rooted in the ignorance of the other, the other, the other, which is founded in ignorance. And I can understand those who say we don't know enough, but it's not enough to expect farmers in Konavli to be very interested in what was negotiated in Chapter 23 or that a fisherman from Sibenik will be very interested in what quotas are in the production of sugar. But all of us must be interested in why we cheated on each other in our time when we were showing other people's sugar to Croatian. And there lies the answer in sugar quotas. And so on. The time has come to take a serious look at the mirror and answer whether we are still ready to tolerate all the anomalies we consider in our society or are willing to continue to strain our sails in this battle that will clean up what is wrong. The process that lasted in the Croatian Parliament for 6 years, in which more than 500 laws were passed, changed, adjusted, showed us among other things that we had outdated, dysfunctional, in many ways improvised, bad, low, hollow standards. And the debate on all these 500 laws has shown us that there are standards better and more advanced than those we used and that, among other things, they have made it possible for both robbery and corruption and poor privatisation and that what is immoral becomes moral and that what is bad becomes good and that those who are bad become better, we have begun to interrupt. This very job in the Croatian Parliament has shown the benefit of this process, we have multiple benefits already before we become a member of the European Union, not only in harmonising our legislation but also in changing the way we think, which we correct, which we want better. But also let us not forget that so far different associations, business communities, units of local, regional self-government and entrepreneurs have already used 100m euros from different European funds, sometimes accessible, pre-accession, cohesion, structural and all that has been offered to us or offered. How many hundreds of projects in the Republic of Croatia have so far been funded and realised in our favour and in our favour. On Sunday, Croatia decides on itself and itself, I do not want to live in either the city or the country that will be perceived by its neighbourhood as an autistic, autistic, naughty, closed, self-sufficient community. I want to live in a free world where my neighbours from Velika Gorica, my neighbours from Turopolje, all of them from Croatia will be able to study and improve and work and culturally exchange and go to scientific projects to trade, travel freely and be citizens of Europe, and therefore I will vote in the referendum on Sunday. Respecting all those who are still afraid of it, but calling on all those who want good for Croatia and opening up its new perspectives and who want us to do even better, to learn where we are still weak so that we can be better so I tell them to come to the referendum and take advantage of this chance that is not given every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1626	Thank you, colleague Beus Richembergh, this debate of yours has triggered a replica of my colleague Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1627	Thank you very much. Well, a fellow disinformation spreads just when there's no quality public debates, when people aren't exactly familiar with what's waiting for them, maybe you are, maybe they are people in the Parliament, but they're not peasants, they're not farmers who don't know what's waiting for them, they don't even know fishermen as they say. Ask fishermen why no economic belt has been declared, why the European Union will be able to hunt in the Adriatic Sea. You're also saying that so far there's been corruption, I'm not defending HDZ, but so much corruption has been, why don't we wait a little while and raise Croatia on our feet, so we can get straight into the European Union so we don't go on our knees with such an economy and such exports. So why don't we crash, why don't we wait and go in when we need to, when we're on our own, when we know exactly what's waiting for us, and just like they said, I won't quote what they said before, but Croatia is our country, we will have to share Croatia when we enter the European Union, but we have to share it the way we want to share it. The way we designed it, not to come in as servants, and then what happens to these other countries happens to us. And you're all talking about how fantastic it is in the European Union. Ask Greece how, ask Spain, ask Portugal, ask all those people who burned buildings and cars in London and in France and in other countries and the European Union, and then we'll know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1628	We'll also hear the answer to the replica of my colleague, Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1629	My colleague Tomasic I will remind you of one fact, no one has ever invited us into the European Union, the European Union is a closed club in which we called ourselves 20 years ago formally 10 years ago and in order to enter that club, you have to meet certain criteria, we have been fulfilling them for 6 years with hard work. This claim that not those who should know is about right when they say the citizen didn't know what the law says, so he can't answer it, we know it's nonsense. The national committee that discussed the 10 round tables was attended by representatives, responsible people, professional organisations, different associations, different experts, representatives of all local and regional self-government institutions, and has been debated in an intense but open and detailed manner. The full interested public was involved and Croatia differs from those other countries that have passed the process and none as complicated and none as tormented as Croatia and that is why our success is greater, because we have passed and met the criteria that others did not have to do. Why? For our own sake, let us never look at the issue of the European Union as our foreign policy. It's an internal political issue because standardisation of everything that we're talking about here today has helped us to look at things differently and to live differently. No one in Spain will live better than the reforms that will be carried out in Croatia than we do. And because they are in trouble, there is hardly a country that is not, but mostly the problems lie in the abilities of their national elites and not in the inability of red tape from Brussels. Let us not be such as Greece, nor Portugal, nor as Spain look to those who are better, who do not have that kind of protest on the road and there are such in the European Union, we learn from them rather than from those who lived on other people's mangers and now pray that God does not exclude them from the European Union because, unfortunately, this European Union is their only possible salvation for them and their problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1630	Thank you. I now call upon the esteemed colleague Igor Chesek to be involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1631	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The undisputed fact that Croatia belongs geographically and culturally to Europe is also an undeniable fact that the HDSSB is a party to the pro-European orientation that the Republic of Croatia sees as a regional leader in the European Union. We expect that membership in the European Union will enable Croatian citizens to raise the rule of law, increase living standards, political and territorial stability. But the question is what is really waiting for Croatian citizens in the European Union, the question is what awaits Croatian farmers by entering the European Union. I am convinced that Croatian farmers are waiting for a large common single market in which I fear they will neither be competitive nor even with developed EU members. In this case, there is a special role in supporting agricultural production where older and more developed EU members are known to receive greater support than underdeveloped young members. For example, the support in France is known to be around 340 euros per hectare, in Germany as much as 410 euros per hectare, and in Romania, 208 euros per hectare. The Republic of Croatia has established an annual aid limit of EUR 373 million and the full amount of these support comes after a transitional period approved by Croatia by 2018. With regard to support, the question of the declared working surfaces shall be raised. If, according to the available data, the Republic of Croatia has about a million hectares of working surfaces, will there be an increase in the reported surfaces and will the total amount of support be increased in this case or simply the sum of the support be shared with the new larger total area? These are all issues that still plague farmers in the Republic of Croatia. When exercising the right to premiums in livestock production, the user must provide temporary accommodation for animals. It is important to respect... a directive that says that in every facility in which animals are located, a storage plant for the disposal of permanent manure must be built. Croatia has provided the possibility that, in the programming development of 2014-2020, it will finance the European Fund with a greater intensity of support, a maximum of 75%, the traffic related to the... directives, but the problem is that Croatian farmers will not be able to use these funds because the good part of the facilities built on family economies is not legal. The legalisation process of such objects is neither simple nor quick nor cheap. It is known that the legalisation price stands for 50 milk cows up to 80 thousand kuna. Therefore, it is necessary before entering the EU as quickly as possible to legalise the facilities in agricultural production, with as simple a process as possible and ultimately as possible to reduce the expenditure on agricultural producers. Problems affecting Croatian peasants could be listed indefinitely, but one thing is clear to all of Croatia before entering the EU hastily solve problems in agriculture because we have all the resources for the development of agriculture as a strategic segment in the development of the Croatian economy. In order to prevent the unprepared entry of Croatian agriculture into the EU, it is necessary to clearly define agricultural policy in order to increase investment in agricultural holdings in the processing and marketing of agricultural products, to increase the development of agricultural infrastructure, form the stock market and ensure the necessary capacity. Only strong agriculture on stable feet can survive on the big and competitive Croatian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1632	Thank you, comrade Chesek. Now it's my colleague Vinkovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1633	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I will begin my debate again with this response from the deputy head of the Public Relations Office, which was not written in 2004. It is written on July 13, 2011, and it speaks about the characteristics of the association Croatia intends to enter. It speaks of the EU, the flag of the EU, which is located on official buildings, central bodies, so this Croatian Parliament and also across Croatia's government, only thanks to the oral order of the then Prime Minister of the Captain with a small vitre of gentleman or other Ivo Sanader. So, just thanks to the oral warrant. It probably speaks enough of the seriousness of this debate, which is held only today here in the Croatian Parliament, which is one day, which is not conducted even at forums, which has not been conducted in detail, clearly, loudly in Croatian society. And that's why this accelerated referendum will take place on the tenth 22nd. Today, we are only discussing information and I will quote today the Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, who says "We have never entered into any greater force or integration in such a good way. It's not '45. Nor in 1918 when a plebiscite decision was made in this House without the participation of the people." Today I claim that the people do not participate, and I do not believe that the majority of Croatian citizens will participate 22. January, and I would like to remind you that during the previous session, this Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of then Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, with opposition from then on, the SDP, the HNS and the entire opposition, was against such a referendum law. So that the fate of Croatia can be decided by 10, 20 or even one citizen, if everyone else is lazy and rained on Sunday and does not go to the referendum. Therefore, the Croatian people do not participate this time, as all these surveys show that the necessary 50 plus 1% of citizens who are scheduled to decide on Croatia's entry into the EU will not come out on Sunday. The HDSSB is regional, national and we have proven it many times but also the pro-European party. Today, however, it should also be politically responsible, and today the HDSSB is. Today, citizens should be told, among other things, that dear Croatian politics, which together with you Croatian citizens, led to the creation and the Croatian defenders, led to the creation of the Croatian state in a bloody, imposed war by Serbian aggression and by the large Serb policy of Milosevic politics, by those who wanted the SAO landscape of Croatia. Croatia, which has a lot of lost lives in its foundations, but also in Croatian politics, which is all these 20 years, may be funny but then it wasn't funny, all these 20 years led to this, so I'm talking about the policy that has been implemented in the Republic of Croatia and there is 97% of the right HDZ that today the EU is the only possible solution for Croatia not to go to Honduras or become Greece, and we are very close to that. Croatian policies that have passed both conversion and privatisation, and never made a revision of conversion and privatisation, Croatian policies that have led to 315 thousand employees, Croatian policies that will reduce VAT instead of 23% to 25%, Croatian policies that will reduce, at least such announcements, reduce the labour price by 10%, Croatian policies of those in the past that have robbed and devastated Croatian citizens, the Croatian economy. Today, we really need to be politically responsible and say to dear citizens, dear Croatians and Croats, today we are no longer deciding on the fate of our own Croatia. Today, the European Union is our only possible solution because we have no other way out. The European Union is not only European funds from which Croatia will draw millions of euros, billions of euros. The European Union is also a commitment, not only from paying membership fees, not only from harmonising with the acquis but also from all other possible obligations. And today, the European Union is a straw of salvation for Croatia, and even for us poor Croatian politicians who have high salaries and even for those who have gone into the well-deserved pension these days just still sit here. The matter of the referendum is a matter of political responsibility. I hope and want one large majority of citizens to come out on Sunday 22 January and to really decide on Croatia's fate, but I don't believe it. I don't believe that this whole trip and negotiations and everything else was just for those comfortable Brussels chairs. And there's one reason the HDSSB asked for a postponement of this referendum. Not because we have been against the European Union but because there has been a broad debate in this Assembly since the beginning of the day or one afternoon in a half-empty assembly when representatives are hungry, thirsty, go to lunch. But also for this reason, for the procedure of leaving the European Union which is not at all simple. And citizens because they don't read, because they don't even have a newspaper today, so maybe their subscription has lifted their pensions and salaries, so I can't even watch TV. The procedure is the Lisbon Treaty for the first time norms and the issue of exiting the European Union. The European Union shall be free from negotiations with the Council with an agreement to vote in favour of a qualified majority but without a member coming out. So it's not true that we can get out in 2, 3, 5 or 10 years if we don't like it because they won't let us out until they take advantage of us. That's what the Lisbon Treaty says, Your Honor, I've been reading. I don't think my pages are yellow, but I'm using a little computer, too, but I've been reading it. If the agreement does not meet the contractual obligations of the former member, they shall cease for 2 years at the request of exit. As it all seems to be, you can't know because that's not what happened, but it can happen. But since I don't have time to read everything here about how painful it is to get out of the European Union and how much it can cost Croatia, I will recommend to Croatian citizens that they try to learn all about the European Union these two days because those advertisements for the European Union...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1634	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1635	A sentence. They're not enough. Because those commercials are, after all, the political marketing of individuals and political parties. For the end, I hope...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1636	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1637	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1638	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. Here is your debate, and it encouraged the minister to report for the word, as well as a colleague of Domagoj Hajdukovic's to report for the replica. We'll hear the replica first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Here's what's being offered by exposing my colleague, Vinkovic, I must say the following. Namely, discussions about the European Union do not last in the Croatian Parliament only today and do not last in Croatian society only today. The European Union and European orientation are, in fact, the ones whose foundations, among other things, have created a modern Croatian state. Although I belong to a younger generation, I remember very well the painful production of Croatian statehood, and I also remember that after each other's diary, our late singer said "flight Croatia be one of the Eurostars", let Croatia be one of the European stars. We are now on that path, which is being discussed for 20 years, and in addition, one of the reasons why we left the former state, so Yugoslavia was one of the European issues and that Yugoslavia's orientation was not pro-European. That is why I cannot allow it to be said that only today is being discussed. It is not debated today and as the Prime Minister said, so it is not just today and it is neither the last nor the first time that it will be discussed. They're gonna have a hell of a fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1640	Thank you. We'll hear the answer to the replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1641	What do you say? This is the first debate on the European Union here in the Parliament, the first information on the accession treaty. Today we are discussing an accession treaty, whether the debates on European laws were in this House, which I have neither claimed nor ever claimed that Yugoslavia had a European orientation, but I have read it. I don't remember these events, and I don't think it's '45. The year of any other possibility other than entering the then SFRY, 918 may have been. I don't want history to happen again. So, I did not call for citizens not to vote for the European Union, but I would like to warn that the European Union is not all that is nice that can happen to Croatian citizens. The European Union is one of the great commitments that I claim Croatia is not ready for today and I would not like to discuss for one 5 or 20 years in this Chamber, and my colleague Hajdukovic I will probably be, I do not believe that you will be to discuss what I said when this Parliament said that better than the Croatian-Hungarian settlement, there is no better than the Habsburg monarchy, there is no better than Austria-Hungarian, there is no better than the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, there is no better than the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. That's probably how the MPs discussed it, that's how. We here speak openly and point to possible problems that the European Union will bring to Croatia Thank you. [[Intruder Stazic: And there is nothing better than respecting time.]] I'm sure it won't be like that in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1642	The word has been given by the Honorable Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Dr. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1643	I thank Mr. Vice President and, of course, with all due respect to every MP, I must say that more debate has moved me to come forward, not just this last one. That's more or less settled. But it was said a whole series of things that I think might be directed to react to. One of them is whether the length of negotiations and the model of negotiations has made us ready? Yeah. He has made us much more ready and the best example is a partnership with Romania and Bulgaria that had shorter negotiations without preconditions, so those criteria for opening and closing and that caused the problem for them. Comparatively, they are in a worse situation today, regardless of which they are a member of the Union than we are in many segments that we are at the threshold and the length of the negotiations has indeed made it possible and I think it is a lesson for the future. Unfortunately, we did not have positive political messages and high criteria, but we often had negative political messages and high criteria. I think it can be said from our experience that positive political messages are always good and have a good effect, but at the same time it is important to stick to high practical criteria because it is the only way to encourage and help reforms. The majority of MPs mentioned whether we started to inform on 9.12 when the Accession Treaty was signed. Is this the first debate in the European Union's Parliament, whether we discussed in the European Union's Parliament. Well, of course we discussed it. Only in principle on the general state of negotiations and the European Union 16 times in the last four years, 300 times on laws in the last 4 years. So, an institution that really cannot complain that it did not discuss the European Union is the Croatian Parliament. This has been since the principle debates in the last four years, not in the last ten years since this went when they were probably closer to 50. But in the last four years, this is about the principles and accession of the European Union and the course of adaptation of the 17th debate in Parliament, and I don't even count on 300 laws that we have in the last four years which are laws of adaptation. So I'm putting that aside. Just a debate on the subject of the European Union and, in principle, Croatian membership and the elements of the characteristics of Croatian membership. Cohesion funds and potential use of funds were discussed. The fact is that the European Union and the funds that contribute to harmonising the levels of development of individual European regions and European countries. They don't have them from altruism. They don't have them because they're good hearts, so now they're gonna give someone money. They have them because it's historically shown that big differences in development eventually result in nasty conflicts. In the end, they also result in wars and that it is much smarter to prevent these huge differences in the degree of development in one common space, and Croatia is one common space, Europe is one wider common space and the world in this sense a common space. And it is these huge differences in the degree of development that produce both conflicts and wars in the world. And cohesion funds have this practical function. So they are not the result of a good heart, but an instrument of lasting peace and stability or an instrument of equating development to prevent conflicts. There were many remarks that there was not enough clear and unequivocal information. However, when clear and unequivocal information is said, and if it seems to be not quite the most favourable, it causes negative reactions. We humans must be fully aware of what we are getting into and what it is. We must be aware that membership in the European Union for Croatia is considered as a level of stability and security of investment space. That's a fact. We can be angry, we can think it's not fair, we can do whatever we want. But the fact is that it's being translated that way and it's going to translate. Therefore, we can decide that it is none of our business to ignore. It is, of course, our right and no one can force us to do anything else. But it's my opinion that maybe it's smart to consider that fact because if we ignore it, it's a very great opportunity to turn around and break into our heads. And so I agree with everyone who claims information and a clear view of the truth is important, it's really important even when it's not pleasant maybe especially when it's not pleasant absolutely important. And the short-term populationism won't get us out of the fact that we're going to have to deal with this situation now, in a year, in two years, whenever, but we're going to have to face that fact. It's said we have to go to Europe because we don't have a second chance. We do, we do. I mean, there's absolutely gonna be a country, and if we don't make up our mind, so if there's no decision in the referendum. It's just up there for us. For us, it's worse as a country, as a society, as an institution, as a national economy, it's worse for us. But that's how it can be decided, you can. And I don't think it should, in my opinion, be considered healthy for almost a matter already solved. It's not settled. They'll get rid of it in a referendum, so as people say Sunday, that's how it's gonna be. The only thing that this government, but also the largest opposition party, has managed its campaign has clearly positioned our position is that Croatia is better and has a better chance of success if it operates within this stabilisation framework called the EU. In part, one of the things that I am extremely proud of and I think that a good first step may also have in a strange way caused a certain suspicion in the public. And that is the fact that after Croatia's independence this EU membership is the first topic we have a political consensus on. So, around which the political parties are voted in the elections, more or less, but who are all represented here in Parliament that have passed the 5% threshold, so that the perception by citizens who have antipathies towards politics in general and politicians is then generally reflected in the attitude towards the EU because they see the whole policy and all politicians as if they are pushing for the EU, and then we are going to be against it. And that's why I would like to say here, more citizens than only respected MPs and MPs, that we will all pass, we will be there, we will not be, long after neither of us is in politics nor will anyone remember that we appeared here, the results of Sunday's decision will reflect on Croatian society. So, frankly, even if we're going to get on your nerves, don't let it guide you in your decision. In your decision you should be managed by the interest of Croatia as a stable state, your interest now, and then of course the interest of all future generations. As for going out and entering – the maximum period of 2 years is defined for the exit. We've been in for 10 years. So if it's as bad as it's not gonna be for anyone else, we're gonna hold on to those two.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1644	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1645	I'm correcting this 17 debate that was held here in the House, but this is the first serious debate, so here I am correcting myself. Another correction to the incorrect assumption is that citizens will decide on Sunday. I want and the intention is and this is a message to Croatian citizens to come out in as large a number as possible to make a referendum regardless of the law that has been changed for a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1646	Mr. Representative, that's not a correction to an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1647	And here's a sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1648	Finish it, but I'm begging you, I said we won't do it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1649	In order for the citizens to really decide on the fate of Croatia not political parties and individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1650	Thank you. The next word was reported by Mr. Representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1651	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, honourable ministers, respected MPs and MPs. ... I address you as a representative of 12 national minorities in Austria, Bulgaria, Germany, Poland, Roma, Romania, Georgian, Russian, Turkish, Ukrainian, Vlach and Jewish national minorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are facing an extremely important decision on Croatia's accession to the EU. Since I represent the interests of national minorities, I will say something about issues of particular interest to them, which concern 23. Chapters – the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia on EU accession, which also covers the fundamental rights of citizens. Issues concerning national minorities on the agenda are the EU, and they address minority issues through their legal framework and as part of the fund policy. It's another 1993. The EU has determined by establishing Copenhagen criteria that a country has the right to join the EU if it shows within the political criteria that it has established the protection of human and minority rights. These criteria also apply to Croatia. General European standards at 23. The chapter concerns strengthening independence, impartiality and professionalism in the judiciary, combating corruption and preserving high standards of protection of human rights and national minorities. In 2010, the European Union adopted a common position on Chapter 23 establishing 10 criteria for the temporary closure of this chapter, and the 7th criterion states that the Republic of Croatia should strengthen the protection of minorities including through the implementation of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities and take steps to ensure a visible improvement in the scope of the employment of national minorities in state administration bodies, local self-government bodies, police and justice. And while some chapters have been found not to expect significant difficulties in their alignment for 23. At the beginning of the negotiations, the chapter found that significant efforts should be made. In the temporary closure of this chapter in June 2011, it was said that Croatia has made particularly great progress in this area and that there is an additional increase in the level of overall protection of human rights and thus the rights of minorities. Although I believe that the questions concerning this chapter do not require work only for a certain period of time. Ambassador Vandoren also stressed the importance of the chapter by saying that it is a chapter of all chapters and how work on issues concerning justice and fundamental rights must be continued. Croatia has committed itself to continuing work on minority rights and will also monitor progress towards Croatia's accession in the harmonisation and application of the acquis in this negotiating chapter. In the EU Common Position of June 2011 in point 23. The chapters are data provided by Croatia on fundamental rights. The European Union also calls on Croatia to continue its work to improve the situation, human rights to a higher level. First, in terms of non-discrimination, then the rights of national minorities, cultural rights, and the lifting of measures against racism and xenophobia. As regards the prevention of discrimination on the one hand, the European Union takes note that Croatia is taking steps to strengthen the position of the Ombudsman's office in charge of the implementation of the Anti-discrimination Act, as well as a number of measures taken to improve the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. On the other hand, the European Union calls on Croatia to implement new mechanisms in the field of anti-discrimination and to continue to improve, implement the system to provide free legal assistance. As regards respect for the protection of minorities, the European Union notes that Croatia has adopted a measure to protect minorities. The Action Plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law of National Minorities and takes into account and adopts an Action Plan for the Employment of National Minorities in accordance with the Constitutional Act on National Minorities, which is a key objective of 5.5%. At the same time, the European Union calls on Croatia to take steps to further improve the protection of minorities particularly of the Roma national minority, and to improve the implementation of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, especially because of the lack of representation of minorities in the state administration, the judiciary and the police. To continue to take measures to ensure the effective work of the National Minority Council, including the autonomy of the Council on Funds. Furthermore, pay attention to the approach of members of minority social rights groups to continue the implementation of their strategy and action plan to protect Roma integration in terms of employment, education and housing and to ensure the availability of the necessary means to do so. The European Union also encourages Croatia to take measures to build trust among minority groups in the government's national minority policy by providing dialogue. On anti-racism and xenophobia measures, the European Union calls on Croatia to seek to implement measures to increase social tolerance and reconciliation between ethnic groups. Croatia should continue to take measures against racism and xenophobia including through education, change in roles, education and appropriate policy response. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude, we have seen what the European Union has learned about minority rights and what measures still need to be taken and I see in this an opportunity to realise what is expected of us in order to meet more standards that will benefit our citizens and society as a whole. The European Union has so far registered Croatia's ongoing efforts to improve the conditions for minorities but the problems remain with regard to the Roma national minority. In particular, continued work is needed on housing, employment, education, social protection and health care for the Roma national minority. I would also point out that when it comes to members of the Roma national minority, I see the area of education as the key to social transformation and their exit from an unfavourable position. I believe that as a parliamentary representative with your help and understanding, but with the active takeover of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I will contribute to a better understanding and resolution of these issues. The legal framework for the protection of minorities is good and, at the establishment of a mechanism for its implementation, work has been done rarely and under the pressure of the European Union, but the question of how much human and minority rights will be damaged in practice. Especially if Croatia is not in the European Union. We have the opportunity to continue to improve the position of national minorities in Croatia and, in our social presence, to create creative potential, because of the standards set by the European Union in front of Croatia on the protection of national minorities, but also for the general sake of all citizens, we support Croatia's entry into the European Union as much as I call for members of all national minorities and all citizens in a referendum on Sunday's terms for Croatia's entry into the European Union. It is up to all of us to ensure and prove that Croatia is ready to show its people a socially just state in which equality is guaranteed for members of national minorities in whom they will freely... and participate in quality in all areas of life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1652	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Next is Mr. Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1653	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, we are entering this debate today in the very finale of this time of Croatia's approach to the European Union, we are also entering the finale of this big project, a campaign that is trying to bring Croatian citizens closer to what, for them, for their lives, brings Croatia's full membership in the European Union to their standard. It is difficult to find new arguments for or against Croatia's entry into the European Union today so that I will not talk about chapters, standards, legal gains in my presentation. I think today's presentation should answer the question whether on Sunday we Croatian citizens, citizens, will confirm our membership to the Western civilization circle, whether we will confirm the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the Euro-Atlantic area for which all of us sitting here are convinced that Croatia belongs. The alternative is clear, let's not fool ourselves that Croatia can be Switzerland, that it can be Norway, because we have neither oil sources nor we have a few centuries long banking system and tradition, Croatia will, if it does not say that entering the European Union remains part of that space that we left in the early 1990s. And that is why it is extremely important to ask the question in such a way, not to talk about the acquis, not to talk about whether or not taxes will be like this, not to answer questions that are variable, because the legal system of the European Union is changing, it is subject to change especially today in times of crisis. We today need to answer one key question whether we believe that Croatia belongs to its past, according to its culture, according to its tradition, according to its values whether Croatia belongs to the European Union. And I believe that all rational arguments, political, economic, sociological, culturally speaking in favour of Croatia becoming a member of the European Union. I believe that all parameters, both financial, environmental, educational, infrastructure, speak in favour of Croatia becoming a member of the European Union. Because no matter what the European Union is in crisis, which is going through a difficult period and today, the average citizen of the European Union lives, if all parameters are considered probably the best in the world. And that's why I think it's useful and good for us to go into that integration. And it would seem natural that the vast majority of Croatian citizens will say for this reason that we will celebrate together on Sunday what will happen 1.7.2013. full legal membership in the EU. But I believe you're just like me asking a question and then what are you worried about? Why, then, the atmosphere that does not fully suit us all to hope for, we look forward to the challenges that EU membership brings us? What are those reasons? What led to here in this finale being led by one I dare say, and a dramatic debate whether it is good or not to be in full EU membership? I was able to define two reasons that led to such an atmosphere to such an atmosphere. In my view, the first reason is fear of the unknown, the fear of being brought to us by EU membership. People have never lived in this kind of integration. The Croatian people were part of major state formations, but never by decision as this decision will now be in the referendum Sunday. We could never decide for ourselves when and what state integration we will live in. And this is the opportunity, and it's likely that some of the citizens feel it as a burden, feel it as a commitment and worry about whether they decide well. Is it good to go into something that's unknown and new? And it's a natural reaction. But without the willingness to challenge as one of our colleagues said, without the willingness to jump in the water and swim, we cannot say and decide and assess whether it will be good and useful for us. And all the arguments as I said, all the rational arguments are in favour of the fact that for Croatia and Croatian citizens, it is good and positive to be a full member of the EU. The second reason I think it affected this atmosphere is that it is a certain mistrust and revolt against the parties' politics, according to the institutions of the Croatian state. And there you are, all of us, and we have to ask the question of how much are we responsible for what's going on today? How responsible are the media? How responsible is the university, the school? What do our young people show to be markedly skeptical about EU membership? How much political work and our political action have led people to suspect that what we are doing is good for them? And we need in these last meters in these last days that EU membership is not a political elite project that is a project of the entire Croatian society of all citizens and all citizens. That not possibly saying some of our citizens and citizens will not punish HDZ, SDP and all other parties. That he would punish himself and the generations to come. So, in these last few days, I think we need to pass on responsibility but also understanding that the EU project is a project for all people, all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not just political structures. Finally, I would like to say that the EU is something that has been a challenge for other countries that have entered full membership in the last and last waves. And none of those countries want to go out today. If we look at the figures and the figures are something that is ultimately relevant to everyone's standard of living, everyone has grown gross social product, everyone has increased employment, everyone has increased wages. I don't see why Croatia would be any different. Why do we go with the thesis of some of our colleagues here who said we were bad, that if we feel bad in the EU it will be the same because we are so bad that we will be bad there too. So let's stop talking about ourselves in the worst possible way. We've had failures in the last 20 years since we had our own country. But which people didn't have problems in their development. We've been through war, we've been through porn, rebuilding, we've done a lot of good, there's been mistakes. But after 20 years of Croatian statehood with our strength, our tenacity, our work, our knowledge has reached a level that we can be a full member of the EU. Let's not spoil it now in these last few days. And for that reason I will personally, and I believe all of you who are here together with the vast majority of Croatian citizens, Croatians, Croats and Croats, say that for Croatia's entry into the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1654	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jandrokovic said it is near the end, but since there are four replicas, you will certainly be replicating yourself. The first one was answered by Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1655	Well, I've just picked up a line so Mr. Jandrokovic can answer me. Now, right from the beginning, there have been no mistakes here in the last 20 years, there have been robberies and crime and black funds, and I don't know what not. But what surprises me most is that you said that Croatia cannot be Switzerland. Indeed, it cannot be called Switzerland, but with these people with this wealth that Croatia has, though slightly smaller now, could be much better than Switzerland, I think, economically. And today, Mr. Jandrokovic, we must openly tell the citizens and even apologize to them for putting them in a position where there is no other solution. The only solution is the EU. And we need to send a clear message to the citizens. Croatia's policy has led to the only possible solution. For the very end, it is not fear of the unknown, but fear of those who have led these negotiations both from the effects of these negotiations and from this treaty that is before us. It is not as easy to come out of the EU as it is to go out in the same way, perhaps worse than it has entered. Here's the former Minister of European Integration because I don't want to ask these new ones questions yet, here's the question. On what basis is this EU flag here? Based on the oral order of the captain with a little vitre. The Office for Public Relations not in 2004, not in 2003, but on 13 July 2011. Well, it probably speaks enough of our seriousness and the way we conducted those negotiations. Here's a flag that doesn't even define the EU flag. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1656	Thank you. I'm sorry, you've already spoken about the flag twice, I hope you won't go the third time in the way you've spoken. Okay. Here you are, Mr. Representative Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1657	I thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, the issue of the flag is not a question for a representative, it is a question for the council's leadership. But I don't mind the flag. I don't know why that flag bothers you, it symbolizes the unity of European countries, symbolizes progress, prosperity and I believe that the Croatian star will proudly also be on that flag. As far as Switzerland is concerned, if Croatia were as rich as Switzerland, if Croatia were geographically positioned as Switzerland, that Croatia had relations with other European Union countries, as Switzerland has, maybe I would say, so we do not have to enter the European Union, we are fine as well. But even such Switzerland today is considering deepening its relations with the European Union because in today's globalised world no one can be alone. Europe is united and Europe is what it is to respond to the challenges of new growing forces such as China, India, Brazil, America that is standardly large and strong. Today, the European Union is not a wish but a necessity. And why should we, I repeat, as a small, medium-sized people when we compete with those who are already in the European Union, why should we fear that integration. Well, we're good at both sports and science, and our innovators are great, we have great entrepreneurs. Why should we in the European Union be losers? That mentality costs us dearly and let's stop at least in this House developing a sense of loss, accusing ourselves. We must become winners if we want to be successful in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1658	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1659	This Regulation shall enter into force on the I'm even the former foreign minister and offended, so I'd like you to give him one warning. Since I don't mind the flag, I wasn't talking about the beauty of the flag, but about Croatia having no choice where and in what way, where the European Union flag is placed or when listening to Beethoven's 9th Symphony known as "The Ode of Joy". And I asked you this not as a representative, and now a representative, as former foreign minister, and if you don't know about it in this document, the response of the Public Relations Office to the Project Association, where it is responsible that the flag is not only here in the Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1660	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1661	Not at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also at your former ministry, it was based on Eva Sanader's oral order. That's what this is about, Mr. Jandrokovic, former minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1662	Mr. Representative, you've given no argument to the violation of Rules of Procedure and Article 209, 214. ... I'm just saying you didn't make any arguments. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've given you an answer, but I'm asking you nicely to avoid doing it because it doesn't lead to good relations within this assembly. That's all I'm asking. In the next line, MP Boro Grubisic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1663	Thank you very much. Mr. Jandrokovic, you've replaced the thesis. You are talking about Croatia being poor to energy. You need to know that Croatia from its sources, primarily from Djeletovac, is supplied with its oil at 40%, gas even more than 40%. Furthermore, you said that Switzerland and Croatia cannot be compared. Well, look, if Switzerland had the sea, if Switzerland had Slavonia, that Switzerland had these very sources of oil like we have in Djeletovci and in Podravina gas, then it would ask Europe since it is Europe. Furthermore, you say that here we express our mistrust with the institutions of the Croatian state that have brought the negotiations to an end and concluded the agreement. What is there to speak of? Which is why mistrust when we know about the sale of banks, when we know about INA sales, when we know about Pliva sales, when we know about a lot of things, and they know about citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1664	Thank you. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1665	I did not say that Croatia is poor to energy, although Croatia does not cover its needs with domestic production and more than 50% must be imported. In contrast to us, Norway is a country that lives on oil, which is the richest world state, which exports oil, which has huge oil supplies, but even such a rich, strong, internationally well-recognized and affirmed has brought its legislation into line with EU legislation and is one of the largest contributors to European Union funds without withdrawing those funds from the European Union. Why does he do that, so because it's useful and because it's in her interest, and it doesn't come and you'll never hear the Norwegian say so we're this, we're what, we're gonna feed that Europe. He's aware of his qualities, he's aware of his strength, but he won't brag stupidly about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1666	Mr. Representative Grubisic, I'll tell you right away. Now you're raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, too, but I'll interrupt you if you go wrong. I'm asking you nicely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1667	Infringement of Mr Jandrokovic's Rules of Procedure under Article 209
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1668	Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1669	Because Mr. Jandrokovic is talking about Norway, which I have not said a word about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1670	But look, Mr. Representative Grubisic, look... No, no, please. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] When it comes to the replica, you can say whatever you want. ... Indeed, compared to what was said the answer to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But the breach of the Rules of Procedure must be very precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1671	That's right, I was.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1672	Don't be angry, please. Thank you. Replica, representative of Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1673	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Jandrokovic, it was almost incredible for me to listen to you say that here in the Croatian Parliament we should not talk about issues such as taxes, and that was something I mentioned in my debate. Is that true, and it says in your ministry's document, you were recently the minister of the ministry, the ambassador from Brussels wrote this and the first secretary, to think in Brussels about introducing new taxes as a source of the European Union budget's own revenue. Do you even know about that, Mr. Jandrokovic? I wouldn't be surprised if you didn't know. The possibility of a European Union VAT is also mentioned. That's what it says in that document. You may not be interested in this because the VAT of 23 or 25% to you or to you may not mean anything, but to many Croatian citizens it certainly means, and even more is it going to get another VAT. We're just looking for an answer to that question. If that's not true, there's no problem. And you said something else. The laws of the European Union are variable. Yes, and precisely because they are variable, we are concerned about the way the future Croatian Parliament plays the role of the influence that this law will look like. I was talking about that we will only have two months of time to declare whether it is in the interest of Croatia or not, given its observations. But they will only be considered if observations are made by at least one third of the Member States. Therefore, we can put ourselves on the head if we are alone against something we consider to be contrary to the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It's described in protocol number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1674	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Mr. Representative Jandrokovic's reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1675	So I didn't say I shouldn't talk about taxes. Of course we need to talk because it is in the interest of Croatian citizens and their living standards. But I said that the decision on whether or not Croatia will be a member of the European Union is not based on the tax that it is a civil response to one challenge. But of course we will discuss taxes and take care of how Croatia will position itself in these games because we will be a member. We will discuss this together with all other countries and analyze and look for what is good for Croatia, which is less good. But it is not our problem that VAT may one day be brought by the European Union. So our problem is that VAT is announced from the ruling majority's ranks that from 23, it's going to go to 25 and that doesn't bother you, and that's probably going to be tomorrow. And as for the funds that we will be providing in the European Union, so why didn't you mention the potential of 10 billion kunas that we will withdraw from the European funds? So, no matter how much we give in the European Union, we will significantly withdraw more from there, and that doesn't bother you either. It is normal for you to have Slavonic, for you, for your county to withdraw funds from the European Union and you consider it normal for someone to give you. Well, it's not normal. Well, it's not normal for someone to give you something. That's what we have to fight for.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1676	Thank you. And a replica of the last Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1677	Dear President, it is clear here that we all agree that Croatia is a place in the European Union and certainly there is no dramatic debate on whether it is good to be in the European Union or not. That's what I haven't heard from any MPs today. The only problem is that the way it enters the European Union, the only problem is that you want to suggest to us that everything that has been done so far has been well done, that everything that awaits us is honey and milk. Apologetics and populism are brothers. Someone mentioned it, it seems to me that the minister is a populist, and I'm talking about apologetics. It's embarrassing how videos were made on HRT. Instead of communicating with citizens from heights, it's apologetic towards citizens. The only thing is, so we are talking about it Eurosceptics are not against Croatia's entry into the European Union. Skepticism not to go into detail, you know what skepticism is. Therefore, we all agree here that Croatia should join the European Union. We asked our representative club to postpone the referendum for three weeks. You said what can be found out in three weeks? Public service TV can be held every night on Croatian television and citizens can find out what it is. No, they give five minutes, five seconds or fifteen seconds to advertise politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1678	Thank you very much. Replication response, please. I almost said it was in my language, but what starts with m before. Mr. Representative, go ahead. Because the minister will now answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1679	Thank you, Mr. President. I called you exactly. Nothing, I agree that we all want to join the European Union and that's very good. Is the technique at all times the best at it, whether the campaign is the best, so probably not. It can probably be done better. And I asked myself a question when I saw some of the ministers directly speaking to the camera whether they were just ideal people, ideal messengers of messages, and whether perhaps some of those who would vote for the European Union could vote. Maybe that's why they'll give up the vote. But I wouldn't get into it right now. There were other types of videos where we tried to interpret all those questions that citizens asked us through the HaloEU phone what they were interested in, so it wasn't good either. Well, it's not good what the European Commission is doing. Well, it means everything you offer from institutions is never good. But be assured, all the materials are available to you. And the summary and medium-sized summary and everything that's been negotiated is on the Internet. Anyone who wishes to be informed can be informed. But let's not always look for the guilty one in another. Let us not always charge others with responsibility for what is sometimes our own responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1680	Thank you very much. Foreign and European Affairs Minister Mrs Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1681	Thank you, Mr. President. A few things. Mr Buric mentioned several times that there was a debate in the European Parliament and in the European institutions on the possibility of introducing an additional value tax at the level of the entire European Union. That's true. As different things are discussed in the European Parliament, including the European Parliament's disbandation and the European Union's arrival. Therefore, there are representatives in the European Parliament who propose to abolish and consider it the worst idea at all that the European Union exists and propose that it be removed, abolished. There's also a series of ideas that some of them don't live up to. Perhaps one day it will really come to the end of the European Union. I hope that it will not be given the fact that so far it has been quite effective in keeping peace between European countries, and that has not otherwise lasted that peace in history. But the truth is that there are also discussions about such things and many things that seem to us today either unacceptable or contrary to our interests, and it will likely seem tomorrow when we sit there a lot of things that are unacceptable from our position. But obviously we're not the only ones who have interests and the only ones who understand what is or is not in our interests. And a whole series of other countries have the same attitude, understand. They also have their national parliaments, their national interests and because, as you have seen in that contract where the two years to come are defined, but at the same time also those provisions defining the procedure that national parliaments can object to certain legislation, so there is also mentioned not even whether something is in the country's interest but simply being objected because the principle of subsidiarity is not respected. And that principle of subsidiarity, let's just say you can disagree with what the Finns think about some topic, but you'll always agree on whether or not to respect the principle of subsidiarity, because both the Finns and I don't know the Irish and everyone else will be very careful whether their right to decide in their Parliament any way they want, but not to make them a hat of someone who is above their Parliament. And I think it is very important to bear in mind that what all parliaments agree on is the principle of subsidiarity, which means that at national level all decisions that can be made at national level are made, and only those that cannot be taken at national level are made at a higher level. It's the principle of subsidiarity. That is why there is no particular interest here but only the principle of subsidiarity as the basis for the complaint. The laws to be passed, Croatia will participate in the formulation of legislative proposals through the Council of Ministers and through the European Council and through the European Parliament and where you are prepared and have stronger interests you and here as well as elsewhere can convince your colleagues of your views, but there will be no rules in the European Parliament alone, even more so, the objection that the European Parliament decides on too little, and that too much is decided by the European Council and the Council of Ministers. So, bodies where each state has one representative. Finally apologetics or singing as said here. As for the people who ran for the election of the parties who ran for the elections and presented their programme, I think it would be extremely inconclusive, unfairly political fraud to choose you on one programme, and that you later advocate another program and pretend that you have nothing to do with it. Before, later, during the elections, we claimed that we stand clearly in Croatia's European future and perspective, and after the elections we will not advocate another political position. It's our political position and if we didn't have it, we wouldn't have advocated it before or during or after the election. I have not heard any apologetics in this House, even though perhaps little and little since of 151 MPs 128 has undoubtedly been elected to the European project, perhaps more. But undoubtedly 128 chosen on the European project. Therefore, there was no one here who did not say that the EU will solve for us anything that we are not able to solve for ourselves, that it will only make our circumstances somewhat easier for us and that this is the choice we are making. No one said beyond that anything that would be irrational or unobstructive or in any way detached from this fundamental position that it's just circumstances that make it easier for us if we know, if we're able and if we have the creativity to solve our situation and get out of the crisis. And there was finally a debate here and a referendum to be postponed in three and six months. From the point of view of further information, that makes some sense, in my opinion. That would make some sense, it doesn't make sense from the point of view of time for ratification. So, time to confirm in the parliaments of the member states our Accession Treaty because it would take us extra time and from the point of view of the fact that we have been having these discussions for 10 years. But I see an argument when it would extend by 3 to 6 months or a year could be significantly more and further debated. In 2 or 3 weeks every night, every day is in these 40 days, 35 days of debate on all Croatian media on the subject of the EU. More or less on the one hand, people who are against, on the other hand, people who advocate it. All the time, if you look at it, these discussions are spinning in the same circle. It's good to see, in my opinion, it's informative to see, but these discussions that would be extended by two or three weeks wouldn't make any difference. In three months, six months we could, but then we should count on what the benefits are, which are the disadvantages of it. This would just be the exact same thing that everybody already knows, and in these 35 days two more weeks are repeated. This position must be clear, in my opinion, either clean on the one hand or clean on the other. This thing between me seems to be falling between two chairs and losing the advantage of either one, and it doesn't get the benefits of another model.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1682	Thank you very much, Minister Pusic. We have 3 corrections of an incorrect quote. First of all, Mr. Dinko Buric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1683	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, most of what you just said is true. I would only correct an incorrect allegation, and it concerns the very application of the principle of subsidiarity when you said that we should not be interested in what happened in Finland in Croatia. No, exactly the opposite. It is precisely the objective of the principle of subsidiarity to come in a position to make decisions as close as possible to the citizens. Whether it's local, regional, national or... But we are also talking about Protocol 2 of the Lisbon Treaty defining that our remark if we decide that something is the opposite, that it would be better if we regulate our legislation, and not from the European level, will prevent us from adopting it if our proposal does not support at least 9 other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You understand? So why would Finland support us? You understand? Either Poland or some request in which we say we think we'd better settle it by law I don't know about local or regional self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1684	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1685	So the correction of an indication where the Kukuriku coalition's political programme doesn't change after the election, and I say it changes. This is an increase in VAT to 25%, an announcement of a decrease in labour prices to 10%, right on the threshold of entry into the European Union. On the other hand, and I won't answer again, I'm going to quote only Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, who said we don't go in the fog like geese, but as an airbus in the fog, but the fog is fog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1686	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1687	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that three weeks is not enough to hold a debate and explain something more to the citizens. It's enough if the debate is systematically organised and it's not at the level of Infantile Spots as they've been spinning on our television but serious debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1688	Thank you very much. We do, the videos depend on who directs them, so it's not that simple. But here we go further into the debate. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1689	Thank you, Mr. President, so I'm afraid it's really hard to find the arguments for and I'm looking for those arguments that are against, are really poorly explained, unfounded that I just don't think about this option not to enter the European Union because it really is all in favour of Croatia being in this community of European countries which, in any case, represent the most powerful economy in the world, the strongest economy in the world is the economy of the European Union. Very often, statistics are avoided taking into account exactly the overall European Union when it comes to statistics in the economy, so it is pointed out that Germany has the largest exports in the world, has more exports even than China, which is incomparably bigger when we talk about the number of inhabitants, and from the United States, so from many other countries that have economic power and have a strong economic impact on the development not only of course within themselves but also in the whole world and now that we single out only one of those 27 countries shows that it has the strongest export economy in the world. Not adding up other economies, not adding them all together into one united economy, that is, the economy of the European Union. So this is just one area that is very important today, which is very much spoken of today, not only in Croatia, but in the whole world, so economic development, prosperity, so only when we single out that one detail then speaks clearly enough of what kind of community we enter, among which countries we enter. Not to mention other essential values, because we will indeed, on Sunday, Croatian citizens will be determined whether their adherence is indeed to the European values that we have accepted by our Constitution and which are in the foundations of the free Croatian state, whether we are truly attached to the foundations of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, the rights of national minorities, the rights of all who come from our fundamental law or the Constitution. So that's what this is about, whether we will be attached to all those values that are based on Croatia's independence and the basis of Croatia's state. Of course, it personally seems to me that this debate today will hardly contribute to encouraging many of our fellow citizens to come out 22 and be in favour, because it seems to me that there have been enough debate in those who have tried to base their entire debate on explaining that we really shouldn't be there, but ultimately they say that we are not Eurosceptics, we are not against, we are still pro-Europeanally committed but, well, it seems to me that this is bad. There have been so many debates in this House, I think it is truly humiliating for this House. I agree with my former colleague today, Ms Pusic, because we participated together in the work of the National Committee, and I think there has been a great deal of debate not only at the plenary session but also at the national committee where the club representatives were, of course, representatives of the parties participating in the work of the Croatian Parliament and where it was not possible without the general agreement and opposition representatives who participated in the work of the National Committee and the rulings, it was not possible to reach any decision on what Croatia has to do with a particular negotiating position, without the general agreement in the Croatian Parliament and what the Government has proposed was not possible to reach an agreement in the negotiations. So I'd rather say it's about the old man who knocks, it'll open up to him. So whoever wanted to know and wanted to know he could really knock on the door and that door was always open. The one who did not and who did not care, of course, that he now has a lack of information and that perhaps he lacks some information that he can get today and which he can get by January 22nd, and I agree that delaying the referendum by three weeks or five months I don't really think anything new would bring, no new arguments, I think it would be more important at this point to propose to those who are in the media space to invite more people who are really addressed to all chapters, where they can answer every question of every citizen, I think that they are simply those people who have led the negotiations and that people who know the least detail of the negotiations and we don't need to suspect that these people have done a very professional and quality job. All that is available to Croatian citizens I think it will be enough for them to decide on Croatia's entry into the European Union. I would like to say that the most important thing to believe in myself is that I deeply believe in the common sense of Croatian citizens in front of this referendum, because by thinking clearly, I think that Croatia will in most cases decide that it is Croatia's place in the EU. When we return to some times in the totalitarian regime, then it should be said that many may be motivated by the vote for the EU and the fact that the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, the EU in general condemned the evil of the 20th century totalitarian regimes between them and communism. As a society in general, we didn't condemn everything that was bad in that totalitarian regime. I am sure that this fact of condemnation and Nazism and fascism and communism and putting into the same level is about crimes against humanity that it will certainly encourage some people to be another additional argument to them why it is in this community of people, because it is about values and value systems, it is about that it is about a community of countries that will respect exactly and these facts and help us in Croatia to overcome some of the things in the past and find the right way to put things in place. And that, of course, is the advantage of joining the EU. Of course, when we talk about the fact that the EU is the strongest economy, then an opportunity is automatically opened for the entire Croatian society by integrating into such a single community. Of course, to see a chance for our economy as a whole. Of course everything was said about the smooth movement of goods, services, workers, etc. So the freedom of movement of people together will contribute to each other's atmosphere in Croatia and, of course, these opportunities will certainly be used by all of us. It's our chance. As far as we ourselves are capable, we will be able to prove this to the EU, but without the EU, we need to prove ourselves how capable we are within Croatia. No one's going to work for us, no one's going to do our jobs. We ourselves have to do it the best possible way. We need to have a better education system, we need to have it, it's perfectly safe, we need to have a more regulated rule of law and everything we've done so far in the negotiations has shown that we can really achieve the highest standards and that in some of these things we are even preceding EU members. And that's what we've been talking about. And, of course, at the end of the negotiation process, we received congratulations. That was not so long ago, so in June of last year 2011. A little over 6 months ago, we received congratulations for Croatia's progress and for the reforms we made during the negotiations. And I really have to tell you here as a member of the HDZ, which carried the greatest burden of negotiations as the ruling party in six years, in almost six years of negotiations, and I don't think there's any doubt that everything was made for Croatia to be ready and ready to join the European peoples' community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1690	Thank you, Mr. Representative. We have a replica of your exposure by Agent Dinka Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1691	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Matušić, look, I will not correct the incorrect allegations because our entire debate today should be to exchange views to get as close to our citizens as possible to make a decision. If someone asks questions about something, it doesn't mean they're against it, I think it's clear to everyone. It is a matter of responsibility both in front of your own conscience and responsibility for the conduct of our duties, because in each and every one of you, don't forget Mr Matušić, there are voters and members and even supporters of members who are for and against the EU. We're aware of that. Everyone and every political party should be aware of that. Our desire is to motivate the debate to come out and those who are in favor and those who are against and those who are indecisive. And it's better for me to wish, I wish we had 50.01% on Sunday or against, it's going to be the will of Croatian citizens on the way out of 60, 70, or God give us even more than we have against 49.99. It's better than 50.01 than 80% for or against 20 at an output of 20 to 30%. It's a matter of decision legitimacy. And so to say that we are pro-European-oriented but that we are deeply aware that we have in our own ranks in our own families, we will not all vote equally. And they are for and who are against and that we have the right to ask questions and debts, it is not the right, but it is also the obligation to ask questions that impose on those who have read or read anything about it or have not read or had no opportunity to obtain information.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1692	Thank you, counsel. Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1693	Thank you, Mr. President. The interrogation is certainly useful. What I wanted to say to everyone who wanted to know about anything that was being negotiated could have been found out, they could have asked, they could have knocked on the door, that door was always open. And it was clear exactly how certain questions were resolved when they were solved. Why were the negotiations in secret? They weren't secret because we were supposed to keep something secret, because that's just the way the negotiation process is. Because if you are negotiating with someone if you want to achieve the best possible conditions in these negotiations, of course you will, first of all, inside your house, and we have done this neatly and truly respecting and respecting everyone in the Croatian Parliament and the Government has indeed respected society as a whole. Well, over 2,000 people have been negotiating. It wasn't just the ministers that were negotiating. Over 2,000 experts have been negotiating in all areas that best covered these areas. So everyone wanted to know and who wants to know today and today you can type on the Internet, you can also get summary, you can enter deeper into any area that has been negotiated so in all 35 chapters and find out everything you want to know. That's the most important thing. So, I agree, questioning is okay and there's no one against asking a question but it's important to say that the answers could be heard and that they could be heard and that those who want to know that they can find out. What's most important is that we did a good job in the negotiations that we negotiated within the framework and compared ourselves with others who had entered before us even something more favourable than the others before us. So that we were able to do this and that we did what was really best for Croatia. Of course we couldn't get something that nobody could get before us, it's a clear thing, but in the frames that we had done, we certainly did a great job. That's what this is about. And we prepared Croatian society in the best possible way because we had the hardest negotiations. The hardest negotiations we've had.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1694	Thank you very much. Next in line for the debate is Mr. Representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1695	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear foreign and European ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today's debate is indeed an opportunity to draw closer to the Croatian public again why today, 3 to 4 days before the referendum, we have essentially been through this whole time for the past two decades. It is also a capital, fateful political issue for this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, but also for the future and development of Croatia. My position is quite clear, with enthusiasm, with confidence and confidence in all Croatian citizens that the European Union is a great opportunity and a positive framework for the development of Croatia and for the benefit of all its citizens. There's something personal about it. In fact, I spent 18 years of my professional life mostly dealing with the very file of the relationship between Croatia and the European Union. I think I know the genealogy and those years when we weren't happy, when we weren't satisfied how the European Community then reacted to aggression on Croatia, how it had weak mechanisms for reacting at that time and, of course, as a large majority of Croatian citizens, I remember those moments. But I also remember from that period the moments of enthusiasm that we remembered here a few days ago when it was the 20th anniversary of international recognition. All this is a connected road, all of these are related events in the 20-year international subjectivity of the Republic of Croatia. When we look at what we've accomplished, I'll try to look at it with three of my roles. One is the role of a lawyer. As a lawyer, I would say that not only in the last 10 years have we passed 552 laws related to the acquis, we passed over 1400 sublegal acts, translated the entire primary legislation. The verification of the translation of the entire secondary legislation of the European Union is under way, so those legal acts that have been passed over the past 60 years by the institutions of the European Union, and there are 107 thousand pages in total and that is the unwritten chapter 36, which is practically the greatest translation venture in Croatia at all. We, as you know, changed the Croatian Constitution at the time of June 2010. Today, the Croatian Constitution has a Chapter VIII, which is called the European Union, which speaks of the legal basis for membership and the transfer of constitutional powers on participation in the institutions of the European Union, on the law of the European Union, on the right of citizens of the European Union. It is a clear signal that Croatia has made all the necessary legal assumptions to be ready to accept the acquis. The European Union is a community of rights and that is something we must always keep in mind. It guarantees greater legal certainty, a better rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. That's what we want, that's what we've been trying to improve for the past 20 years. All reforms of the Croatian judiciary have just been going in this direction and it is therefore good that in this chapter, Chapter 23 has been given so much attention, so much activity and so much supervision. In addition, we will have to work on it during this period after the referendum and until the entry into force of the Accession Treaty. As a diplomat, I'd say it was really not easy this time. He may have been anything but unfair, but he was demanding, he was such that he made Croatia a better, more skilled and land that she knew in perhaps ungrateful circumstances to negotiate her membership to the end. In the past few years, the Union has undergone several crises, a major institutional crisis. I was the deputy ambassador to France in 2005 when 15 million Frenchmen said no to the constitutional treaty. Something happened that, for example, on the side of the political spectrum, strange coalitions of the far left and far right formed. Several dissidents from key political parties took advantage of the occasion, created an atmosphere that was more of a voice on the context, not a voice on the text. And it is this French referendum that is one great nature, one great lesson for all the members of the European Union that organises a referendum to be careful how they approach it, to be aware of everything the referendum carries because the referendum is not just a chance for citizens to express their views on the issue. It's a chance to express their mood at that moment. I am convinced that the vast majority of Croatian citizens, as counterpart Matušić said, are soundly convinced that Croatia's future in the European Union is good, that it is something that ensures prosperity and that common sense should be voiced on Sunday. This is what is important and what is important and what will ultimately only be relevant. In diplomatic terms, we held negotiations according to a new methodology, according to a methodology adopted formally in 2004, slightly modified in 2006 in the new Consensus on Enlargement. The new Enlargement Consensus had three important points. He had a first and a leading point, and that's what we're introducing and the criteria for opening chapters, and that wasn't before. The second point that was important, we introduce a criterion or return one of the Copenhagen criteria of '93, the absorption capacity of the Union to accept new members. And third, most importantly, we'll never promise anyone the dates of membership in advance. Why did they say that, they said that because Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Presidents Mitterand and Chancellor Kohl promised 2000. They didn't realize it because the circumstances weren't realized. You should take care of that. With such a context, we managed to negotiate it ourselves, without any packages, membership at a time when we set out together with Turkey on whose final fate it will be a member or not, there is no consensus today in the European Union. When the Union looked at us as a country followed by other countries in Southeast Europe that are not necessarily neither now so ready nor the overall atmosphere in the Union may be in a hurry with new enlargement. These are the circumstances in which Croatia and Croatian negotiators conducted negotiations. Speaking as a politician, I am aware of the very delicate circumstances of today's Europe. Our referendum couldn't have fallen at a more complex moment. The Union has a debt crisis problem in several euro area countries, has a credibility problem, has one trend in the renationalisation of European policies. When we listen to Mr Barroso, when we listen to Mr Buzek, when you listen to the key leaders of European countries, they talk about restoring confidence in the European project and the key principle that we must take into account, which is the principle of solidarity. Solidarity was there when the European Coal and Steel Community was created, solidarity was there when the common agricultural policy was created, solidarity is present when regional policy is implemented and solidarity is now there when it is necessary to give hand to those countries that are in difficulty in terms of financial stability. These are the key frameworks in which Europe is located today. However, all efforts also to strengthen the European Stabilisation Mechanism and for the fiscal compact are heading precisely towards transnational control of behaviour at national level in terms of budgetary discipline being such as to prevent new crises. When it comes to the question we've talked a lot about here, the matter of information, the issue of debate, the question of whether there was enough information. Well, I've been very often representing the views of the former government in this House myself. There was an argument. The information's all there. Whoever wants the information has it. We organized numerous forums, numerous conferences, numerous round tables. I think we should continue the information process. He won't finish with January 22nd. On the contrary, it is just beginning and the real engagement of Croatia as an active observer and in the future as members is just ahead of us, and the role of the Croatian Assembly in the control and implementation and supervision and the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality is only up to us to exploit and then show that we, as an institution, are also ready to be a quality 28 member of the Union. I'm closing up. I hope on Sunday night we'll all welcome together the successful outcome of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1696	Thank you, too. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go. It was a replica before, I'm sorry. Excuse me. Mr. Dinko Buric, replic representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1697	Yes, thank you. I thought he was a fellow replica. I just wanted two things. Look, when you mentioned the failure of a referendum in France around the Constitution, I think the Netherlands was at the same time a failed referendum. So it is very questionable now whether it is a good thing that a decision has been made behind this to make the Constitution of the European Union, to decide it without the direct will of the citizens of the European Union themselves. 'Cause that's what happened after the French referendum failed. That's how the Lisbon Treaty came into being. You know, I'm not really sure that's the most democratic possible way. But something else is important. And now you've mentioned the state budget and control, so supranational control. That's right. In Article 126, I think that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is written that we cannot adopt a budget of any national parliament without the approval of Bruxella. About this, we should also get to know the representatives, not only of Croatian citizens, but also of us who will get into the European Union as soon as we get into the position that we will not only have to agree within clubs what we can put into the budget, but we will have to get the green light from somewhere else. You can't say that's not an important question. This is an important issue, not to mention the already mentioned six measures of September 2011 which are not made out of five regulations and one directive. It mainly applies in 4 regulatory countries that are in the euro zone. However, two relate to all the members of the European Union between them and that budget. These are therefore topics to be discussed. These are topics that we need to talk about and which should make it easier for us who are in the Croatian Parliament to decide but also for more to all Croatian citizens how to define ourselves. I don't think it's just the way we're going to be 150, it's not the most important that 150 and one parliamentary MP vote, but that Croatian citizens will vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1698	Thank you. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1699	Thank you, dear colleague Buric. Of course, France was May 29th, the Netherlands was June 4th. I remember these days very well, and I remember very well what I wrote about these events. When you talk about the fact that there was a common decision after that that there would be no more referendum on basic contracts, that is not true. Here, if I may correct you a little bit. Each country, each country decides in accordance with its national regulations to ratify a single basic contract, whether it will use the referendum path or use a parliamentary path. When it comes to the Lisbon Treaty, 26 Member States have chosen a parliamentary path. One chose a referendum and you know it very well. I see you are very well prepared and have studied the texts, which is a good example for the Croatian public and Croatian citizens. I'm glad that you've studied such a thorough contract so that you've even read and read it seems to me that it's counseling work, I haven't seen what you're waving at a colleague on a mission in Brussels and an ambassador's mentor. But keep in mind the following if the Minister allows. Councilwork isn't the official views of the ministry. What she said was true. This is one effort between professional and scientific efforts to perfect Croatian diplomats, which is one of the colleagues who has been actively following the work of the European Parliament for years. Did I recognize that correctly? Well, I'm glad I recognized it. We can copy it and divide it, then it'd be useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1700	Thank you. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1701	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I will actually speak sectorally. I will talk sectorally about the cancer results that we have achieved in the negotiations, about science, research, and education and culture. I will speak about what awaits us in the European Union, but I will also look back at what we would expect if we did not enter. We recognize the key and strategic importance of education and science for further development and for the benefit of each individual and for the benefit of the collectives and, therefore, we sometimes pay less attention to him. Joining the EU will get you a lot. On the one hand, the results, therefore, will be recognised in all EU countries in almost automatic ways. A great benefit for both our students and our teachers and for all those who operate in this sector. Secondly, not only the final stages of education will be recognised but the relevant segments of education will also be recognised. This means if a student spends one semester or one school year, if a student spends the right time studying, or at a school or at a university in EU countries, and that segment will be recognised as being equivalent as having done it at a home school or at a university. Among other things, the EU not only enables mobility, mobility and stimulates students to spend at least one semester in other countries' universities, to spend appropriate time in other schools, and thus to gain knowledge that is significantly more developed in developed countries, to work in laboratories that are much more equipped, to actually bring back a part of their own country's experience from abroad, as well as from colleagues and colleagues that is not irrelevant to bring a culture of work and responsibility. In scientific research, the EU is much more structured than it is in education, which is actually managed by the Council of Europe. So in research, there are appropriate standards that are either applied or actually planned. These standards concern organisation and research in general and scientific institutions, they refer to, which is particularly valuable to us, investment rates and about 2% of GDP investment, which is the average in European countries in EU countries is still an unattainable goal for us. So we either fell to 0.7 or below 0.7%. Then European scientific research operates at the level of something called Framework Programme 7 that has cca 50 billion original euros, so 50 billion, and then some scientific communities in their own countries have increased that. So, 50 billion euros that, however, enter the EU cease to be funds for international co-operation because they become actually research within European institutions that take place through centres of excellence so that we are followed by appropriate newspapers. I would like to remind you of colleagues and colleagues that something called the Lisbon Strategy, which was adopted if I was not wrong in the 3rd month of 2000, which outlined the developments in 2010, highlighted the importance of education, science and technology. I would like to remind you that the Lisbon Treaty draws or better says the Europe Development Strategy 20/20. That this development strategy of Europe 20/20 has a hundred points today. That the first point is education, that the second and third points are science and innovation. And this importance that the EU attaches to these activities must be translated into all its members and then to Croatia. If we did not join the EU, Croatian diplomas would remain valid only for Croatian citizens. If we did not join the EU, we would not have the possibility of any mobility but would have taken place at the level of controversial bilateral agreements, we could not develop a national qualification framework which is in fact part or orderly from the European Qualifications Framework and could not be employed with any, in this case abroad, on foreign markets and could not receive any support and assistance for scholarships, nor for exchanges, and in particular for scientific research. It therefore seems to me that as far as Chapters 25 and 26 are concerned, that is, the sector I am talking about is crucial and decisive. I would therefore like to point out that, of course, EU accession is and as far as these sectors are concerned, assistance, opportunity and challenge. It's up to us how we use it. The inability to use and help challenges could be disastrous for all of us not only for tomorrow but also for the day after tomorrow, not just for us, but for our children. I therefore believe that those who take care of the future will decide not only to go to the referendum but also to vote for EU accession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1702	Thank you very much. I didn't see any reaction, I guess I shouldn't have because they weren't there. The following word came from Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1703	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. To talk about Croatia entering Europe, such a community of free peoples, citizens and speak in a way where honey and milk await us, where all our problems will be solved only because we will enter Europe would be irresponsible. In such a way, if we were to speak, we would be declared and declared false prophets themselves. To talk about Croatia's entry into Europe as if we were entering the Promised Land I'm saying it would just look like such conversations. Much more serious conversations and much more responsible conversations follow us here today, especially when we have people who are concerned and who need us who are in favour of Croatia's entry into Europe to give an answer, so we are invited just more than ever before to dialogue, not to disqualifications and qualities, after all, it is waiting for us tomorrow in Europe, to be people of dialogue, to be prepared and listen to others and their arguments that are not without reason, but which we are just because we are for Croatia to enter Europe and we need to give an answer. So, at a time when Croatia is really in one historic time not only for its tomorrow, but for its recent and further future, let us remind ourselves, it is time to remember the whole Europe of which John Paul II spoke. who said that an unimaginable Europe that breathes full of lungs, its western wing and its eastern wing is only so Europe can really breathe with its full lungs. We are therefore entering the community of free peoples, it is time to remember that beginner, the creator of the European Montet idea, which is still far from 1950, which preceded the carbon and steel communities that precedes the European Union when he said we are not uniting countries, we are uniting people. And just let it be the thought of a guide in these moments. In Europe, we Croats and Croatian citizens are not foreigners. To give up Europe for this would also mean to give up on ourselves in those moments, and we do not want that because it would be extremely irresponsible. So we have to tell people, it would be wrong to say there's no alternative, there's always alternatives, but the question is what brings one possibility and what other possibility. Joining the European Union is not a dam against all the bad things it has and exists in the European Union but it has long come to Croatia. Then when it seemed impossible and it was a long way off, it was a long time ago when we would enter the European Union, and the negative consequences and the negative things from Europe entered Europe first. So let us remember these moments that we had in Croatia, what we have and what we have to change. Namely, people who have lost their jobs, without pay, people who are almost sent into debt slavery, who have been declared and marginalized, they feel that they are victims and are therefore suspicious that they are victims of European politics. No, I don't. They're victims of the wrong policy, and we have to change that policy, but that's why we were masters alone. Since privatised companies, which were the consequences of this, for corruption and crime who blamed us, it was originally Croatia's product and we need to change that and it needs to be avoided. Perhaps it is time to remind ourselves of the famous words and of the Krležins who were just talking about how others could really cause us an accident but that we are responsible for the shame ourselves. What we also need to be clear and what is ultimately a challenge for us, but that is something that wakes up in Europe itself, that Europe is a little sober of its delusions, and that should also be spoken of at this point rather than crossing them. For what? Because these things need to be changed. Europe needs to change, it needs deep-rooted changes, and not on that trail of neoliberalism, but precisely on the trail in which man will be the outcome, in which there will be cause and consequences of all things. If that were the case then, first and foremost, in its own country and then in Europe, then Eurosceptics would be far less. When people are treated as slaves, when everything that is originally about man and his main qualities is treated in a way that speaks of human potentials and not of man and his qualities, when spoken of and agreed to talk about human material, then we quietly agreed to talk about human waste. And we here have very political experience to stand up to it all together and change these things. Certainly for the freedom of the market, for the globalisation of capital but what Europe needs and what awaits us, and what we are invited to act on, and surely we will be involved in Croatia, but also Europe needs the globalisation of labour and the globalisation of solidarity, such a task is just waiting for us. But with a lot of optimism, we need to look at this new assignment. This is not only an invitation to an abstract internationalist action but one deep analysis of such an international action must just precede one assessment and an assessment of the strategy and perspective of action in that direction. It is very clear in this crisis, division and within Europe itself, between the countries of the centre of Europe and those of the periphery, and this difference has become both dramatic and dramatic lately, and in terms of the impact on European policy. What encourages and what Social Democrats Martin Schultz spoke about in the European Parliament tomorrow, the President of the European Parliament, who has spoken about it in his opening speech, and he has strongly criticised exactly these difficulties in Europe and what needs to be changed, and I think that here we can all agree on it, which is that the market needs its freedom, but it needs one democratic control. He spoke precisely about the need for greater influence should have fewer countries and he even classically spoke about the agreement between France and Germany that it was some sort of agreement on the beach, alluding to talks in Deauville and not there and in those formal structures where all countries should be invited to act in a clearer way especially in times of crisis. And it raises one crucial question that almost all European politicians are running away from, and which one is the first to ask, what has the crisis come from? What's the crisis about? She's going to come here cyclically like this all the time. It is not some extraterrestrial and alien discomfort almost if some atmosphere that has affected Europe and the whole world. It is the cause of the wrong policy in which it was not human and the meaning of the well-being of every man above all return and I will re-absorbed the return to solidarity. That is why it is a great opportunity for all of us who are invited to act and in Croatia to have these issues affirm the issue of labour protection, employment, solidarity as soon as possible. But that is why we are invited to act equally because these are issues that cannot be fully resolved only in Croatia but, above all, in one of these common areas in Europe. So here I am also to conclude the words of a Krleža that staying at home would be his own escape, would be one moaning, and moaning over his fate is not worthy of a single woman, let alone a single nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1704	Thank you very much. I have before me an application from respected representative Branko Vuksic. And thank you very much. Because we have Vukusic and Vuksic
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1705	Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1706	Vuksic, thank you very much. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1707	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. I'm going to start with your definition of sovereignty that you just said. Unfortunately, you have stated the definition of sovereignty from 19. For centuries, when the definition was based on territorial control, the monopoly of repressive apparatus and the right to regulate on its territory. Today you can bend your territory against the wall and with tanks, but if your banks are owned by you, you lose sovereignty, if you are the most potent foreign-owned companies, you lose sovereignty. The concept of sovereignty is completely different. And besides, these banks will also buy those who operate those tanks and who have girded that wall. As I said before, the issue of joining the EU for us Labourists is not at all questionable. We are also founded in view of Croatia becoming an equal EU member country today and tomorrow. However, what we are looking for is that those who decide whether we should join the EU or not really know where they are going. I think it's cynical. Everyone here claimed that everyone had a chance to know. It is the same as in the 1990s that all have the opportunity to buy Rovinj tobacco factory or that they all have the same start to become rich in Croatia. And we know well that it wasn't like that, we know well how privatisation was done. The underlying grudge from which the Eurofile was converted into Eurosceptics was precisely because it was coming from the height, precisely because here, and I was as a journalist observer, always said as everyone must know. I do not agree with Madam Minister that three weeks of campaigning to meet Croatian citizens with what is waiting for us in the EU would be the same as not having those three weeks. What I'm saying is, I'm talking exclusively about HTV which is public television, HTV in which this Parliament has the right to agree, not to edit it, but to speak, I think it's in the interest of HTV that they had and that thematically well-led debates were held. I'm sorry, there wasn't one on HTV. I didn't follow the rest of the media, and I followed them too superficially so I could make an assessment of it. Often here mentions the free market and 500 million people to whom we will have something to offer. I ask all of you what will Croatia offer a market of 500 million people? Everyone was saying there's something better waiting for us, we're much weaker. And what have we done for 20 years and in this House to make us better, to become more equal? At the very beginning of the government that entered last year and took an oath here last year, she committed a major offense at the very beginning. Here's the easiest word I'll use. When you ran the election campaign, then you said we'd postpone. If you don't believe me now, I'll bring you a copy of those texts tomorrow, we'll postpone the referendum by March at the earliest. As soon as you sat down in the chairs as popularly said, you trampled that word. I think the debate would contribute by March, but it would also show that you stick to your words. What Mr. Lesar used to say before you gave 42 days to people that on the basis of what you negotiated, I am, of course, talking more about the former government than the present one who was involved in this much less, while all the other countries are taking for themselves to be ratified for 16 months. They say that's the procedure in Europe. We who want to go to Europe are given 42 days. And who gives it to us? You're on your own. Because they say if we don't go in now, we'll never, then we'll be with the Serbs, we'll stay in the Balkans, which is not the same. It's all about the attitude with the citizens. Normally, I have to take advantage of what the minister used to say about these videos spinning on HTV and I guess other TVs were made free of charge. Nothing's free. And if it's bad, it's the most expensive. They're bad. They don't speak, they don't make any arguments other than continuing apologetics, which is why they should enter the Union and should enter the Union. You should have said these are the good sides, these are the bad sides of the European Union. This is bad for us, get ready because you're not going to challenge, it's a popular word, it seems to me that for the first time I've heard of this speaker I've said to Dr. Ivo Sanader, and now it's repeated that these are the challenges, not the problems, these are the traps that we're going to fall into. That's what we were supposed to talk about. That is why some Europhiles have become Eurosceptics because they are not spoken honestly. You can't talk about one man in superlatives, and you know he's got flaws. The European Union is spoken of at symbol level. Is this morning the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Milanovic, spoke at the level of the symbol. We do not enter the European Union symbolically, we are actually entering the European Union. And I repeat, I hope that we will have a 70% exit and that 60% of those will be to join the European Union, that a group of those who are equally unargumented are speaking against the European Union that citizens will not follow, that they will round up "yes". Then why am I even saying that if I'm sure it'll be "yes"? Well, just because we need to do something else in those 14 months, because we're going to be watched, because I don't want to fool ourselves here, that we're not speaking frankly here in the House. Here's a place where you have to say what we think and what you are. And in the end, I started with sovereignty, yes, we give up a great deal of sovereignty, we gave it up. We've given up sovereignty before, selling banks, selling telecommunications. He announced the prime minister and the first deputy prime minister of the government that we would give up more parts of sovereignty. Which is why, because we're in this situation, because we're going to sell potent companies and hire, rent some strategic companies, communicate for 30, 50 years. That is why I am not afraid to join the European Union because we will, in part, be the owners of those already in the European Union. Anyway, as a Croatian Labourist, I call on Croatian citizens to come out on Sunday for a referendum and to certainly round up the "yes". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1708	Thank you very much. The next respected representative to take part in the debate is Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1709	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would say first and foremost for me personally, and then for my colleagues from the Croatian People's Party, the issue of Croatia's entry into the European Union is, in fact, the issue of the civilization and democratic achievement of Croatian society as a whole. This referendum that we will have in a few days is actually a certain maturity test for all of Croatia, for Croatian citizens. In fact, for ten years we've been in school benches, we've been told and we know we've learned enough to pass. Today, I am saddened that just from these benches, it means from colleagues who are invited to be the most formed, I hear precisely underestimating, underestimating Croatia, underestimating our abilities, our opportunities, and in the way that we are spoken and thinking that we are not ready, that we are not informed, that we are not educated, sufficiently strong, and that is used as an argument against entering the European Union, or putting our citizens in one big misunderstanding, directly, means only a few before the act of decision itself. I would agree that we are not a great society, but I also think that we are not for the unit, and today some colleagues in their discussions shared units with the Croatian society and the Croatian state, and we fell in that exam after their discussions. I think they are not even aware of the responsibility at the moment at which Croatia is and not only because of the referendum, but rather because of the general responsibility of the speech for these positions of parliamentary representatives, because it is certain that the European Union is still looking at us through the increase. It is certain that we are ahead of a whole series of key decisions in the next few months, that we are ahead of the budget, that we are financially in a very difficult situation, that Croatian financial evaluation and evaluation will be very soon and that these messages are certainly not for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or Croatia as a whole. So in these negotiations, which were really the longest of the founding and which were the most difficult, which I am personally pleased because Croatia has done very much in these negotiations for itself and for its citizens, but they were really very rigorous. They told us, so those who are much better than us and we are aware that they are better than us, and the Germans and the Swedes, all those who have been our role model today, that we are ready to enter that society, and we are here today some, not all of them, but some are sending messages that we are not. That really makes me sad. In fact, everyone has the right to their own political stance. However, parliamentarians also have a commitment to a political stance, but it seems to me that this position at the moment, because there has been enough time, is not quite a responsible political position, if at all it can be called a political stance, given that some colleagues are talking about the position that they are European-oriented, while at the same time offering a whole series of arguments that speak exactly differently, so it would be just as good that this attitude and clearly say and do not confuse their constituents, sympathisers, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I see actually two major dangers. One is, of course, a political danger in case this referendum fails to succeed which I do not believe, but that the political danger is great because in that case Croatia remains isolated in this area of Europe, the latter destabilised safely and we will again be pushed into the political space from which we have fought to get out of which we of course had great victims, we have had war and we all know how difficult it was to get to our independence. And it is not clear to me that again through some of these discussions we will allow such dangers to remain isolated and destabilise ourselves in this space where we live, perhaps realistically, if this referendum does not pass. The second danger is, of course, economic. The European Union is a major market and is one of the three key economic centres of power in the world alongside, of course, America and the Far East. The market is 500 million people we've heard more than once today. In the European Union there are also centres of financial power that still regulate all financial parameters in the areas where we live and will regulate them and continue to enter the European Union or not. And they certainly observe outside what is happening in Croatia and what will happen and what messages from this Parliament are coming from. What is the main question is whether we want to influence these centres of power, whether we want to be in decision-making places, which is actually the decision to join the European Union, whether we want to show our ability, is measured by the best because Europe is the best, the best quality living space in the entire globe of the Earth. Or we want to sit in the back benches for a longer period of time and be on the verge of events with a very uncertain fate and economy, as well as political flows. Of course, this is also linked to concrete money that we can withdraw from the European Union where more than 3 billion euros are involved. And I ask all of us together where we're going to find this 3 billion fresh money, the euro if we're not in a position to get it through projects that we're going to run for EU funds, and we're going to make a very fast budget and we know what budget problems we have. And now something quite concrete in favor of why. I come from a county that recently signed a contract for a big project. It is about the Waste Management Centre, which will also be financed by the European Union. It's a 50m-euro project. From that, the European Union will allocate almost 24m euros. What are the benefits? Huge. First of all, we as a county do not have to finance such a project. If we wanted to finance it ourselves, we'd have to be in charge. Waste management for our citizens would be about 40% as much as the participation of the European Union in this project is more expensive. So for citizens, ultimately, this disposal of waste would be 40% more expensive than what will be given that they invested funds in the construction of this waste. I will not speak at all of the benefits arising from environmental protection in our space, and a contract has also been signed with the contractors where the public is usually also misinformed that foreign companies will come to us to perform work for European money. The performance of the works on the facility was obtained by domestic companies. Here is a positive example which I hope will be a series at the moment when Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1710	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The next person who wants to take part in the debate is a respected representative of Tanja Vrbat. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1711	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished foreign ministers. Here we are all this day, in this long debate we are discussing all possible aspects of our country's accession to the European Union. We are discussing what has been a very great pleasure to me in the almost consensual atmosphere of all parliamentary parties, in the atmosphere of the consensus that has begun since the very beginning of this long negotiating road, this long road made up of and of the difficult steps that will lead to the rapid full membership of our country in the European Union. Today, our country, thanks to this adjustment path, has been deeply transformed into a legislative and institutional sense, and today we are still waiting for the opinion of our citizens on this road that we have been through. Today, there have been a lot of words about the adequate information of our citizens on European issues. I personally believe and we, in the SDP club, feel and I am glad that many colleagues here in this assembly feel that in Europe in recent years there has been a lot of debate in particular in this Visko home of Croatian democracy in which each negotiating chapter has been discussed. All the important aspects of accession were discussed, all the controversial, difficult political issues we faced on this long journey. Any point of access to the contract was discussed in one way or another. The second question is how was that followed? And here, unfortunately, I must say, I dare say a well-intentioned criticism to the media who may have had our debates here that were once deeply boring to the night. What we have been saying here for years, that previous council and those before it who have dealt with European issues have not been adequately followed. Today, then, perhaps you wouldn't have heard these things if we didn't know anything about Europe today. I believe that we who deal with politics from all relevant political parties particularly parliamentary debates have conducted a great deal on the subject. I am convinced, however, that most of our Croatian citizens and citizens know very well what Europe is bringing, and I am convinced that on Sunday, a large number will come out and responsibly round that on the ballot. I particularly want to address the referendum itself as an institute today because citizens who decide on the referendum play a central role in the EU as an institution. The referendum was crucial in the Union's life many times, and I have brought us all together today, and, above all, to the citizens, I want to remind myself of some of those moments that have occurred in the history of the EU. As a way of expressing and deciding, direct decision-making, citizens and citizens he played a central, crucial role in the entire history of the Union. We have explained, in these years behind us, what membership brings with it, what the classical state in the classical sense of words willfully disowns, which powers and decisions leave to the Union, which are the costs of membership, which are the financial and other benefits of that same membership, we have heard very much about it today in this thematic debate. So I, as I said, want to look back at the very institute of a referendum in the history of the Union. When we talk about referendums relating to the enlargement of the Union, except for the countries themselves, of course, the founders of the Union and the rare country, and these are really very rare countries that did not provide for a referendum as a method of accession, it is interesting to recall that France as the founding country took place in April of '72. the year of the referendum on the possibility of EU enlargement, i.e. the then European Communities, to new members. The referendum, which was attended by 60% of French citizens for further enlargement, was voted by 68% of voters. Immediately thereafter, the candidates for membership of Ireland, Denmark and Norway hold accession referendums and 83% of voters in Ireland and 63% of voters in Denmark support their countries' entry into the European Community while Norwegians say 53.5% against joining the European Community. Norway has twice voted against their country's entry into the European Community, however, the reasons here today are explained in detail as far as Norway is concerned, because this is one rare, or only example when membership was rejected in the referendums. It should be said that Norway has implemented a large part of European legislation in its national legislation the same as Switzerland which has not entered the EU, but has entered the Schengen area and accepted a large number of contracts that form the very pillars of the European Communities, i.e. today the Union. It is interesting to say about the membership, there have been attempts to join the EU, so it is '74. The United Kingdom's Labour Government, Harold Wilson, has issued a referendum asking citizens whether they want the United Kingdom to remain in the European Communities and, with 64% of voters leaving the UK, 67% of citizens say they remain in the community. In the following extensions in '94. In the referendums, they joined the vast majority of Austria, Finland and Sweden until it was again in '94. Norway rejected membership. A large wave of enlargement covering 10 member states in 2004 preceded the 2003 referendums in all countries except Cyprus and all of the support was very high. They went from 92.46% to entering Slovakia to minimal Maltese support of 54%, but passing though. These countries, as we know later, became full members on 1 May 2004. However, as such, the referendum was held on many other important issues other than the enlargement and membership itself in EU life, as well as on the issue of the introduction of a common currency, i.e. the EURA, ratification of a further agreement that has been building on the gradual agreements on the Union. I wanted to point out here that citizens play a very central role in the life of the Union. The referendum therefore determines only its history and its life. And our Sunday referendum will not only mark the life of the Republic of Croatia, it will mark both the life and the future of the EU as such. And it will mark the success or failure of its policies. I mean here on the enlargement policy that I think is one of the most successful policies Europe has ever come up with. This enlargement policy has stabilized and brought peace, economic progress throughout our entire continent. A referendum in which I hope that our citizens will come up with an extremely important, crucial role, and I am glad that we have reduced tensions on their subject and that we have not used this topic too much for daily-political purposes. And we need to work even harder on this because it is about the national strategic interests that we all share, we must not collect cheap political points on the subject of EU accession and treat the citizens and the institutions of this country irresponsibly. It should be said that the negotiations and all of ours I would say the thorny path towards full membership has significantly defined the Republic of Croatia in economic terms in terms of international position and Croatia today is no longer what it was at the beginning of that trip. We still have a lot of work to do on ourselves, work on implementing the legislation that we have adopted, work on achieving the high goals and high criteria that we ourselves have set. So I really hope that the referendum will mark only one stage in our further development and that the citizens of this country will trust us when we say that it is indeed of our interest to join the EU as soon as possible. So I call on citizens to come out on Sunday and responsibly round to the ballot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1712	Thank you very much. The next speaker to apply for a debate on the subject is the respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1713	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have a very important topic ahead of us, I am sure that the Croatian people have already decided that Croatia is a place in the EU. As Croatia is European, so is Europe Croatian. I can say that we have waited more than 10 years for this day, this referendum and there is a lot of pain, effort and work for this done especially in those years of the creation of the Croatian state. The preamble to our Constitution states that one of our key goals when the Croatian state of Croatia was created to join the UN is Croatia's entry into NATO Pact, a defence shield that will protect Croatia from external enemies, and the entry of our country into the European Community today into the European Union. I remembered on the day of Croatia's international recognition on 15 January of one of our late musician Tomislav Ivčić when he addressed the international public with a song Stop the war in Croatia, one of the lyrics and says "Let Croatia become one of the European stars and let europa stop the war in Croatia". And today we have welcomed even because of these late people who each in their own way joined the defence of Croatia, some weapons, some of their lives, some of them with a song, some sport, and I have always thought that Croatia is a member of the European Union as a member of the historical, geopolitical, strategic, spatial, all the facts are in favour of our people being the European people. Our government, the government of the Croatian Democratic Community, ruled for a full 17 years, in the 17 years of Croatian rule I believe that our citizens, the people of the Republic of Croatia, have clearly recognised the advantage of Croatia's membership in the European Union, we have heard today many parliamentary representatives who wanted to make their contribution to Croatia into the European Union, but I would like to repeat something that is very important first of all for the Croatian Democratic Community, for us HDZ representatives but also for our government who in the last two and a half years led by our party president and Vice-President of the Parliament Mrs Kosor did the most. There was a mockery these days when we were reporting for word and when we talked about our successes but one thing couldn't be challenged. If two and a half years ago our government had not unblocked the negotiations and had not signed an agreement with Slovenia on arbitration, we would not have discussed the European Union, the referendum, the achievements, the objectives, the economy, the finances. So let us remember that the Croatian public should know that when we talked about arbitration, most of you SDP representatives asked for additional reasons to show the agreement, to read the agreement, to further explain, and when your representative of the SDP today, Mr Josipovic, the president of the Republic of Croatia, voted against this agreement, and Mr Josipovic, thanks to our government and the proposal of our President, Mrs Kosor, signed an accession contract for Croatia's entry into the European Union. Also last year, the president said in April that he did not believe the negotiations would end, so if they end, there will be no success, if our government fails to resign. So this... cooperation can't exactly be said to have come from your side towards the Croatian Democratic Community and according to something we may have sacrificed power for. You know, it's not a shame to lose power, but it's honorable to preserve your face and your honesty and your goal, if we know what we're trying to achieve. One of the key objectives and conditions in Chapter 23 was the unreserved fight against corruption and organised crime, and it was our government and our president who may have done the harm of HDZ at that time made order in our ranks, we gave up crime, we gave up people who betrayed us, we gave up those who embarrassed us, we left everything that is not good for Croatia, even at the cost of what we are sitting in opposition today, we are an honorable opposition, it is honorable to serve the Croatian people and opposition. And our achievements are mentioned today by the most important people in the European Union. If you would allow me to quote Mrs Angela Merkel's letter after the January 6th election sent to our President, Jadranka Kosor, where you clearly have contributed significantly to Croatia's progress on the way to the European Union. The signing of the accession treaty is a well-deserved prize for the consistent implementation of your country's reforms in recent years, and you too have gained great sympathy for your dedicated work in the fight against corruption, nepotism and great respect for Croatia. Also, Mrs Hilary Clinton, U.S. Secretary of State, in her letter, our party's president particularly points out your mandate has been marked by true achievements of history to record that you have successfully led Croatia to membership in the European Union, the more your search for investigations according to the highest levels of government has been unprecedented and has sent a clear message that corruption in the Republic of Croatia and in the highest authorities of the state will not be tolerated, that is, to us, that is to say, our achievement, and none of you will ever be taken away from it, we have done our job honorably, and we have achieved honorably the merits of our country becoming a member of the European Union. That is why I personally objected that you did not allow HDZ to belong to the Committee on European Affairs, because we have made a special contribution to Croatia's entry into the European Union in the last two years and deserve to lead this committee, because you cannot deny that in the last two years our party has made a special contribution to the entry of the European Union, you can think of what you want, it can be a laugh, it can be a mockery, but one thing is certain that our merits will not be challenged. Today, it is said that Croatia enters the European Union when the European Union is falling apart, that we are coming at the end of the ballad, that we are coming into the story when there are many problems and when it is thought about whether membership in the European Union is necessary at all. I would say that the European Union is changing, that it is getting one new contour, that it is no wonder that such a large giant Member State with many differences there are problems. It is precisely the solution to these problems and Mrs Merkel's own contribution over the last few months that the problems are creating a new European Union unity and it is precisely the goal of the European Union community, Croatia is a place in this community, we have stood by for many years, we have been as a member of observers, we have not been able to vote for anything, today we deserve that as a 28th member of the European Union our country, our people proudly stand on it. We are in a referendum with our Croatian defenders who have created the Croatian state and who will best understand these European Union stars who have sacrificed their lives and hundreds of their families for both Croatia and the European Union. I think it is particularly important that in these days until the referendum each of us MPs, regardless of which side we sit, we make a special contribution... that the referendum must succeed. It is the future of our country, it is the future of young people who are educated in Croatia, who will seek jobs in the European Union countries, and it is also a new challenge that I think Croatia deserves. It is a historic opportunity and I will repeat what Croatia is European and Europe is Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1714	Thank you very much. At your presentation, a respected colleague has one replica, a respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1715	Thank you. Well, we heard from Mr. Salapic and several MPs today during this debate about how Croatian defenders died singing "Unite, unite Europe" in 90 and 91, I think the European Community in 90 years and the European Union in 2012 I don't think they have much to do with the other, that's the first. Secondly, Croatian defenders fought for the Croatian state and for Croatian state independence, and not for the EU or the European Community, without contesting the effort of all of us and the desire to enter the EU today, but I think withdrawing such analogies, I think, is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1716	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1717	Dear fellow, that this is now... a clean unit. I said that in the preamble to the Croatian Constitution in our historic goals, the UN, NATO Pact and the European Community. I have made a link between the European Community as a road to the EU that is our historic path. And if you didn't understand me correctly, then you wouldn't listen to me. If I were to judge you now, I'd give you a clean unit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1718	Dear Representative citizens give us grades, leave it to them. And for this topic, a respected representative, Martina Banic, applied. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1719	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. These days, the EU is an inevitable topic in every corner of our beautiful. On how challenging and demanding work is best told by the fact that most of the countries entering the EU were not the government that completed the negotiations. This is due to a number of denials, numerous reforms and sacrifices that need to be made before joining this elite society. ... that we are often overwhelmed by unrealistic expectations. [[Speech is not enabled.]] We're always going back to the economy and its development, and we're forgetting and we're not aware that the economies have been standing for decades. And we can track this through the history of the EU especially when we know that Croatia was faced with imposed war, aggression, human casualties. Our current competitors on the global market have been developing peacefully for the past 60 years. Therefore, the completion of the negotiations must not be taken for granted or considered to be the most normal thing to meet the formal preconditions for EU entry. That's enough to look at our neighbors who are only at the beginning of the trip. If we look back at the past, all the reforms that have been successfully implemented today are very well accepted and what is most important is to make daily life easier for our citizens. Society went forward as a whole, and we can say that we are operating at a much higher level than it was at the beginning of our negotiations. And because of these efforts and all the reforms implemented, we must thank the previous government for the lead with Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. The success of the upcoming EU referendum will be crucial for the Republic of Croatia and for the future of its citizens. The referendum on the EU is an issue that exceeds day-to-day political plantings. This is the most important decision the Croatian people will make since the referendum on the independence of the Republic of Croatia. In the referendum we confirm our European orientation we are joining the European family and we are finishing setting the groundwork for a better future. It may be a shame that despite the campaign that has been led over the past years, citizens have become more serious about the EU only now. We must therefore be very pragmatic and let everyone know that in our case, the EU alternative is a very uncertain future. History will also show that we live in breaking moments for the Republic of Croatia. And all those who have repeatedly criticised our alleged slowness in the EU accession process can say only one thing. In the coming years, follow the progress of our neighbours, you will wonder how many reforms Croatia has implemented and how well we have done. As a young person, I also want to mention the role of young people in this important process. The young people are logically and most excited about Croatia's entry into the EU because they are familiar with the concrete benefits of membership in the Union, we are aware of the unlimited opportunities of education, job finding, facilitating mobility and so on. The big exam also awaits us in selecting people who will find their jobs in the Brussels administration. This government is tasked with opening the door to capable and educated young people who will truly be able to respond to all the challenges that they face. In the upcoming referendum, young people will also play a major role and will take the greatest burden in recent Croatian history for the first time. We are a locomotive for Croatia's EU entry and we will be the ones to convince their families to come to the referendum because we are aware that this is our future. And finally let me, as a parliamentary representative, but first of all as a young person, invite all young people to the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their political status, to attend a referendum on Sunday 22 January and say that they help Croatia in the EU and thus help achieve another historic goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1720	Thank you very much. The following has been reported for the debate by a respected representative, Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1721	Dear Vice President, dear Minister Mrs Pusic, colleagues and colleagues. Croatian citizens and citizens will attend a referendum on Sunday 22 January where each individual decision on Croatia's fate, i.e. themselves and all Croatian citizens on a very long deadline. I am convinced of the wisdom of Croatian citizens and I am convinced that our joint decision will be for Croatia's entry into the EU. However, in the last two, three weeks, there has been some kind of cloud of doubts about the regularity of Croatia's entry into the EU, which is spreading in my personal opinion, supported and clumsy reactions by some media, public figures and civil society associations. To say immediately my personal position and firm conviction that the EU is the single community of sovereign countries that many speakers have said before me, and that it is the most advanced, modern, the richest, richest, with the highest standards of human rights and civil freedoms, the best and most advanced technologies of communities in the world. I personally have no doubt or dilemma that for Croatia and its citizens, the Millennium issue is a decision to join the EU. Much has been said today about all the benefits of the EU. I would look back and I would like to talk here about the importance and role of civil society or civil society organisations in the context of Croatia's EU accession. We in HNS believe that the civil sphere is a particularly important part of society and the development of state and society as a whole. The civil society organisation, in our opinion, is in its nature a bond between the state and the interest of individual citizens. Every individual in a sovereign society and organized states has every right equal with... other citizens to achieve their ambitions and interests. Since the specific personal interests of specific affinities, professions, jobs, free activities are indeed diverse, from the birds’ associations, dog lovers to astronomical associations and societies to employers' associations, trade unions, human rights associations, ceoch associations, actors' associations. Individuals join together to achieve their specific and common, individual interests and objectives together. Today’s modern - day civil sphere differs considerably from that of example. The civil spheres 20 years ago, 10 or 5 years ago, and human interests and areas of human interest are increasing daily, thus increasing the sphere of civil society. With Croatia's entry into the European Union, these areas will increase significantly with us. But why did I even start talking about civil society in the debate on the subject of information on the course and the results of negotiations on the accession of the European Union? It seems to me, among other things, that the Croatian civil sphere is not in one large part or has not fully done its part of the job of informing its members and related to the accession of the European Union. It seems to me that during the 6 years of negotiations, various associations had to engage more strongly in informing their members about all issues and any changes to the regulations in their scope, from the textiles and hairdressers association to the metal industry or the agricultural chamber association to the Association of Godars or associations for the promotion of human rights or animal rights. In fact, civil society war associations and their leaders hear criticism that citizens are not sufficiently informed. I think it was part of their job. However, this topic is not only about criticism but also about the appeal that I refer to members, for individuals to encourage their management of civil society associations to inform themselves as soon as possible with the competent authorities of changes and possible new legal obligations concerning their areas of interest, which will enter into force on 1 July 2013 by entering Croatia into full membership of the European Union. I appeal because certainly the full truth of the information is ours for the right solution to the problem, changes to the rules and new laws and rules, and the Czech associations and civil society associations are, in their nature, a real place that can and should be properly, truly informing their many memberships, to the last member. And indeed, he has outsmarted us because of the possible lack of information, but primarily because of the semi-information and publication of complete untruths, we have been overcome by that cloud of doubt that I was talking about at the beginning of this presentation, and this cloud has gone from some irrational fears to irrational, but he will spread in a moment. Because, regardless of any individual fears and doubts, I am deeply convinced of the wisdom of Croatian citizens and citizens who every time it was important and when it was most needed to recognize the real Croatian national interest and I am convinced that, apart from the high percentage of the vote on the referendum, they will vote for Croatia's entry into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1722	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Next, a respected representative named Nancy Tyrelli appeared. Here you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We heard a lot of things in this assembly today. For me, the key issue at this point is what we really need to be afraid of when it comes to such an important decision for all Croatian citizens and for the Croatian state. Should we fear the baukes of a united Europe, whether the wrong global neoliberal economic dogma that is here dictates to the governments of the world and shows all the impotence and citizens, but also the authorities. Should we fear the crisis in which the whole world is located, as well as the obvious increase in social differences? The countries of continental Europe are fortunately showing a significantly smaller anomaly of the rich and the poor and generally better living in them. Maybe that's exactly what gives us all hope and shows us a certain direction. Do we need to be afraid of ourselves? We need, yes, although it is, of course, bad as it was bad and it is a bad sad media campaign that was served by the government on its way out, but also by the new government. I think we've earned much more than spreading stupid propaganda and underestimating our citizens. Democratic principles are ideals that are sometimes very far from reality, and we have seen this precisely in the example of this referendum, and many have talked about it today. Some critics of the situation in the European Union rightly argue that if the European Union were to run to become a member it would probably not succeed. The European Union often does not respect the democratic criteria set by its members and should make that clear. But that just means that we still need to demand changes and further democratisation of democracy, especially in the European Union, but also in Croatia of course. The changes certainly do not need to be feared even though it is human and natural that the fear of change is always present in us and the risk is, of course, universal, but in an old European language, the risk of Portuguese means to dare. In Croatia we have shown and proved in the last 10 years that we are capable of real democratic growth and that speaks a lot about us. We have strengthened institutions, we have strengthened and such an important civil sector, the economy is being restructured but it is only the beginning. And when we talk about globalisation, she has two faces. I want to say here as a person who is tied to his local community of Istria and Primorje, a fact well pointed out by an American psychologist, which is that the nation is too small to solve big problems and too big to solve those little problems. And I think that's exactly the key reason for reviving local cultural identities in many parts of the world, so here we are in Europe. We of course coasters, Istrians are not the only ones in Croatia who know that. But we know how important it is and we were aware of it in the 1990s until today. We were able to preserve our identity. I simply don't see why Croatia too could not preserve its identity in the European Union, strengthen it and be exactly who we are through the European Union. Identity is being created. He's not back once and for all. For Croatia and its citizens, entering the European Union is primarily a matter of long-term strategy and vision. What do we want to accomplish? What are our goals, and what is our vision? It's not a question that someone else is asking us. That's our thing, Cosa Nostra would say Italians. I hope that in this House, but also through universities, civil and media culture of government and NGOs we will discuss our own position in the future. What we want to achieve in the European Union is of the utmost importance to think for every citizen of Croatia and for us Labourists, and this referendum will only be an important decision on this long journey. Croatia can certainly survive without the European Union. It's unnecessary to scare people, it's unnecessary to say that we won't have to retire if we don't get in and stuff like that. Well, we're not entering the European Union for a credit rating. We are entering the European Union for the sake of the values and opportunities that are ahead of us and which the European Union is giving us as such. Mistakes, of course, are part of the process and do not need to be inflated, but at all times it is necessary to try to correct them. We expect ourselves, and that's important. We decide for ourselves, and that's very important. We are not an island, we are surrounded by interests, but we also have our own interest – we want to live better, we want to meet the expectations of citizens, and therefore we must always create conditions for this to happen not to the extent of the ruling elites, not to the extent of the centres of power, but to the extent of all the people who expect it from us. It seems that the time has come when the future will finally overcome that burden of the past that was sometimes tragic and sometimes farce. Let us do everything to make sure that the future does not turn, that this future does not turn into a tragedy or a farce, but into a challenge, a call that we are ready to accept with the belief that we will both know and know better in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1724	Thank you very much. A respected foreign and European minister, Mrs Vesna Pusic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1725	Thank you. A few words about information that has been discussed a lot. There's information, there's not enough, not enough, where and how. First, information is constantly required to say what is real, what is really not true. When she says it, God forbid. So let's not have any doubts. We are clearly entering Europe because of European values, but one of these values is political stability, and political stability is literally measured. So it is not an impression, but it is measured among other things as regards membership in the Union as a sign of greater stability and will be reflected directly in our budget. Not indirectly but directly reflected in our budget and in all the resources available to us not only from European funds, which is of course a big deal and which is among other things the reason for the referendum to be held now, and not two weeks later. So, with a delay of 2 weeks, not 4 weeks, because we cannot write the Croatian budget without knowing how to make a projection for 2013, without knowing whether we are counting on European funds, whether we are adapting our budget to the accompanying funds that must exist in the Croatian budget in order to run for European projects. Without that projection for 2013 We can't do that. Therefore, and the Croatian budget will, of course, show the measures the government is taking. And these measures will also directly affect money, at the cost of money for Croatia. So, on a credit rating like you said. Credit rating means whether we pay three, six or 12 euros in interest per 100 euros. The simplest words are for Croatia in view of our debt of billions. Therefore, it is absolutely true that the projection of stability, and the projection of stability will be assessed among other things, and how much we are able to repay debts will be projected between us and whether we have a stable environment, which in this case is called the European Union both legally and legally, and by the rules and by the universality of some principles that exist in the European Union and in practice and as far as the law is concerned. So it will directly reflect on our budget and it is neither a fear nor an encouragement nor a blur. It's just plain naked truth. That's what people are about. And if you're not willing to look the truth in the eye, then you're going to have a very hard time making up your mind and you can't go around the facts just because sometimes we don't like them. Facts remain as they are. As far as one scary question here is concerned, what does Croatia have to offer a market of half a million people? If Croatia has nothing to offer the market of half a billion people, if Croatia has nothing to offer the market of half a billion people, then it cannot survive. And with customs, it can survive even less. But ask Mejimura for an illustration. There are companies out there that come forward and ask when they'll finally get there because they can barely breathe while they're holding on to the protection customs they've got at the moment. And that's why their goods aren't competitive or they have to make up a hundred different things, and without these customs, their products would be both good and competitive. But given that there is currently no customs duty for the European market, they are not competitive. As far as information is concerned, the videos are television beautiful, ugly whatever you want, they're certainly not information. They are videos in which we express our position and stick to our EU attitude. What is information is what is published on the web pages and what are links from the most read portals, which was published in the shortest version of the brochures that came into every household and what among other things only the order behind you used in his interpretation and with his views, but Mr. Representative Djurović when he spoke about agriculture with data from that source. These data are public, there are, everyone can reach them, they can read them and they can use them. Of course, after that, it can give its interpretation of whatever it thinks and whatever it looks like. But it was one example that those data were within reach of everyone and that anyone could use them. As far as benefits and challenges are concerned. This is the division that was recently used by the Institute of International Relations, which published a book in which the review of everything negotiated is giving, so that is one public information, has been divided into advantages and challenges. The benefits are plus, and the challenges are minus. If you look at only those challenges they select without reading the benefits, only these challenges are the reason for membership. These challenges are to invest in a higher level of environmental protection. Does that cost? Well, it costs, that's a fact. Invest in a more efficient and better organised public administration. Does that cost? It's worth it. Is that what we need? Well, of course we do. The only question is whether what it costs will be faced with a situation where we will pay it ourselves exclusively from our budget or possibly if we have the ability to combine with European funds. As information concerns information as shown today on some examples and here in the Assembly is public, available and available. The announcement is absolutely everything, the content of the negotiations, which has been sought, which has been obtained, which has not been obtained. Anyone can use them, anyone can use them, and anyone can be informed. And as for the principle of this, of course, everyone has the opportunity and the right to define their position on that basis. It's not absolutely questionable, of course. Investments or sales of sovereignty – just one brief example. The Croatian company bought a Slovenian company, so a Croatian food company bought a Slovenian company. Is that why she violated Slovenian sovereignty? At the same time, we are talking about the desire and the need to invest in Croatia, and every investment means jobs and paying taxes, and at the same time that when anyone invests, it is a question of violation of sovereignty. That's where we have to decide. What are strategic branches or strategic facilities or strategic projects, which is what investment is and is open to investment and we cannot be all the time on the one hand interested in investment by and domestically, and on the other hand every time someone who would invest think it's a violation of our sovereignty. That way we won't be able to recover the economy. We need investments. And we're interested in being interesting about investment. And, of course, we must have a clear picture of several strategic elements that remain in the possession of the state. Anything else, whether the ownership structure is a Croatian citizen or a foreign national depends on the quality of the investment rather than the nationality of a private investor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1726	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. A respected representative, Mladen Novak, came forward on this subject. Here you go, Mr. Mladne.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, I'm definitely not feeling like a politician yet, and I can't live with that yet. Okay, it's going on for a while, but maybe for that reason, I'm just listening to everyone know everything. Eventually, that team of people around me admits that there's something that doesn't know, so it's easy to associate me with the story of a cheating husband, usually he's the last one to know everything. My opinion is personally that it remains in line with the opinion of the Labour Club that it is still too small a deadline was to get citizens to know everything that brings Croatia's EU accession, but I also think that all those who are at the head of individual systems are also not well acquainted with, or sufficiently familiar with the details of what they should definitely be familiar with. In particular, I don't think that Croatia is very well prepared for what is ahead of us, and we have had if nothing else since 18 December 2002 to prepare for what is next. Responsibilities for all of this in my possessions, both the former and the present, and all those who have participated in it so far. But I'll try to back it up with some examples. We heard that science and education have a more or less solid perspective, we heard a less bright perspective of agriculture, or such an opinion, and since I consider myself well enough to know the Croatian railway system I will try to make an analysis of what the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU will mean for Croatian railways. You can stay here and keep your mouth shut. No one will react. ./ Laughter. God save me. Investments from EU funds in the railways are only taken into account in the corridors, i.e. if I am well-informed corridors only with us, otherwise the trans-European network is called. It's an actual 10th corridor, something possibly 5C and 5B, but I think only 10th is real. For those who may not know, and everyone knows that this is a transit between Slovenia and Serbia, it continues towards the other members of the European Union. In other words, it is a transit through the Republic of Croatia that only brings some money. Other railways, local and regional railways cannot be financed in this way, i.e. local self-government can design some projects that will be considered, and if these projects get green light only part of the money will be obtained. One part of the money and probably a small part of the money. Most of the money should be prepared by local self-government to maintain these local and regional railways. The question remains what with operators currently operating in the HZ system, HZ passenger transport, HZ Cargo, HZ Train Trains, we still have three. What about the fleet that is over 30 years old, after entering the European Union, can we keep as national operators, can they even be competitive to whom? Eventually, they could be competitive towards the east but there, for example, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the two railway administrations already have purchased trains from the Spanish. Unfortunately, we don't have a new fleet. So I think that what is definitely left for us is the transport of low-tariff cargo and transport by local and regional railways, which are questionable whether they can survive because we have already put out some railways and are nowhere to be expected to be opened and to invest in them and to change the current situation. This is just, unfortunately, the reality, I don't know if I see it wrong, but that's all I see. What makes me feel, however, that a vote should be given to join the European Union is for purely pragmatic reasons. If we had an orderly country by now, no one would have thought to build a highway from Oranica A to Oranica B, and a specific highway to Sisak is a highway from Oranica A to Oranica B because it starts from nowhere and ends nowhere. In that case, there would be no bridges for nowhere, I believe that there would be less, I'm not saying there would be, there would be less FIMI Media, HEP affairs and such, i.e. I believe that Croatia will be a much more regulated country by entering the European Union. There is another reason why I believe that the "DA" should be rounded is the fact that all banks are already in foreign ownership and we cannot lose them, that if there is a negative response we will probably not enter the European Union by 2020. Although we can have a referendum before, and in that case, apart from being in a package with our eastern neighbours, we will probably be further punished. This all sounds extremely pessimistic and believe me, I'm not pessimistic. I'm just dressed the way it's all done together, I have a feeling that the lecturer is something out front and the thing is the student whether he's going to learn something or not. There's a student who's 4.5 million and who's to blame for not learning. I don't think that's the quality of the lecturer. And in the end, I appeal to all Croatian citizens to come to the referendum because the most important thing of all is that it be at the end of their decision, normally to appeal for them to vote for entry into the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1728	Thank you, too. The next word came from a respected representative, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1729	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I actually come from a region where almost 50% of the population lives in the European Union or in the countries of the European Union, not by their own will, but that's how it happened after II. The World War, something for economic and political reasons they lived there, and I am one of those who lived there and was born, the European Union certainly brings good in itself because if these people were not well after the creation of a free and independent Croatian state, they would return there. But they stayed there, and I believe that's the right way to go today. I am speaking to the people from that very neighborhood to go to this referendum on January 22nd and round the "DA". After the conclusion of the negotiations and the signing of the accession treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in which the previous government has made a huge effort to put forward this referendum, where citizens and citizens of Croatia will be able to express their position on membership in the European Union, of course it has been a long journey... 2003 until the signing of the contract. 12. In 2012. The upcoming referendum scheduled for 22 January 2012 raises a number of issues, of course, of which it is most important about the direct consequences of membership on the everyday life of Croatian citizens in the European Union, the future of Croatia and ultimately on the future of the European Union itself. At this session today, and even in these individual debates, there's been a lot of hearings, and I don't want to repeat myself this time either. But what entrepreneurs, citizens and states receive as a whole by entering the European Union and by making it possible for shortages and difficulties. The shortest membership in the European Union brings numerous opportunities and challenges for Croatia to be prepared. The success of membership depends primarily on the willingness to make the best use of opportunities and to reduce challenges or dangers in each area or sector. Membership opens up great opportunities for entrepreneurs who have both ideas and knowledge and innovation and skills but also have to look at the excellence in which the state has to help them. We are entering a consortium of 500 million people and the fact is that Croatia as a small country with less than 1% of the European Union population is looking for its perspective on that market and I am deeply convinced that it will find it. I say that I would not repeat myself, at the end of the referendum on 22 January 2012, our citizens will decide whether to see us as our improvement and escape from former political ties or as a new political organisation that will deny us all the rights and freedoms that Eurosceptics honor. We don't know that, and we haven't experienced it. May God be last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1730	Next, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, reported on the subject. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1731	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, at first I would like to stress that I am pleased that in the Croatian Parliament and in general on the Croatian political scene there is a broad political consensus on the fact that the European future is a Croatian future. Although we can conclude from the debates of some colleagues that it is only at a declarative level but there is a consensus. I would like to look back on two chapters, in particular Chapters 25 and 26, that is, science and research and education and culture, because I think that is exactly what the largest capital that we can realise by entering the EU is. In fact, European standards prescribe that a certain percentage of GDP is invested in these portfolios, and since Croatia invests in a slightly smaller process, it means entering the EU and synchronising with European standards will lead to the fact that these solutions will make the most significant profit, so if we talk about the financial resources we will invest in them. As far as science is concerned, apart from the increase in resources, our scientists will act equally in the European frameworks with all European circle scientists, as well as participate in the funds, or in competitions, and withdraw the funds that only scientists from countries that are already members of the EU could appear so far. I am sure you will agree with me that Croatia has very much in science to offer the Union which proves many recognised scientific names that already operate in the world and which are very well recognised and famous beyond the borders of our beautiful one. But also Croatia will certainly get a lot by participating at an EU scientific forum where our scientists will be able to acquire new experiences and transfer those experiences to Croatia. Also, colleagues have talked about it before, so I will not be in charge of the mobility of scientists and what that means for the scientific scene in the Republic of Croatia. As far as education is concerned, apart from the increase in investment that will take place in education, it should be stressed that Croatia will continue to maintain its autonomy so that we can continue to decide what kind of education we want, what education we will implement in the Republic of Croatia, of course according to some European standards. The mobility of students and professors is also an extremely important thing when we are discussing EU accession because students from the EU will bring new experiences that will be implemented in Croatia and that will serve not only the development of the educational and scientific system in the Republic of Croatia but also the economic one. Since science and education are a prerequisite or a generator of economic development, this is an important thing, since we will gain European experiences, European technologies, European skills and knowledge that we will be able to use in Croatia, or our workers, so when they return from Europe, they will be significantly more competitive with their knowledge and innovations that will be introduced into the labour market, but also on the economic scene in general. That's exactly what it is if you ask me the EU's largest capital. Because education and science are a fund but not a pre-accession fund, but an EU fund that we will be able to withdraw throughout our EU membership. So it's one huge capital that's going to pour into Croatia, and that's the capital of knowledge. That is exactly what motivates me to vote for EU accession because not only will we improve the scientific and educational scene but we will indirectly encourage and economic development. I believe that most of our citizens have recognized this potential and that they will declare themselves to the EU at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1732	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The next word for this topic came from a respected representative, Ruza Tomasic. I apologize to the honourable MPs for having one replica at the previous exhibition. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow MP, you have said all this nicely, however, and in these promotional videos, but in part only part of the smaller part of your visit bothers to note that our students will have the opportunity to educate themselves at a number of European universities. I would prefer to emphasise that our universities will also be able to absorb students from other countries in order for our universities to become relevant, so one integration in this one horizontal sense, once it was the exchange of students, etc. And today it's something different. So, I don't think that from that promotional message our students will return from abroad and make spaceships in Croatia is what they say, but if our universities get the importance of coming from all over the EU, it would also be a big contribution and it would be one improvement and what we are looking for and moving towards EU accession.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1734	Thank you very much. I apologize again to the representatives of Ruža Tomasic. Here's 10 minutes for your hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1735	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. So here's whether we're going to be good or bad at it is for all of us if we're bad at it, and most of all for those who are bad at the moment, and for them, there's the most. Some countries started their own economy, some countries pulled money from pre-accession funds and almost everything and we almost did nothing. We are in the worst economic situation so far. We have over 300 unemployed and what we can offer the EU now is that we have clean seas, beautiful islands and coasts and many unprocessed pesticides of unpolluted land. We also said that we can extract 687.5m euros from the EU, but that is only the potential we can and must give in the second half of 2013 of 267.7m euros in membership. So the billions that we are offered are only potential, and you can tell from this so far how much we have been able to get money out of European funds. They say it will be very good for everyone in the European Union. So we know that these countries that are in the European Union so far, we all admired Ireland when it came in that it was fantastically bounced, that Ireland was perspective, and of course it was on these EU funds and now it's seen that it was all artificial and now it's seen where Ireland is again. So what I'm saying is, when we enter the European Union, we have to enter a self-aware, uplifted head, with our own economy, with our own way of production, with our own potentials. We are now offering nothing, we are actually entering the European Union on our knees. As far as information is concerned, I think that there should have been a quality public debate including an analysis of the existing situation in the European Union, political conflicts between the leading members in the European Union and the monetary problems of the Eurozone, so perhaps then they would know what is going on and what is waiting for us there. Now let's go with what we're going in with. As far as our agriculture is concerned, our land is so scattered that we can't compete with our exports, we can't use quality and we have a 7-year-old land ban, so they can't buy land, but they can't take a concession on that country and if they take a concession on that land for 10 years while they can buy it, and we know that a lot of those poor peasants will sell that land or give it in a concession for the first 10 years and at the end of 10 years they will work as rental workers in their vineyards, in their fields just as Hungary does and what Slovakia does. Also, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, family economies, are familiar with all the negotiated in the European Union, whether they are adapted to EU regulations and can continue to work when we enter the EU or will have to close trades or businesses until they have all the conditions. Young people are told that there will be jobs in the EU, and we know that there are some countries still ahead of us for youth unemployment, especially those 25-35 years. Our doctors will also go west because, of course, they are much better paid in the West than with us, and so will our nurses, and we know that the demand for nurses is great. We have not declared ZERP, nor will we be able to declare it. I don't know if you know it, but in 2014, small fishermen have to decide whether to deal with economic or recreational fishing. Whether fishermen are aware of this and whether they will be able to fish with their huts, with their fishing fleet, as other members of the European Union are hunting. Something about immigration. At the beginning of last term of the Croatian Parliament, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was amended, the Committee on Immigration was abolished, and there is no more parliamentary committee in its section of immigration policy, so Croatian immigration policy. While other members of the European Union have defined selective immigration policy, Croatia has no immigration policy, it has only some migration policy for 2007, 2008. However, quotas are still being fixed for foreign licenses based on this migration policy. When Croatia enters the European Union, an article of the Foreigners Act will be activated with the basis of which all those who have permanent residence in one of the EU members will be able to come and work in Croatia without a work permit. It should therefore be taken into account that the former colonial forces introduced by the selective immigration policy will try to transfer part of their unqualified workforce to Croatia. I will, of course, vote against because we have time to raise Croatia on our feet, to raise the Croatian economy, to start production, to improve exports and then to enter the European Union with self-awareness and dignity, and until then, if we enter this way, believe us now, we will be farmers in our own country. I live on the island of Korčula where many tourists come and I speak not only in my own name, I speak for those people who betray rooms, who hear all the time, both from the Italians and from the Germans and from the Slovenians, from the Czechs, how bad they are in the European Union and they have heard nothing from the Government from reason. So they still believe that they will not be able to plant olives or vines on the island and on the coasts. So it's not true that everyone knows everything, maybe politicians are informed, but it's not a people. Don't forget, the voice of that people is as valid as the voice of any politician. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1736	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. We have on your display two corrections of an incorrect allegation. The first came to the correction by a respected representative, Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1737	Thank you. ... Well, now you're hearing it. [[Specially enabled.]] It would be a lot of corrections to incorrect allegations, but here I will only remain on one occasion, and it is tied to agricultural land and said that the implementation of the Law on the availability of state agricultural land significantly increased the size of Croatian agricultural holdings. In 2003, the agricultural census averaged the size of Croatia's land was 2.8 hectares per economy. Today, the size of the property is 5.8 hectares, which means 3 hectares or more than double the size of the agricultural property. This is also the result of the availability of state agricultural land where the priority in certain forms of availability, which was sold and leased, had family economies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1738	Thank you very much. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, respected representative Melita Mulic. Here you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1739	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. I actually wanted to correct several incorrect allegations with due respect for the Eurosceptic attitude, given that Mrs. Tomasic is the only one here who represents the option. It's an entirely legitimate option but I don't think we can seduce and misinformed Croatian citizens because it's extremely irresponsible, especially farmers. A propos olive Croatia has no restrictions or quotas or conditions for olive plantations. When it comes to asylum and migration, we can also apply the principle of reciprocity, and when it comes to third countries, we will still set up migration quotas on our own. And when it comes to funds, that's the means available, but let's not forget that the use of funds is about 96%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1740	Thank you very much. Allow me. The debate on this subject was attended by the esteemed representative Valter Boljunčić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1741	Dear Members and members of the Parliament, I would like first of all to say that on behalf of our party IDS and in our own we are giving full support to Sunday's referendum, and once again we call on all citizens to go to the referendum on Sunday and vote in favour. This, of course, is not an accident, given that some positive gains that have always been worth and included in our programme in Europe, and it is not by any chance that the first Minister of European Integration was also the President of IDS Ivan Jakovčić, that Istria is a member of the European regions in the association of the region and that it was also one of the founders and encouraged the establishment of the Adriatic euro region which has its headquarters in Pula. In addition, it had its own representation in Brussels. In addition, I would like to point out that, in our work so far, we have quite positive experience with European funds in proportion to the amount, and I think in total, I think that we are advocating the withdrawal of money from European funds which they felt very well in the interior of Istria, which has become and recognizable by olivery, wine and some domestic production. We have quite good experience and funds, above all, for civil society and for helping cities to protect the environment. So looking at the Sunday referendum there must be a group of people who have already made their opinion who will vote for it. We have a group of people who are going to vote against, and we have a group of people who want a little deeper analysis to be able to come to a conclusion on this information. Personally, I don't think the time for the referendum was too short, because it's been said that for 20 years, and for the past 7, 8 years, it would be illusory to expect that what has failed in those ten years to know that it can somehow be convinced of the last maybe to extend the week to two days. Information on the accession of what awaits us in the European Union, of course, can be at the level of any predictions as well as any one of them can be based on stronger information to speculation. However, as a lot of them have already pointed out, I particularly believe that from, say, indicators that are slightly higher, and some slightly less measurable, one indicator that may not have its own measure through GDP, employment, etc. It's very important, and that's the fact that we're part of Europe. We have always been a part of Europe, our history is about Europe, but not just historical events. If we go around in this House we will find statues of Boskovic, etc. scientists who have stamped the great seal on the development of Europe. We have Nobel laureates and we are completely equal to all the other parts of Europe, and I think our place in Europe should have been long ago, not waiting another year and a half. This date that should be held I think it's the end date, because I hope for a positive outcome. But after that, in this year and a half until we enter Europe, we all hope that it will be the first of July 2013, there will be an even bigger job for the last finish, so as not to lose power on that final finish for those changes that are important and that will help us to get into Europe with the best possible results. So as far as the economic indicators are concerned, I think this has, unfortunately, created a negative climate at the moment because of the problem in Europe. We see what's going on in Greece, etc. And then it takes very little so that someone can tie up the fact that there is a crisis in Europe with us entering Europe going into a crisis. We are already in crisis and the question is, would this crisis be less if we were in Europe? We see, however, that some countries that drag this Europe forward are trying to help countries in the crisis, and we hope that this is how we could be involved. So looking at certain indicators I wouldn't now go to each individual as I said we could have certain models of what kind of predictions it would be. Among other things, there was also a question of what awaits us. In my department of economics, we have a research office where teachers are, say, Skara, etc. published one article and in a situation where the crisis has already begun in 2010, 2011 the cost of joining the Union because each, therefore, the outcome which is the initial shock regardless of whether it is plus or minus. However, the cost of entering the Union is definitely much less than the cost of staying outside the Union. As said, the entry into the Union will reduce the price of money. This directly withdraws in order to increase investment, increase market space, increase probably imports, but we will also have opportunities for larger exports. And that gap between imports and exports should definitely be reduced. Furthermore, we expect unemployment to decrease, but as I said earlier, we need to see which sectors and how it prepares for entry especially in the last year, for a year and a half, we hope it becomes as painless as possible for the transition. Although the most talk about the economy is, I think it's just a third point. I think the most important thing is that by entering Europe, we gain one democratic stability, so that it is obtained in one legal state and legal certainty, and only after that comes one economic stability and we hope for growth or at least a minor decline than it is now. As I say, I am very pleased to see, however, that there is a positive attitude towards entering the European Union from most of the debaters here. As far as I'm concerned, I'm afraid that date has come a few years too late. We've always been about to be before. And I hope that citizens will still take this opportunity to see each other in Europe and that what is now listed as a loss of sovereignty, which is for a country like ours that has achieved it through work very important. But if we talk about the economic part of sovereignty and that the state is sovereign in the way you can manage yourself, as some have already said, we already have banks in other people's property and some kind of strategic industry. So, it could be said that we have a lot of what we think is negative already, and that positive part where we could, however, decide in that Europe, of course, proportional to its size should be achieved just by entering the European Union. Once again I say I am in favour and I call on the citizens to support 22nd entry into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1742	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The following has been reported for the debate on this subject by a respected representative, Giovanni Sponza. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1743	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies, here we are only a few days away from the referendum through which the citizens want to decide on the future of Croatia, which both geographically and historically belongs and part of it already belongs to Europe, and I personally believe that it will soon become political. It falls among citizens who have always felt it to the citizens of Europe and I am sure that many in Croatia have been embarrassed by why some countries have become full members of the European Union before and before. Maybe at that time we didn't have the right and the right picture of our values and our resources because we were obsessed with war recovery, economic recovery, but also some particular lobbyes and individual interests were further away than integrated into the Union. In these two decades of democracy in Croatia and our idea of the EU has passed a kind of evolution. And over the past 20 years, a lot has changed, both in Croatia and in the EU. The EU was previously referred to as an oasis of success, and today the EU faces a difficult financial challenge. The differences between the European countries that have led to this crisis were neither the economic nor the cultural nature of these countries but the consequences of the action of certain interest groups which unfortunately put their interests ahead of national and European. In Croatia, in the last 20 years, we have unfortunately learned on our skin what only narrow and intimate interests can make from the country and it is good that we started to remove these syndromes from ourselves. And right at this complex moment, the space for Croatia's EU integration opens up, which gives us a whole new direction, so I can say to myself, a slightly childish vision of Europe where we should have been automatically guaranteed by a new better future. I therefore believe that we need to recognize and manage this moment wisely. What does Croatia bring to Europe? Europe will receive one of the most valuable and beautiful European spaces with Croatia, but above all Croatia, which is today a guarantee of stability and peace in this part of Europe. We are in a significant geographical position which is of great economic importance to the EU. Given its natural characteristics, Croatia represents a wealth and a high degree of conservation, which means exceptional value not only in European but also in global terms. However, Croatia's chances in the EU are also opening up. Croatia's outstanding geostrategic position with responsible and strategically designed management is a great advantage. There are numerous areas where we are experienced and ready to try out on a new market, from water exports, small shipbuilding, wood industry, fishing industry, organic food production. Croatia has natural resources, water, sea, forest, untapped agricultural land. It is up to us to draw up a strategy, set clear and sustainable rules and finally start working in Croatia and put a number of unused resources and potentials into function of economic growth and development, not to think about selling them. Because it's our guarantee of a better quality of life. The new assembly of the Croatian government committed itself to strong economic growth based on the creation of new values, the launch of a creative cycle, the resolution of inherited problems, effective state spending, decentralisation. I am aware that, with all good intentions, there is no easy mandate when it comes to the protection of public goods and public interests which are, by definition, good that is not excluded and which must remain available to all. That is why we are also able to be a competitive partner who knows and values its values where we are driven by the dynamics of long years of transition. Under such conditions, there is an opportunity for us to enter the space of knowledge in which our children will also be able to educate themselves according to European standards and conditions because most countries, not only in the EU but in the world, are building their development strategy on intellectual capital as a fundamental competitive resource. That is why I believe and expect that Sunday our approach will be much more mature because over the past years we have matured as a society of democratic, political and social. Over many years, European integration has brought indeed various advantages to the EU countries, the benefits which are now unfortunately forgotten in light of the current and existing crisis. Personally, I do not think it would be good for Croatia to remain an isolated island, that Croatia should accept the chance, that we should look into the truth, that we should face the challenges and that we know how to turn these challenges into our advantages. And that is why I call on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to come out on Sunday 22nd for a referendum and vote ZA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1744	Thank you very much. Mrs. Melita Mulic is a parliamentary representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1745	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have been discussing the benefits, the challenges of Croatia's entry into the EU all day long. In that sense, I would not be longer, but I will really look at two extremely important areas in the sector, areas of development that are politically important, which are also very illustrative, and I can also serve to deny some of the Eurosceptic allegations that we have here today as well as the doubts we have. So it's about protecting the environment and it's about energy, which is one of the backbones of the new Zoran Milanovic government. When it comes to environmental protection, therefore one of the basic Croatian advantages that we have, one of the competitive advantages is clean air, water and soil. Let us not forget that when it comes to environmental protection, we have adapted our legislation for a long time, or we have received a number of transitional periods. This is the area where we should have adapted ourselves in one way or another to around 300 European directives. No matter what, no one prevents us from running an autonomous environmental policy. This is precisely what the new Environmental Protection Act is talking about. This area is going to cost us, and it's going to cost us 10 billion euros over the next eight years. Of course, we have certain resources at our disposal. The funds from the Cohesion Fund, the funds from the Structural Funds and, of course, we will use our own resources, and of course we are opening up investment space. That 10 billion euros, what will they be invested in? To improve water treatment. Water management connections in the Republic of Croatia are around 43%, in the EU 80%. Do we want to be part of that club? I think so. In improving water supply, 30% of these funds so when we divide these 10 billion, so of 5 billion 30% of the resources would go to improve water supply. The rest would go to air protection and ground protection and waste management. When it comes to energy, today she mentioned herself in part. Croatia is a net energy importer. When there is liberalisation and integration of the energy market we will be in a completely different position, so our dependence will be reduced in this respect because we will be sitting at a negotiating table where we will be able to decide on energy as well, and when it comes to the strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, it is foreseen that in the next 8 years it has spent another 15 billion euros. Where did these funds come from? Of course from the Structural and Cohesion Funds. When it comes to the usability of funds, only finally, in this area of ISPA, so those projects that were agreed by the end of 2011 were almost and fully made usable for that allocation which was from 2007 to 2009. So we need a little patience to see that we've done a lot and that we can really do it. If we were wondering if we had an alternative, we have a safe but none better than this. If we have the challenges, if we're going to have the costs, we'll have them, but we have to use them. That is why I really, therefore, expect and believe that there will be great support for Croatian citizens in the referendum Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1746	Thank you very much. Ms Sandra Petrovic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1747	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Today in the Parliament, we talked a lot about this, about the reasons why Croatia should join the European Union, so I don't think much of it needs to be repeated. It might be good to convey some of the Union's impressions on Croatia and say a few words about why Croatia should join the European Union or why the European Union supports our entry into their society. Whoever in any way and at any level was involved in the process of accession negotiations with the European Union or observed it on the side will know that this process took place quite dynamically and uncertainly even though it was long-term. This relationship, as they called it the relationship between carrots and beatings, was just as crucial in harmonising legislation, in meeting legal standards, standards of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, issues of public subsidies and many other chapters that required not only technical harmonisation but experiential proof of meeting the criteria for closing chapters. It has been difficult for some in Croatia to accept the fact that negotiators from Brussels or Strasbourg have returned home each time with new criticism or homework On the other hand, our future Europarliamentaries such as Hanness Freedom or Glanis Wilmot will agree that every time they remain caught up in the amount of enthusiasm that Croatia has invested in these negotiations and that Croatia has made huge progress through these negotiations. Neither they nor their counterparts or members of the commission or council ignore the fact that Croatia was under the permanent increase of the European Union because the only one had candidate country status and all phases of negotiations went by itself and was therefore in a difficult position. The focus was not on several candidate countries at the same time as it was in 2004 and 2007. Today, when we are finally entering the finish line of this race and there is still a confirmation of our country's accession to the referendum, we are facing a rather aggressive campaign of opponents of the European Union through the media, Facebook, Tweeter and other social networks. These opponents, in my opinion, are trying to instill fear in the bones of voters from something completely unjust, for which we have worked together since the declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia, even before. I would like to remind you that in 1988, the New Fossils sang in a popular song "Comes to the Sea to spend the summer together", a few years later Italian singer Toto Cotonou sang the song "In Sieme" and just dedicated that song to us by providing moral support just when she needed it. In parallel with the song, the Member States did so with the recognition of our country. I think that is enough evidence of our long-term and close relationship with the European Union which requires us to agree to a referendum to legalise this relationship now that both sides are ready and up to it. We have chosen the European way and we consider ourselves Europeans and I think now is the time to show all seriousness in this intention by a confirmatory response to the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1748	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1749	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me get involved in this debate. Today we have been discussing the problem of Croatia's accession to the European Union, which is ultimately organised in connection with the upcoming referendum. I would like to say immediately that today I will debate here, I would say in a double capacity, I will debate as a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, a political party that has long ago, in 1989, defined and clearly put into my work programme and activities an independent Croatian and Croatian member of Euro-Atlantic integration, the Croatian member of the NATO Union and a member of the European Commission at that time, which was the case today of the European Union. I also want to speak here as a former member of the government, and a minister who was directly in charge of implementation and negotiations for three very sensitive, very important and very important chapters. This is Chapter 11 of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chapter 12. Food safety and veterinary phytosanitary protection and Chapter 13 of Fisheries. I would like to stress that these were very demanding chapters, that these chapters, which were in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, were related to almost half of the laws and regulations common within the European Union and that, before the Ministry of Agriculture, there was an extremely demanding job. The very fact that we had to bring in almost 40 legal acts that we had brought in almost 500 sublegal acts, means the implementing rules speak of the very engagement of the people who worked on these processes. I must also point out that through the negotiating process through the negotiating positions that also the main thing in Chapter 11 was 37 of the specific requirements, the requirements that speak of the specificity of Croatian agriculture and for which our negotiators have tried very hard to fight. But dear friends, when we talk about negotiations, then I must also say that our negotiators were not the ones who listened to the orders of the people in Brussels and carried it out. Finally, none of them asked or negotiated when it comes to our saying they would never go in the direction of imposing certain wishes, requirements and EU views, but they have always gone towards the current level of achieving certain activities in the Republic of Croatia. And thanks to the leadership, I would say agricultural policies to policy-making and to increase incentives and support in agriculture, our negotiators have managed to achieve extraordinary achievements when we talk about agricultural negotiations. I could talk for a long time, I believe I don't have that much time, but also let me say some of the most important things about the area of agriculture. I believe that the most important thing that has been achieved through the negotiations has been certain financial envelopes. The financial envelope for direct payments is 373m euros, then an additional financial envelope for the mined land of 9.6m euros, an additional wine envelope of 10.8m euros, a financial envelope additional for the regulation of the market 30m euros, then for rural development measures 333m and from the 30m-euro fisheries fund available to Croatian fishermen to implement structural measures. When we add it all together, we get up to 786m euros or almost 6 billion euros. When we combine this with the financial resources available to Croatian farmers from the national budget, which is that we have reached cca 3.5 billion kuna, it shows that financial envelopes and financial charges will be made available to farmers who will be significantly larger or almost twice as large. Of course, this will not be shared by automation mainly not by rural development measures. A significant position for which our farmers will have to make little effort to fight and to be users of these measures. But I also want to say here clearly and loudly that some things in agriculture as well as in other segments of life must be changed, that we too must make certain contributions, that we must work on ourselves, that we must strengthen from lifelong learning to education and all the counseling that is necessary and that there will be no problem at that time for those resources at our disposal to come true. And that is why dear friends here I want to say that I am convinced that Croatia's entry into the EU is something that is extremely important and something that is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. And let me also at the very end to say what I would like to say to the Madam Minister, and please pass it on to Mr. Prime Minister and the other members of the Government, I would like to stress here, I ask that the people who have done a great and demanding job, who have worked in the ministries to preserve their positions because they have proven themselves by work, they have proven themselves to be able to carry out the hardest I would say decisions. I also have to say that I don't understand whether it's from political or non-knowledge and some things that aren't true, which are being presented where it's wanted to be shown that the past council of the ministry left some skeletons in the closets and some cca 700 million kuna is mentioned. I am ready and I also said that in the addition of a colleague who succeeded in giving me specific explanations to answer questions and all clarifications, but you must also be aware and know that a system of support has been replaced by a new system, that the reforms of the incentive system have been carried out and that I can answer all questions, I am at my disposal. But let me finally say that I am extremely proud that as a member of the Government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor I was able to make one contribution to the conclusion of these negotiations. And that's why I'm taking this opportunity to invite all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to come to the referendum first and foremost. It's their right to define themselves, but I invite them to go to the election. And of course I also use the opportunity for all those who think we have done a good job of voting for Croatia's EU entry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1750	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by Mrs. Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1751	Thank you very much. Well, I'm going to correct an incorrect quote by Mr. Cobankovic who said about it, and the EU hasn't imposed anything on us, we've negotiated all this. So here's this article from the Washington Times will be denied, which came out on 26.11.2011, which says "The current EU agreement is a dagger aimed at the heart of Croatia's national sovereignty and economic independence. It's literally a sale of land for nothing. Croatian fishing and the agricultural sector will be decimated. The economic belt in the Adriatic Sea is estimated to have a huge potential for oil beds and natural gas is left to Buxelles. Exports of wine will be mutilated, and its fiscal policy will be subordinated to the EU's bureaucrats. In short, Croatia will become a political subject."
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1752	Thank you. We've got a replica, Mrs. Djurjka Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1753	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Minister. Our Minister of Agriculture, whom all farmers and all of Croatia will remember, as well as all our negotiators, will indeed be remembered, because Croatian agriculture has prepared to join the EU to the greatest extent possible. Well, I'd just like to add Mr. Cobankovic, which is that you're in these financial envelopes, of course, there are still 98 million in financial envelopes that are meant for demining land. We know what that means and that's what she cared about. And that the Croatian Government and the Ministry were also prepared and taken care of how they would prepare and introduce agriculture and agricultural producers is that we have also coordinated legislatively and institutionally. That means we have the paying agency now, and we have the ARCOD. ARCOD is a very important system of land particles identification. So all those who deal with agriculture and all those involved and all the chiefs, the mayors and everyone else who participate in it know what that means. And it was up to all of us, I know personally, and I wasn't even a representative in the Parliament yet, but in my work I worked very hard to get farmers and with the help of the ministry of course, a series of lectures were in preparation for the entry into the European Union, and so also now. So I'm just going to do one little example I'm talking about, but even with one beautiful one, they're beekeepers, I always mention them. I think it is a large Croatian beekeeping association that has prepared and prepared its bees and has prepared us all together to join the European Union. Today, we proudly have our own Croatian honey, but they are equally in line with all European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1754	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Cobankovic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1755	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yes, that is right, Croatia has done a large part of I would say legislative adjustments with the legislation or acquis of the European Union, but Croatia also had to build institutions that would implement this legislative framework. And as part of this, it is important to stress that this was one of the criteria for closing Chapter 11, that Croatia managed to build the Payment Agency. But what's even more important is that within the Agency it was built by the IACS so-called. the integrated administrative control system and the component of the IACS ARCOD, ARCOD which would have said a list of cadastral particles. It was an extremely demanding job. All agricultural land particles have been identified in the ortho photo footage and identified who they are who process that agricultural land. In this way, it was almost minimally possible for certain abuses, and it is important to stress that through such systems it has increased and monitored and controlled the payment of incentives, that it is the same or consistent as in other Member States of the European Union and that this will also make a significant contribution to the incentives towards those most needed and who, in accordance with the Monetary Encouragement Act, have the right to achieve them. These are the achievements that are very important for Croatian farmers. Croatian farmers were informed and over 50 were held either the stands or round tables where they sought to inform Croatian farmers about all the negotiations activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1756	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Tonino Picula, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1757	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers of Foreign and European Affairs. So here's the risk of repeating a lot of what my colleagues have already said today in this high-quality and all-day debate, I would limit myself to a few of my own impressions, and I mean the fact of interest in this debate. So certainly this debate today is another one in a series of announcements of the eighth largest enlargement of the European Union in its history and only another in which Union membership will be extended to only one country. Remember well, respected colleagues and colleagues, that Croatia is the first country to take a bid to join the European Union in this century. No country has previously applied for membership in the Union with a single currency introduced and increased to 27 members. It is important to be aware that no process of multilateral integration is non-conflict, and the integration of European states into the European Union is nevertheless a process without a historical precedent. May 1st could be marked not only as an international Labour Festival but also as a holiday for the enlargement of the European Union. I remind myself of that date in 2004 that as many as 10 countries entered the European Union at the same time. A significant number of citizens of those countries before joining the Union were in the same situation as we are today. A large number of those countries' citizens feared the general accumulation, unfair competition of strong economies from the West, the sale of the country to foreigners, the loss of sovereignty, at the end and identity. The most concerned in the European Union was the most in Poland, which among all those admitted during that major enlargement was the most later profited. And our euro story was particularly complicated because it prepares for the submission of candidacy, negotiations and their conclusion did not lead to the usual routine of receiving new members, but rather in the shadow of the growing debate on the functioning and future of the European Union itself. The Union should be convinced that Croatia will not export problems with its candidacy, but rather, that it will represent added value to the Union itself. But the perception of the European Union has been gradually changing in our country, from the initial Europhoria, through the occasional strong Eurosceptics, to this day I think of the prevailing Eurorealism, or the ever more sober assessment of our citizens as they get, and how much they possibly lose by membership. In my opinion, membership in the European Union is a life insurance policy and it is a good life insurance policy in a very conflicting process of globalisation. The Union is one of the most successful examples of the continued, comprehensive and gradually developed regional cooperation in the world, and given the most painful places of our too long transition, it is undeniable that the institutions of the rule of law are developing more easily within than outside the European Union. In addition, when Croatia enters its survivors for a year and a half, and newly created companies will enter a 120-fold larger market, and according to the 2009 State Statistics Institute, there are as many as four Member States of the European Union, Italy, Germany, Slovenia and Austria among the first five export partners of our country. With the entry into the European Union, as several colleagues have already spoken today, there is no conclusion on national history, however. Since Croatia and the European Union have at least demanding neighbourhoods, Croatia could optimise its position as a member as a mediator and advocate of Europe that will not become the Union for some time. Croatia is the only European country and the only future member of the European Union that directly connects the Mediterranean and the Danube with its territory. The Croatian negotiating know-how acquired during the demanding negotiations can be excellent export software because it is important to be needed, not just meet the criteria. Today, when the European Union is crucified between integration and dissociation processes, Croatia should do everything it can to ensure that the centrifugal forces of possible structural adjustments of the European Union in this crisis do not shut us down in a more passive manner. the second class of Member States. Generally speaking 55 years after its establishment, the Union must decide how to respond to the crisis with a visionary new community or by assembling to a limited community of asymmetric partnerships. The Wall Street Capitalism crisis also affected the situation in the European Union. The state of prosperity characteristic of many European countries has been gradually withdrawing for a good thirty years before so-called. a neoliberal model. This model promotes financial profitability at the heart of social solidarity. The global crisis he caused didn't seriously shake his claws. However, attempts to put financial sector control mechanisms on their feet in the European Union. It has always been known that the entry into the Union will require double support from members of the European Union for Croatia's accession, as well as from Croatian citizens to join the European Union. However, membership in the European Union must not be seen by the public as a project of a political elite that will only be formally invoiced to citizens. All individual groups of Croatian societies must receive credible information about what awaits them when the country joins the Union. People don't often fear change, they fear loss. As I consider the upcoming referendum, I hold that the current membership campaign should highlight one message, and it reads: no one is in the European Union and will be left to himself in difficult times. They all share the burden. However, respect should be given to the fact that, between 1972 and 2008, the citizens of 8 countries have made negative statements on European issues even 12 times in the referendums. Contrary to many expectations that our country's entry into the European Union is nearer, it is more votes that oppose it. And it is quite legitimate to ask whether there is an alternative for Croatia to join the European Union. But answer that question positively and explain the answer with firm arguments in my opinion requires much greater effort than the views that reasonly justify our membership. We must not forget that Croatia is waiting for the final exam before joining the Union after the referendum. Namely, the Croatian Accession Treaty must be confirmed in as many as 27 national parliaments. Since the first result of each election and referendum is voter turnout, I hope that our citizens will recognise the importance of their own statement on Sunday. Maybe that'll sound like Mr. President and distinguished colleagues and colleagues as an exaggeration. But I believe that within three days, Croatian citizens decide not only on the future of our country but also on the future profile of the European Union. Why? Because Croatia is determined to enter the European Union regardless of today's burden on the Union with serious problems in the euro zone, functioning and political uncertainty in the immediate neighbourhood. And finally. Joining the European Union for Croatia is the possibility of achieving many times in our recent history of the mentioned project of the other republic. The statehood upgrade process is permeated by European standards, as well as the decommissioning of a form of functioning that has proved to be overgrown, deficitary and harmful over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1758	Thank you very much. And finally Mrs. Vishny Fortuna's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1759	Thank you very much, esteemed president, distinguished minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. In recent years, the idea of social cohesion has been strongly promoted in Europe, which is in fact the desired state of society to which we all seek, the long-term well-being of all our members, the fair approach to all available resources and respect for human dignity is closely linked to the concept of human rights, the fundamental freedom of man founded in the European Social Charter. Social policy as an organised activity of society is a framework for achieving the desired objectives. The European Union is investing heavily in the fight against poverty, against social exclusion, and each member is obliged to monitor and analyse poverty and social exclusion of all its citizens, particularly sensitive groups of women, older citizens, persons with disabilities, national minorities and, accordingly, to take appropriate interventions. The Republic of Croatia as a member of the Council of Europe, given its close integration into the European family, needs to adapt rapidly to European strategic documents all its social policy systems, notably social care, labour, pension, health and education systems. The long-term objectives and priorities of the social policy of the Republic of Croatia should be aligned by 2020 with the objectives of the European Smart, Sustainable and Inclusive Development Strategy and they contain and announce a European economy vision that should result in high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. The fight against poverty and social exclusion remains a key challenge. In order to achieve cohesion, it is particularly important to include impulsive development, which marks the training of individuals to adapt to change despite numerous challenges. The strategy further provides for different policy measures in ensuring and social cohesion, advocates the use of social innovations for vulnerable groups and deprived areas, measures to remove discrimination against people with disabilities and other sensitive groups. Furthermore, measures to improve the sustainability of the pension system and ensure better access to health insurance. In particular, the importance of implementing measures to improve the inclusion of one parent family of persons with disabilities and homeless persons is stressed. Here I would like to remind you that Croatia was a signator of a common Memorandum of Social Inclusion called... since 2007. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This brings the European Commission into line not only with the key challenges that stand in the way of improving social protection and social inclusion, but also with priorities, measures and analyses to be carried out in the process following the signing of the GIMA with the objectives of Croatia's preparation for entry into the European Union. By signing this document, Croatia has taken the obligation to remove poverty and social inclusion problems within the framework of the central national policy. Here I would just briefly like to point out from the key priorities that are covered... I will single out only some that are particularly important for a part of the population that is exclusively represented by HSU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it refers to the expansion of the social services network, especially for children, people of older age and persons with disabilities. Focusing on health and disability prevention and ensuring equal access to all, health services in islands and remote areas, and defining and developing the concept of social housing, agreeing a long-term sustainable solution to the problem of all poor older citizens, monitoring health reform and the special availability of all services to poor citizens and people of older age. The high risk of poverty is faced by households where one parent lives with one or more dependent children, households where two adults or three or more dependent children live. The risk of poverty... is significantly higher than the national average, especially for elderly people who have no pension at all. Addressing the key priorities and challenges of social policy is a prerequisite for the political stability of the Republic of Croatia, and joining the EU also means greater opportunities for their faster and better-quality resolution, and for the benefit of all our citizens. Finally, I would like to remind my respected colleagues and colleagues that this year is a European year of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity and that various events will be held throughout the year, so I would like to invite you and ask you to join us all together at national and local levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1760	Thank you very much. Final word on behalf of the HDZ club Mrs Jadranka Kosor, vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1761	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Here is very short on behalf of the HDZ Club since in the opening letter I mentioned the founder of the HDZ first president, Dr. In the end, let me read two three sentences from his speech, which he gave in the award of peace in Florence on 24 November 1990, thus the Catarina de Medici Peace Prize. Citation: "In the new European order, an equal place can be found for the first time by small peoples because new European architecture creates a space for democracy, security and development for all peoples. The position of small peoples and the recognition of their right to self-determination today is a key European issue, and it is not crucial whether the new European order will have 35 or 45 sovereign states or whether their size is relevant. It is important to create open societies on the European plantings of the parliamentary democracy of the free entrepreneurship of human and ethnic rights. The unity of the world is progressing today, not to the downturn, but to the increasing respect of national individualities." So, it's a quote to back up what I said was in the party's first HDZ programme founded by Dr. Franjo Tudjman's European perspective on Croatia and the Croatian people was clearly drawn. Finally, I would like to say that the HDZ today will contribute significantly to Croatia's progress by 1 July 2013, but certainly also afterwards. And our support for all government moves that will go that way will be unequivocal and complete. Once again, an invitation for all who can make it to the elections, that is to say, to the referendum on January 22nd and to vote for Croatia's future, i.e. Croatia's European future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1762	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the government at the end of Mrs Vesna Pusic, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1763	I thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Indeed, thank you very much to all the clubs and all the MPs and MPs who took part in this debate today. I've been sitting in the Parliament for a long time and I've listened to a lot of debates, but it seems to me that this one was one of the more informed and quality. It was, however, based on a lot of broad consensus, but it still seems to me that only from listening to this debate could you actually see and get a lot of information, and it has also shown that both MPs and MPs have this information. I thought Croatia should be part of the first Eastern European enlargement, and I thought Croatia should become a member of the EU in a big bank big expansion to the east in 2004. Since that proved a little unlikely in time, I thought we could do it in 2007. In 2007, it was less euphoric, in 2004 it was an absolutely euphoric year in terms of EU enlargement both by the Union and by new members. She was euphoric because it was sort of thought to end with her last glacial stake in the heart of the Cold War. This was considered the end of the Cold War in Europe and the last traces of this, in fact, of European long-term accidents and conflicts of low intensity and dictatorships in Europe. We enter at a very different time, we enter a time when there is no euphoria with enlargement in either the Union itself or Croatia in the way it was in the early 2000s and then in 2004 when the first Eastern European countries entered. We go in because of this rationale, in some things we enter more readily because we have been going through the process not only of adjustment but of building a state. We are entering into awareness of the difficulties and the awareness of what Europe means and when it is not the time of an economic takeoff as it was in the first half of the 2000s, but that is why I hope that we are going in with full awareness that the EU or the non-European Union no one will work for us, no one will be fair in our place, no one will know what to do instead, and no one will be able to even know how to lead this country. Therefore, the European Union is certainly not a substitute for our abilities, our qualities and our opportunities but it is, and we have seen it in good times, by the middle of 2000, and in the bad economic times that came after that, it is indeed if we know and know a better chance. The book that I think has the best title I've ever met in my readings is a book called "Using Unfavourable Circumstances". At this point, the whole world is also Europe without further ado and Croatia without further ado in the situation of unfavourable economic or economic or financial circumstances. The difference between successful and unsuccessful is that those who are successful do not cry out that their circumstances are not good enough but know all the circumstances by turning their abilities around by maximizing their own benefit. If we can't build all the railroads of European money, let's build at least the ones we can, if we can't fix everything with the European institutions let's at least do what we can. The rest will always remain with us and our ability to do what is in the best interests of our country and our society under the circumstances. The main feature and I will thank you all for this debate. The main feature that we need here and which we may need to learn here is self-awareness. We're not the smartest people in the world, we're not the most capable but we're not the dumbest or the most incompetent. We have our values, we have our abilities, we have our education, we have our ability to contribute something from our own experience to that union, but under these conditions we need to have high criteria, there must be education, there must be knowledge, and there must be responsibility. Whether we're in the Union or not. And in the Union, we'll have some more opportunities to take advantage of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-19-0.u1764	Thank you, Minister. We're done arguing, I'm closing the debate. You have before you a proposal for a declaration and I, in accordance with the proposals of all clubs of the Croatian Parliament, am voting on the Declaration of membership of the Republic of Croatia on the European Union as a strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find that the Declaration has been accepted by most of the 127 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Congratulations. Thank you, everyone, today I am finishing my work and tomorrow we will continue work at 9:30 with the point Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, good morning, everyone. I warmly welcome you all. And please let us get started. Point 5 of the agenda 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 16 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, as prescribed in Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? I'm calling on the government's representative, Mr. Professor. Rajko Ostojic, Minister of Health. Here you go.
