ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2439	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. At the meeting held on 22 December, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the System of State Administration, establishing as central authorities the Ministry of State, State Office and Government and State Administration, and the Law on the establishment and division of ministries and other central bodies established by the central authorities of the state administration. The Parliament also passed the Law on Republic relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia at the last session in the previous meeting. Given the legislative changes in December 2011, this is one we can call it the technical amendment of the law, but which is important that the office that was established in the previous assembly at the last session of the Assembly could begin to function and thus the Government of the Republic of Croatia expresses its position, readiness and policy to continue to implement the constitutional obligation of special care for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we propose to the Croatian Parliament that it adopt this law so that the office can start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2440	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club and the first to apply for Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go. To inform you, we have so far reported two club representatives and four individual debates. Now he's been changing three clubs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2441	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the introduction, the minister said what led to the adoption of amendments and additions to this law, but even if there is no such thing, it is good that at the beginning of this session of this new Parliament we consider this topic of office creation and even the problem of Croats outside Croatia. It's good to start talking about it right now. Why? Because I myself had a question in the meantime what will now become of this law which will be with the Croatian office outside Croatia now that the SDP has come to power? Malta does not what will happen to Croats outside Croatia now that the SDP has come to power? Nothing I want to say now, and then I said nothing bad will happen to Croats outside of Croatia, it can happen the same or better. Also, this law will not be abolished, and the office will be established. I am sorry that this office has not been established before, however, that the law that regulates relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has not been passed before. We had him if we remembered who we were in the last assembly of Parliament getting benches in the parliamentary procedure and that law was standing in benches for several months to come to debate and adopt only after the end of the last term. It would've been better if we'd brought it back sooner and that office worked a year ago, not to mention before, but when it was legal, it would've been better if we'd done it then. But with the will of the majority at the time, it came to the agenda only after the election's end so that the office could not be established in the meantime. But it's a good thing that we're doing this now and we're going to bring in the days of amending and supplementing that law so that we can establish an office as soon as possible and get the office started on its work. Why are these dilemmas and questions addressed to me about what will happen to the law and what will happen to the office, because there are parts of people dilemmas and fears that something will happen that is not good, which is not in the interest of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia now that the SDP has come to power? Of course, these dilemmas are unfounded, the fears are unfounded because I say the SDP will do whatever is necessary and everything that is possible in the interest of Croats outside Croatia, because our position is such that the care of Croats outside Croatia is not a concern and it is not a job of any particular political party, but it is the obligation of the entire Republic of all citizens and all authorities. And that is why this office should be established as a place of operational implementation of the policy which is here in the Parliament inaugurally and through this law and that through this office is operationally implemented and day to day-to-day care for Croats outside Croatia regardless of which group of Croats it is. Why is that, and why do I think it is, and why is our attitude so? Well, for two reasons. I'm not talking about who's more important. First, what is one normal democratic principle of ours, and that is that all minorities, all citizens, regardless of where they live, in which country, should have all the rights, and especially should be careful that the rights of those who are in the minority are protected, both here in Croatia and in Croatia, as well as those Croats living as minorities elsewhere. It's a basic and democratic principle. We will therefore advocate that all those who are not members of the majority people in Croatia have every right to be protected, but of course also that members of our people living as a minority or as a constituent people, but the smallest people in Bosnia and Herzegovina also have all rights. It is our not only constitutional commitment, but I would say the democratic principle we will insist on. Another reason is that all countries of modern democracy that have a large number of their members living outside the queen, have in a certain way arranged and institutional care for members of their people outside their homeland, outside their own country, so we will certainly do the same. So we aim and strategic interest that Croatia as a regulated state, as a serious and strong care for its people in other countries, regardless of whether they are from any group of Croats outside of Croatia. We have three groups. One is so-called. emigration, people who, in a certain period of history, mostly for economic reasons but there were others, left their country and went somewhere else. The other part are members of national minorities mostly in us nearby or neighbouring countries that live as national minorities, from Slovenia, Austria, Hungary, Serbia, Montenegro, etc. The third group, which is the most numerous, is the indigenous people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats as an indigenous people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are members of the Croatian people, who also have although indigenous people, although the constituent people have serious problems, from constitutional to economic, social, etc. And it is precisely the task of the Republic of Croatia, of all of us, to help each other and third as much as possible, of course, by making sure that we never seek anything more for Croats outside of Croatia than the rights of those should have and others who live with them, but nothing less. So, when it comes to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as the most numerous group of Croats living outside Croatia, we advocate that they be an equal people, that Bosnia and Herzegovina not only is the Constitution but it is also the state and the Croatian people, but also all others, and the other two peoples and that they have no more, but certainly no less rights than the other two people have. I hope that we will be able to consistently implement this policy, and also remove these stereotypes or dilemmas or fears that were at the beginning that something bad might happen to Croats outside Croatia now that the SDP has come to power. Of course not because, I repeat, the establishment of this office which is here by adopting hope today of this law, i.e. the amendment and the addition of the law create assumptions that it is being established, we will ensure that the care of Croats outside of Croatia, wherever they are, is a national concern, that it does not depend on the will of the political party of this party or those when it comes to power, rather than on being systematically arranged and that in this respect we all here, regardless of the party colors, do not differ, that we all feel the same interest to help those of our countrymen living outside the Republic of Croatia. It is not good if the Croats outside Croatia connect or connect with any political party, one or two political parties, because this does not bring good things to Croats outside Croatia, so we place them in ghetto and political colour, and that is not necessary. Croatian society is a plural society, Croatian citizens are in all parties and it is also not good for Croatians outside Croatia to getoise or connect with one political option. I think that taking care of Croats outside Croatia should be the concern of all political parties, that there must be no division in this regard. By connecting a particular political party to Croats outside Croatia, we are not actually doing good for them, but rather helping them. So, I plead for it and yesterday we talked on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia to try when it comes to all the problems involved, whether they should be helped directly here from Croatia or from political, moral or materially, that in this sense there is no division of this between us and that we all support the interests of Croats outside Croatia together, because this is not just our constitutional obligation but to say what I said at the beginning, and the highlight of the democratic principle, which is that we are fighting that all those who are somewhere minority or not most of them are protected, whether they are minorities in Croatia or even if they are minorities outside Croatia and when it comes to the Croatian minority... be protected because it should be our concern as their home state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2442	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2443	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can agree, of course, with what is the final part of Mr Jelusic's speech, but he started with one thesis that seems to me not to stand, which is that I did not know where this law and the care of the Croats would be if and when the SDP came to power. I didn't notice it anywhere, I didn't hear anyone say anything like that, and as someone who led a commission that made up the bill, I can say that from the beginning there was a single performance within the Committee on Croatians outside of Croatia. The reason why it took time to prepare this material is precisely the broad debate the government wanted and spent with representatives of Croats outside Croatia through all diplomatic and consular missions of the Republic of Croatia so that I really don't see reasons for such an introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2444	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Ivica Mandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2445	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of this presentation of the HNS club, I would have to correct my colleague Jelusic. The government of the Republic of Croatia is not only the government of the SDP. It's the government of SDP, HNS, HSU and IDS. Their policy towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is reflected in support of this Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I can regret to say that it's been a long time for this law to come to life. We at the Croatian People's Party club believe that this is the vital interest of the Republic of Croatia to take care of members of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, whether they are in a group of constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether they are minorities in European countries in the environment of Croatia or are emigrants from the Republic of Croatia. So we in HNS believe that the Croatian state has a moral and constitutional obligation to care for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. If in one law that will be passed by the Council of the Republic of Croatia, we, in the CNS, believe that in this law, all political parties that act and who are representatives of Croats in the Croatian Parliament and all citizens must have a unique position on relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. What are the reasons? Just one reason, because if in the Croatian Parliament that decides on the vital interests of both Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia it would be bad to send or send messages about the ununity of the Croatian Parliament. I therefore believe that in the first session of the decision, I feel unanimously that this is the way to continue to work and that we need to come to an agreement on those best solutions where there will be no difference in political views or in policies towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. This is the first time that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia have received a legal foothold on the exercise of their rights and on the matter of action. We believe that it is good and that we can boast that in 22 years, the Republic of Croatia has reached a very high level of their rights in terms of minorities living in the Republic of Croatia. What is the duty of the Croatian foreign policy represented by the President of the Parliament, the President of the Republic and the Ministers of the Republic of Croatia, to demand in bilateral relations with the countries where Croats live from these governments the maximum rights of our minority, which are almost identical with minority rights in Croatia. I think it is also a legal and moral right for representatives of the official policy of the Republic of Croatia to ask our neighbours. Also, the Republic of Croatia has accepted certain international obligations on the matter here specifically on words, it is about Croats as a constructive people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The issue that one of the guardians of the Dayton Agreement and this international treaty, Croatia has agreed to take care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is seeking to recognise and improve the position of Croats and Croatian minorities in the countries in which they live. The Republic of Croatia advocates the equality of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and Croatia strongly advocates that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia preserve their cultural, national identity. In these policies towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Government will, through a newly established office, have the opportunity to know in one place exactly what funds they are and which help all Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian People's Party argues there are no privileged or better treated Croats. For the Croatian People's Party, all Croats outside Croatia are equally expensive, equally important, and we believe that the vital interest of the Republic of Croatia is to take care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. We also accept a law that regulates Croat groups. Croatians constitutional people, Croats minorities and Croats emigrants. I think that's good. Why is it good? Because there are different policies that will improve the position of these groups. The Croatian People's Party will support this proposal and will vote in favour of this proposal to amend the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2446	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Listen, colleagues and colleagues, listening to the presentation of representatives of the previous two clubs, so the SDP club and the HNS club would say that in this matter and problem, everything is really idyllic and that there are no problems whatsoever, that nothing changes, that the Republic of Croatia is indeed leading to the best care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia clearly divided into those three categories. So there are national minorities, so Croats in the countries in the orchestration, so Hungary, Serbia, Montenegro, Austria and Italy, and we also have Croats as a national minority in Macedonia. Furthermore, Croats in emigration scattered around the world. And finally Croatians as an indigenous people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But perhaps those who did not participate or were on the Committee on Croatians outside of Croatia that neither this problem was learned or had certain knowledge, and in terms of performances precisely from all categories of these 3 clearly listed these to say a little praise about how beautiful, idyllic everything is and not so. First of all, it is not like the representatives of Croats are outside Croatia, so they are fully protected and have their rights. We already know that in the last elections, the number of MPs representing Croats outside Croatia has been reduced from 5 to 3. Furthermore, in agreements between the parties before this, to say the quota agreed, there were proposals just Mr. from HNS, Mr. Mandic, right from your party, to be 1 to 2 MPs representing Croats outside Croatia. However, the HDSSB also took part in these talks, and there are witnesses who have been to the talks that it is not exactly 1 to 2 but that it is to be 3 representatives of Croats outside Croatia. Furthermore, it is not only this technical law that sets up the office, it is no longer central but the State Office for Croatians outside Croatia, in which it is technically arranged what it will look like, which will be its part-time work, etc. However, it is much more important that some other laws relating to Croats outside the Croatian offices are so that they do not primarily harm Croats outside of Croatia. It is therefore necessary to amend the existing legislation systematically, starting with the provisions of the Foreign Law, the provisions of the Law on residence and residence of citizens, and then the Law on areas of special state care. That's what, these are areas from which exactly a number of demands, complaints, are listed by our people who are just being classified in these 3 categories. You may not know how many thousands of requests for Croatian citizenship are waiting in some kind of administrative drawer of the ministries, primarily the Ministry of the Interior. Thousands of citizens. It's a problem that bothers these people. To say this, what would ad hoc say, that here we are now setting up an office that will solve all the problems with a magic wand, that there are no problems, that the Croats, why is it mentioned that Croats outside of Croatia should be afraid of this legislative proposal? What's the point of that, anyway? When we are all well - meaning and if everyone trusts us and if we all want what is right for these people. We are clear and obliged, not only to wish but we are obliged under the Constitution to help and help and maintain ties with Croats outside Croatia. The first two exhibitions were just on the verge of believing that nothing was changing and that everything beautiful, beautiful and that this government would not deny any rights and would cooperate with Croatians beyond Croatia. What's with all the persuasion? Or there is some kind of expressed fear of someone, so now it's public here at the Croatian Parliament's pay phone to convince these people that everything else is the same. But by the very fact that the number of representatives, let's diaspora or whatever you want from the Croats outside Croatia, is a clear fact from 5 to 3. The law itself, which sets up the State Office for Croatians outside Croatia, to which it was attached or under whose authority was now added the Emerging Mother of Croatia who acted well, but did not have sufficient legal power for interventions in certain segments. Furthermore, according to information from the Croatian Committee on Croatians outside of Croatia yesterday, members or people of the Board of Croatian Minorities, emigration and the Croatian people in BiH who were formerly in the service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, I don't know now want to change that name, so MVPEI, which was 30 and who had excellent logistics and excellent contacts and opportunities with Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and was, or as you wish, the management worked perfectly and was truly true at the service of Croats outside the Republic. How many now as members of the office, the state office, will be able to work equally effectively? This is questionable because neither the logistics nor the head of the office nor the deputy, etc., is most likely available, will be those who are in charge of these people. I do not doubt the bad intentions and bad faith of those who will be at the head of this state office, but in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration this department or administration has worked well and I know from the direct knowledge of the citizens to which this law applies. I would like to believe that this government, and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as laws that are not yet sufficiently regulated during these eight years of the HDZ government and its coalition partners, will finally be arranged so that to the satisfaction of those here we list as three categories. First of all, when it comes to national minorities of Croats outside Croatia based on reciprocity, because Croatia has really achieved high standards in the protection and rights of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, so if we insist on reciprocity then we would also achieve a much greater right of our people Croats outside of Croatia as national minorities and in the Republic of Serbia where they are cleaved to Bunjevce, Šokce, Croats, and I do not know what kind of Croats are like, or in Montenegro, we know those who are dealing with this problem what is the situation there or in some other countries. For Croats in emigration or diaspora there are major problems precisely in these laws that are not regulated, which is that again I do not list them as the realisation of Croatian citizenship. Very often, here is a direct example that people went with documents abroad to New Zealand, Australia without writing to them in a personal document that was a Croat, so during Yugoslavia there were very often documents in which they did not write nationality or wrote the nationality of Yugoslavia, and now they have a problem with achieving Croatian citizenship because it does not say that you are Croatian. Just one little example. And that's not arranged, Mr. Mandic, it's not as idyllic as you think and as you say here. Therefore, such things need to be resolved without being put in a drawer, because your document does not say that you are a Croat. And there are tens of thousands of them. And we're talking about a demographic collapse, and it's already that a large number of foreigners will come to Croatia, we have our people from abroad and educated people who would come to Croatia but who can't achieve what should be their law. This should be the concern of the State Office as it is now called, the proposal was central, to me it is so nomotechnical, whether it is central or not, but the state office of the state of Croatia and all of us here not only of the Kukuriku coalition that should worry and care about every single problem of Croats that comes from New Zealand, Australia, South America, Germany and then from the nearby environment of Serbia, Montenegro, etc. And it was an obstacle, an administrative obstacle for many to return to Croatia and invest their capital in Croatia, simply administrative measures. I hope, I am and will be for the adoption of this proposal but in good faith that these and injustices and administrative obstacles faced by many Croats and not to talk about Croats in areas of special state care that no one really cares about, it is a disaster because I was in Krnjak and in Okucani it is my County of Brodo-Posaviska where there are Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina who are having a hard time achieving their rights and assistance which both under the Constitution and under the laws would offer the Republic of Croatia to these people. Go to Krnjak and ask them about the problems, go to Okucani and ask them directly about the problems and you will hear the real story. As far as the structure of the state office is concerned, there is nothing to vote on but for, but the problem remains, but I say in good faith that it will move from a dead end no matter what government it is whether Kukuriku or that HDZ should work on it for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2448	Thank you, too. For correcting the incorrect quote first Mr. Ivica Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2449	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Grubisic, has several times made an incorrect allegation. The Croatian People's Party held its position on the issue of the number of MPs but voted in favour of amendments to the Constitution, which specifically states in Articles 3 and 44 on citizens' rights. And on the matter of the state office legally he arranged it the best way possible, I'm not a utopian to believe that just by passing the law that everything was settled. So the law enforcement and the excellent work of the office of this thing that is legally well-conceived can be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2450	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2451	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I would like to correct Mr Grubisic's allegations that this government has reduced the quota for mandates from Bosnia and Herzegovina from 5 to 3. It is not true, we have changed the selection system, the current system has been proportionate, which theoretically meant that given the percentage of voter turnout in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the number of BiH mandates could have been one and 14th. And now we've changed the way we choose, now it's a similar model that talks about three mandates regardless of the percentage of BiH voters coming out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2452	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2453	Mr. President, Mr. Representative Grubisic said on several occasions that previous Club speakers had shown the situation of Croats outside Croatia as idyllic. That's not what they said, it's a correction to an incorrect quote, nor could it be concluded from their exposure. They were just pointing out the difficulties facing the Croats in all three categories of which there were speeches here and called on Special Representative Mandic about the need for a national consensus on the issue of access to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and the way Mr Grubisic spoke by opening up some old stories that can be talked about far and wide...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2454	No, please don't talk about the way, the correction just so.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2455	What he was saying wasn't on the lookout for consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2456	Thank you very much. Mr. Grubisic, I will now tell you again what I have already said several times to everyone, frustrations are always on the other side when a correction of the incorrect quote is used but we all use it and that's it. So it's better to use the replica, but you have the right to correct the incorrect quote. Of course, when it comes to the club and there's no replica, but that's what I'm saying when it can be used. Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, Mr. Representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2457	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club will immediately support this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia with the Final Bill of Law. These amendments stemmed from the need to comply some articles of the law with the State Administration System Act as well as the Law on the property and part-round of the ministries and other central authorities of the State Administration. Therefore, the essence of the Law remains the same by relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. And we therefore want to express our opinion on the integrated text of this law. The National Minorities Club is primarily expressing its great satisfaction that we live in a country that has such a law and I must say a little bit and envy the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia on this law, because most of our home countries from which we originate do not have a similar level of care for us who represent the diaspora of those countries. About members of the Roma national minority who do not have a country of origin, clearly that we cannot even speak in this context. As the key things of this law, we will first of all state Article 4 which says that "Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia are an equal part of one and an indivisible Croatian people". We'd be lucky to be defined by our countries of origin. Article 6 shows that "the care for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is an integral part of the internal and external policies of the Republic of Croatia". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The Republic of Croatia enables the inclusion of Croats in the social and political life of the Republic of Croatia" which is witnessed by our colleagues elected to the 11th electoral unit, so they are working with us in this Parliament as well. Furthermore, the law defines the forms of cooperation and the holders and the cooperation, defines ways of protection and the rights of interest of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in one word leads to complete care for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. In addition to supporting and as we say a little bit and envy this law, we hope and want this law fully implemented. But the National Minority Club thinks this law is not enough. In addition to this law, a greater pain in the better quality and safe life of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and above all in the countries of the region, that we will build Croatian society as equal citizens regardless of national and private membership. Normal things are perfect, but in everyday life, the problem is very much. We must be aware that all the negativity in our society as under the law of connected vessels is passed on and reflected on to the life of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and must be taken into account. Every crossover and non-responsive in time, to the ugly things that happen to members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are a signal beyond the borders of our country that the same or even uglier things can happen to Croats who live there, and above all I think about countries in the environment and the still present reflections of war and the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. Croatia is a country expected to be courteous in the region and serve with an example, especially today when citizens of this country have also supported our entry into the EU in a referendum that ended several days ago. So we're going to have to make extra efforts to make cases like a cover-up attempt when police officers, for example. attack Roma in Karlovac, attempts and statements on unwanted costumes in the BiH tourist season, and tourism in this country accounts for more than 20% of gross national income. A case like what happened in Rijeka, so these ugly things that happen very much in this country, but I'm going to try to apostrophe just to try and wake up and think about them. There was an awful event in Rijeka a few years ago, when in the middle of the city, a man was thrown off a bridge in Rijeka, a man drowned. No one reacted to that for several days, no citizens, no police, no other institutions. Children aged 16 to 17 responded to this, and only later did the investigation work where the culprit was found. And about that event, believe me, I went looking for what a national context or the relationship of the victim and the perpetrator and on that road the signals were so ugly that I stopped, so I didn't want to go any further. Things that just can't happen. We cannot expect that the Croats in Serbia and our fans will normally and risklessly fly the Croatian flags without having to tolerate and react here for years in an adequate way in the scandals that are broadcast through television to the countries of the region, which reads "Kill, Kill, Kill a Serb". So it is simply something that we have to react to or that we have long had to react to in a quality way or by interrupting events or by interrupting transfers or by some public appearances of a large number of citizens because it must simply not be allowed and we need to know that such events reflect on the life of Croats in the region and we need to be aware of that. We must ask ourselves whether we have contributed 1% of what is happening today in Novi Sad or a few days ago or what is likely to happen in Belgrade today. If we are, we must all... so if not by our unresponsiveness or by closing our eyes to problems, we also contribute 1% of the worse condition of our Croatians in the diaspora, we must prevent it and we can and it is in our power. So, by building one European Croatia, we will provide a much safer life for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, including us members of national minorities, but also to provide a better future and security for Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. Our relationship with members of national minorities directly brings positive or negative effects to the lives of Croats living outside this country, especially in the region, and it is simply necessary to respect it. At only one meeting in Pula, I think of local elections at Hotel Histria, and then there was an actual one-out with that "Kill, Kill". Our proposal was accepted there with a round of applause, and I suggest that you accept it here, that this "Kill, Kill" be added to the "Kill" and that the messages of this country go with "Love, Love" and Serbian, and Croats, and Bosniaks therefore simply kiss, love man because above all we are men of blood and flesh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2458	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2459	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's another law that's been passed exclusively because of the passing of laws back-to-back, so when you do something back-to-back then it happens to skip a lot of things, to skip the things that have been discussed before me, except for the HDSB club that isn't in the ruling coalition, from the ruling coalition everyone supports, and everyone stands for it. We're on the board to say so yesterday that this is a committee that has to work on a consensus, on the principle of consensus, because if we don't, then the question is whether this law is going to be passed at all is going to be effective and whether we're going to do something. However, in order to act, as we have already declared, we must remember, in principle, some things from the past and not allow Croats outside Croatia to be often, when someone needs them, a promotional coin. Remember only the amendments to the state budget, then that position for assistance to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina has always been cut several times to give and transfer funds elsewhere. Also, let us not forget what discussions were held when we from the Croatian Democratic Community were about one of the key projects, first of all I am talking about the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is building a university campus in Mostar. We at the Croatian Democratic Community club believe it was one of the key projects for the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because that campus of the only university, because the other universities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is not a question made of what would happen to young Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, where they would look at their future and where they would go to study and usually when people go to study in principle whether through friendly, whether through that professional part and stay more or less there. And in this way, we wanted to send a message, given that Croatian professors from Croatian universities and students of the other three peoples are constitutionally in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a clear message that the Croatian state through assistance to Croats outside Croatia through investment in capital facilities wants to create a new environment, send some new messages. However, it was the politics of only one political party. Or, I'm talking about three reps from the diaspora. Remember the condition and the ultimatum to adopt constitutional changes. We can talk today whatever we want, but the condition for the adoption of constitutional changes was either or you will agree to only 3 representatives from the diaspora or there are no constitutional changes. And that's the facts, that's the truth, and we can't get away from it, and that's what it is. The defenders. Remember '91. when Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croats around the world with Croats from the country side by side defended Croatia. And when you look at the list, it's hard to talk about the list, I'd rather say the names of the dead then you'll see how many defenders from Bosnia and Herzegovina died. However, remember what happened between 2000 and 2003 with their pensions, remember at the time when their pension rights were transferred to Bosnia and Herzegovina, that their pensions were not few percent but several times less than the rights of Croatian defenders in Croatia although these people were practically most of them complete their war route through Croatia. The hospital in Mostar, the hospital... And then the hospital... [[You don't understand.]] I can say the overall Croatian symbol of the Croatian people's struggle for survival in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[You don't understand.]] Well, I guess there's no politician from any political option that wasn't, who didn't want to go to that wartime hospital and... How today, except for one club, we treat that hospital. [[You don't understand.]] If we hadn't built a hospital in Mostar where Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina would have been treated. And the other thing, how we reacted must have been the only time in history when a bank got into one of the tanks not saying at all what was going on at the Herzegovina Bank. It's a matter of profession, it's a matter of competent authorities, but what kind of reaction it was and whether the reaction was real and what we have today. We have a destroyed bank that doesn't exist, but what's very important at that point is that the bank was the only economically regulated area in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the only area where such and such economic activities were, that something was happening, that something was working. With the shutting down of the Herzegovina Bank, the small economic tiger tied up by Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina also collapsed. Some of the things that happened when it was seen that there was nothing to talk about I wouldn't want to talk about because I think those are the things that remained in the institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying all this? So for a simple reason, tomorrow when we discuss the state budget then those positions in the state budget where it is said about helping Croats outside Croatia not only to look at the position of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina but also to other Croats where national minorities are, I mean in Serbia, etc., but not to look at such a way that these funds are too large but also through the Chamber of Commerce and through other economic operators trying to strengthen the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina where the Croats are. Because look, they wanted us to or didn't want to admit our troubles were where the Croatian border was on one side and on the other hand practically ethnically clean, and today there are no Croats in most of it because they didn't come back. Croatian plant, Bosnian plant is empty. The central Bosnia where the Croatian kings once tabled is practically half empty. And when you look at the '91 census. And look at him today, then you'll see that it just doesn't have anything to do with each other. But if we want to talk about the return of Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina and help, after all, it is in a certain way our constitutional obligation, then let's not make that mistake we made in Croatia about returning exiled and refugees, that we first made houses and then jobs when they arrived. Let's do a reverse process, through the businessmen who have succeeded in Croatia, who have made a big business in Croatia to help make this reverse process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, two things I consider the survival of Croats not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also in Australia and New Zealand are two things very important, it is cultural heritage and the Catholic Church. Because if the Croats hadn't nursed their cultural heritage, they'd probably have that cultural identity of Croatia, and many of you may not even know that the women in central Bosnia had a tattoo on their wrist for a simple reason to distinguish because the folk costumes were very similar to that of other peoples. Also around the world, Croats who have gone for political, economic reasons and stayed there are fostering their cultural customs and should be helped to cultivate it. We can also treat the Catholic Church in one way or another. Had it not been for the Catholic Church, the question is what the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina would have been like. And today, when you look at the Banja Luka area that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not given the bishop any money for certain economic projects, it is a question of whether some Croats would return. And I can always count it that way. And all of this I am talking about positive and negative experiences from past times for the simple reason that we, as parliamentary representatives and members of the Committee on Relations with Croats outside Croatia, are thinking and thinking differently in future times for the simple reason that these Croats who settled down in Croatia, too, and also that I tell Croats outside Croatia, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia where perhaps the most we talk about Croats in Kosovo is practically difficult and speaking because there is very little left, that we treat them in a different way, that when we do and bring a certain budget, that those few millions we give for culture, for education, for health, etc. We do not view it as charity, but rather look at it as something that is a duty and a duty to help us and to give. And if we behave like that, then this law and this office will make sense. If we don't act that way then this law and this office will be a dead letter on paper, and these people will unfortunately behave as they do. And I still want to say something for the end. It is not right and fair to say when on one historic day for the Republic of Croatia in all media that Croats outside Croatia were not interested in the referendum. That's just not true. Remember how many polling stations we have abolished, and then on the basis of that, let's look at their interest or their lack of interest in the referendum. We are responsible for this indifference, because we have not given them the opportunity to have space to vote on this referendum. Because be sure, if anyone cares that, of course, other than Croatians in Croatia, Croatia becomes a member of the European Union, then it is for Croats outside Croatia. First of all, I am thinking of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because by the time Croatia becomes a member of the European Union, neither will they be able to ball exactly as anyone wills. Thank you very much. The Croatian Democratic Club will of course support... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2460	I thank my colleague Shuker. So we're done discussing clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate. First, a distinguished representative, Tanja Vrbat, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2461	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers. We are discussing this short, technical law that harmonizes this Act, the whole law on Croatian relations in the Republic of Croatia with our diaspora, and it is really about technical changes and compliance with the new system and structure of the body of the state administration. I am very pleased that this debate began and ran at the beginning in a concillating tone despite some of the colleagues who had strayed a little. I'll try to get back to him. I would like to say on this occasion on this sensitive topic of relations between us in the Republic of Croatia with Croatians and citizens of the Republic of Croatia outside of the Beautiful few of our things that stand in my heart. This topic has been exploited many times in our political public, it has been brutally manipulated, played on low passions, and I believe that the time for such a policy is behind us. We often mention a constitutional provision that binds us to our fellow citizens and countrymen from abroad, but I will read it, perhaps a little calms down the passions that some are trying to restart. Our Constitution says in Article 10: "The Republic of Croatia protects the rights and interests of its citizens who live or reside abroad and promotes their ties with the Homeland. The Croatian people's homeland in parts of the Croatian people in other countries is guaranteed special care and protection of the Republic of Croatia." Following this constitutional provision, I believe that none of us in the Republic of Croatia have the right to own these citizens and countrymen. It's something that's completely unacceptable to me, and unfortunately it's been happening too often. I really think it's time to break up with that practice. This is what I'm saying, maybe it's a little emotional, because I'm really in the last six. The Croatian congregation has learned to appreciate and understand. I would like to say that, as a member of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, I took part in the work of this Committee in an open and honest way. I would like to thank Dr Ivan Bagarić, who, by his personal contribution, has made a great contribution to the fact that we have been working in this Committee on a consensus basis, and we have been building consensus on this Law both in the first and second readings. We, as a SDP club, were then in favour of this bill because it was really necessary to bring this topic down into one whole law and to categorize and regulate our relations in the country with our fellow Americans outside. And the purpose is not to have one of us pick up political points within Croatia, but to relate in terms of better functionality and to put the citizens living outside the country into office of the improvement of the Republic of Croatia. Let's not forget Croatians outside the country are not only Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who deserve of course special attention, but many prominents in the world of Croatian origin or citizenship that contribute and could contribute even more to us in Croatia, I consider in economic terms, in improving diplomatic relations, and who are already doing a lot to preserve our tradition, culture and cultural heritage. A fellow Shuker mentioned the Catholic Church, which I certainly believe was huge and has and will have a huge impact on promoting, say, this Croatianism and our identity in the world. But I have to say something personal here. I believe that the Croat can be without being Catholic and that there is no religion or any faith, and I think it's time to start thinking that way. This consensus that we held in our Committee, and I am also a member in this assembly of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, it was not often transmitted at the plenary sessions of the Croatian Parliament, especially when they were in the time of Croatian television. A fellow Shuker expressed such a wish yesterday after a situating session, and I want to sincerely believe that it will work and try to build a consensus. Our peoples are out of the country, not to be particularly stressed, they played a great role in the very creation of our statehood, and they have as I have said, a huge influence in the world. Many of them also contribute to the reputation of our homeland, the maintenance of Croatian language, culture, tradition and in many other ways. Today, I believe that when the number of representatives of our diaspora in this House is fixed to 3 and the Constitution has arranged a way of voting our diaspora in the elections in the Republic of Croatia, I believe that we can really cross these topics and turn to the operationalisation of the provisions of this law which was certainly necessary and which was modelled by similar laws in other countries of Europe. And I'm personally very pleased that we finally have him. Of course, it is not perfect, but it does not need to be substantially changed and it is already expressed on behalf of the SDP club intent, and other clubs "Kurkuriku coalition" that this law will no longer fundamentally change, perhaps just operationally elaborate on the application of, say, this CRO Card or Croatian card designed for the case of our compatriots living in countries that do not allow double citizenship so that they are in some way able to prove by that card that they belong to them, that they are related to the Republic. The Republic of Croatia's connections with its citizens and countrymen abroad are strong and we need to put them in a position to improve all of us who live in this country or who are displaced around the world. The times are very mature and I hope that we will all work in the best faith that we leave behind some of the topics that are thickly chewed in our political public because I repeat, no one has the right to own in any way our citizens and our countrymen abroad. I once again express this opportunity my personal will in this regard and I know that it is worth repeating for the entire Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2462	I thank my colleague, Vrbat. I shall inform you that in 10.38 minutes, Article 207(2) shall comply with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. So we have eight more speakers reported. In this debate, colleague Tanja Vrbat, we have one correction to the incorrect quote and two replicas. Correction of the incorrect quote, colleague Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've said that with relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in recent times it's been brutally manipulated and it's targeted at low passion. That's incorrect. Well, they're not low passions respecting the constitution, so the relationship to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is a constitutional category. And the other thing that's important is to say, so it's necessary to confirm by doing what's said. Many times our colleague Bagarić is an honor who sat here to do more than a hundred words that are said, and here today we all swear to a consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2464	Replica, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2465	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vrbat, I think you've misused and told us about the role of the Church in the diaspora, and even in BiH, which you say only takes care of Catholics, so those Roman Catholic religions, not those with other worlds. That's not true. That's not true at all. Contacts, assistance and everything else to all Croats, regardless of whether they are agnostics, atheists or others, is the role of the Church, which it is absolutely certain to perform. I just remind you that in 1995 after Serbs from Krajina left, as you would like to say Serbs, Orthodoxs, atheists or non-atheistics, the agnostics in Banja Luka were found in the Bishop Komarica and the assistance of Bishop Komarica. This should be spoken of and spoken out loudly and openly. So this diaspora church of ours, and here is BiH, who is being assisted by Caritas BiH? To all BiH citizens, not only Catholics or Croats, atheists and agnostics, but also Bosniaks, or Muslims, Orthodox and all others. You can't talk about the church's role in the diaspora like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2466	Another replica, the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2467	Yes, my colleague, Vrbat, kept talking about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia living outside the borders. So, neither does this law speak of citizens, it speaks of Croats and Croats living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. So this law refers to Croats living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. In the first row, it focuses on the Croats living in BiH, which we just heard from previous statements, that the treaty in previous amendments reduced the number of MPs, so the Croats. And when it comes to the role of the Catholic Church was invaluable and remains in the history of the Croatian people in BiH, invaluable and crucial in the survival of the Croatian people in BiH over the centuries, and today it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2468	We'll also hear a reply to the replica of counsel Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2469	Thank you. My dear colleague, I believe that you have not listened to me very carefully because I have at least tried to repeat our fellow citizens and countrymen throughout the debate because I know very well that there are non-citizen Croats and I have just said that for them certain institutes such as CRO Card have been designed because they do not allow double citizenship in their countries, so they cannot be citizens or do not want to be citizens, but are of the origin of Croatians. Certainly this law contributes to the development of the best relations between us in the country and us abroad by having just reduced to categories and clearly distinguished different categories of our citizens and citizens in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2470	We will now hear the debate of the esteemed representative, Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2471	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to you before I start, I have a question for Mr. Secretary. It says the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is being established, so I wonder if there will be an immigration office in that office, will these people be able to get information when they arrive? Because this card you're offering, it's a little embarrassing to tell you. Because those people who come from outside they have money, they can afford it, but they need a nice word where someone will welcome them and tell them what's going on and what needs to be done, where they need to be. I am now collecting the names of all the people who have moved to Croatia, who have returned to their countries because they simply couldn't survive here, not because they didn't have money, but because of bureaucracy. And when you're a month old, then two and six, you're doing the paperwork, then your movie breaks down and you come back from where you came from. I have experience in this because I lived outside for 25 years, and I know when I came back with my kids how long it took me to get all my kids' papers for school. They walked me from the counter to the counter, and when we get there, they finally say you don't need it here because you don't have the right papers. Is it hard to have an office where people will come to sit down, talk, get all the information they need which papers and what. This means a lot to people because don't forget these people are bringing their capital, these people didn't come to the coat of arms of Croatia. So, they want at least one nice and dignified way for Croatia to welcome them. As far as you're concerned, the outsiders are proving that we've reduced the representatives to three. Look, we have eight minorities, we have three MPs of the Serbian national minority, 4.5 million Croats living outside and we have three MPs. And from 124 polling stations in BiH reduced to 4. Is it not fairer to say that you will not vote? We will not vote on you, whether it is fairer. In Vancouver you cannot vote, in Toronto and Ottawa you can, Vancouver is 5 thousand kilometers away from Toronto, why Croats in Toronto or Ottawa are privileged, and other Croats are not. Also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, either we treat all emigration wrestling equally or we end it, let's tell people what we expect them to know so that people who come here are aware of what's happening to them and how they're going to behave. We have a man who came to Dubrovnik who wanted to invest $10 million in Canadians, if someone was interested in me later, I'll say his name and last name, the man spent a month walking down Dubrovnik, they drove him for a month he lost $100,000 and he said it wasn't my fault that I lost it but I had almost a heart attack. He had four sons, wanted to open a business in Dubrovnik to make his sons love Croatia, to start coming, to come back and never to come again. So if we need it, then other nations will come to us and buy hotels and then our people will have to speak their language in their own country. We don't care about that, but we don't mind if our outsider comes in and wants to invest. Why? We're jealous maybe, maybe they bring ethics to a different business and a different city. In the previous assembly, there was much talk about the law and there was a lot of arguments and the opposition had many objections then and the opposition was promised that its proposals would be incorporated into the Final Bill on the Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. When comparing the proposal for a law on relations with Croats outside which it was established in the first reading in the Final Proposal of this Law, it is clear that the criticisms and proposals of the former opposition are not taken into account in the drafting of the final draft law. The opposition boycotted the parliament's last session and the Final Bill passed unanimously with 77 votes. After the Law was adopted on behalf of the Government, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior proposed a new Law on Foreigners and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship which lays down provisions contrary to the strategy of the Law on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. The amendment of the Vice-President of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia to the law on foreigners that Croats without Croatian citizenship should not be foreigners in terms of the provisions of this Act. Four amendments to the Amendment to the Amendment to the Foreign Law have not been accepted, among other things, the amendment of Article 11 of the Law on Foreigners who share Croatian emigrants who have emigrated from the territory of today's Republic of Croatia and emigrants who have moved out of Croatian ethnic areas outside today's Republic of Croatia. Only those who have evicted from the territory of today's Republic of Croatia are given the rights of Croatian emigrants. The law on foreigners and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship has been adopted by an urgent procedure. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship has not been discussed by a single parliamentary committee and no MP has called for a debate at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. So as one colleague who was then in opposition and today in position said all of this shows that the law on the relationship of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is called and is not a real law but a postcard to Croats above all in BiH and Croats around the world from Croatians from Croatia, and that is all. That is why the former opposition and now the ruling coalition has forgotten all its criticisms of the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and agreed to urgently adopt the proposal to amend and supplement this Act, and I believe that we all know that this Law has borrowed the title of the Slovenian law for Slovenians outside Slovenia and the contents for Serbs in the diaspora and in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2472	I thank the esteemed Ruža Tomasic, and I invite the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić to be involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I would like to start my discussion by actually referring to the presentation of our president of the Committee on Croatians outside the country who spoke on behalf of the HDZ and as chairman of the Committee. In fact, on the Committee we asked for a consensus and I believe that these topics should be a consensus in the Croatian Parliament, but in the discussion the gentleman returned but returned to the following topics. The topic was a campus in Mostar, 3 representatives from the diaspora, defenders from Bosnia and Herzegovina, the hospital in Mostar, the hospital in Novi Bila, the Herzegovačka Banka, the return of Croats to BiH, from the entire exhibition, I concluded that funding, money and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina were the key. With all due respect to the Croats in BiH and from the normal knowledge that financial assistance is needed, I don't think this is the point of helping Croatians or the relations of the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. And such a consensus will certainly not be given to a colleague from the Committee, and we have seen from the previous presentation of Mrs. Rose what a problem there is and what a problem it is. Therefore, it is not only important to this Law but to amend other laws that will really work on the right attitude of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Only the passing of the law, which was passed, of course, that the care was placed under one legal framework or structured. Therefore, it is one basis for further improving these relations. Namely, the concern, as we know, was asked as follows, was placed in the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and other ministries that had some questions on a particular topic as an independent service for Croatians abroad. Today, however, we heard commendation for this independent ministry. And I'd say that self-service didn't work well. She was a follower but was not an independent service or had no real role to fulfill, she did not fulfill. Then the concern about the preservation of national identity was taken care of by the Croatian queen of emigrants who remained and, due to her tradition, continued with this law. And the third was the Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia's body of the Croatian Parliament which, of course, is now in effect. However, the existing institutional solutions were not enough or they did not solve the problems of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is good that we have passed such a unique law that will require certain changes and improvements in the future. So when we talk, there were some partial solutions to the problem on the subject, but I don't think there was a structure plan, when you look at it, there was no database. Who are they that want to go back to who are the people who are out there? Here's a colleague who said she's now doing more expensive things that are people who want to invest, that is, who are the people who have returned to the Republic of Croatia? I'm sure we know all the information that people have been waiting to lose hope. Here we heard it also so often fit them to return to where you came from that people had no patience, etc. Let us not forget that people lived in organized lands and that these organized lands served as an example of good practice as it should be. They expected it in their homeland. I think it should have been a plan or a state policy that should have been different so that all of this could be regulated. Here is a colleague who mentioned the Constitution before, of course we are and by the Constitution it is our obligation to the Republic of Croatia to protect the interests and rights of its citizens who live or reside abroad. When you look at who these are, members of the sovereign and constitutional people in BiH will therefore be built and secured at the same level as two other constituent peoples. We need to fight, of course, to help in this regard but also to work on amendments to the legislation in which we will be able to help our Croats in BiH. Our policy must be defined on a national basis and must not be the basis of party interests and this has been a bad practice before. About the Croatian emigrants we heard and there are even numbers already than Croats in Croatia. Of course, they've gone into the world and there's a danger of assimilation because they're already third maybe fourth generation. It is certain that we have the example that our Croatian diaspora has helped and made an invaluable contribution in the most difficult moments of the recent past. And many Croats have tried to return to the country and enter what they have acquired, but I have said before and I repeat very often their doors have been closed very often. The third group of Croats are Croatian minorities in European countries, their status is different. I think we should work on reciprocity towards them. Because when you look at us we have representatives of national minorities in our Croatian Assembly, but perhaps we should work more on that reciprocity. It is likely that state contracts will deal with such relations with those Croats. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia has its relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia based on mutual cooperation, providing assistance, strengthening their communities, and we are aware that there are different needs for these listed Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, therefore we should treat them accordingly. However, we also have the greatest satisfaction within Croatia and all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to build a state of legality of rights, a state of security, a state with prosperity. It's a basis for a return, it's a basis for help and for concern for our countrymen. I would also agree with colleagues who said this wasn't a magic wand. No, this law is not, of course, a magic wand. It is one process, the relationship of Croats to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is certainly one process but it must get one structure. And that's why I'm saying that this law is one structure that we can go from, but this is far from organized relationships or far from the end of the story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2474	Thank you, colleagues Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic, but this debate encourages three colleagues to replicate. First Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2475	Thank you. Well, my colleague said about New Bill's hospital and Mostar that it was a reference to financial support. Helping these hospitals or the University of Medicine in Mostar is not just a matter of financial support, it is a matter of professional support. It would not have established that university if it hadn't been for one quality and that the medical college had not been the support from Croatia to establish this university, establish science, establish this kind of development in Mostar. But what the Croats in BiH felt was that they lost not in 2000 but in 2003 that they lost one support of the Republic of Croatia. By 2003, the Republic of Croatia had stood behind the Croats in BiH in an attempt to establish equality with the other two constituent nations. Since 2003, they've lost that feeling. And that's what most in all contacts and that as individuals, as parties we have a grudge against them. They feel no longer that they have the support of this Parliament and this Croatian state in the establishment and in the fight only for equality with the other two peoples in BiH, and that support would also allow me as the Croatian Parliament and as the Croatian state should enable them, so stand behind them, provide them with support and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2476	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2477	Thank you very much. I think my colleague that you misunderstood me, I was not against this project, but I set an example that my colleague referred to because he was only talking about the Croats in BiH. As for the project of the hospital and Billa, we personally support it, and I think it's the right investment in such a way because it's real help through projects and it's important. It is important to structure assistance for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia specifically in this regard. Therefore, it is a good project because it was a direct investment for a structured project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2478	Next replica, esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members of Šimac-Bonačić, I will almost quote your line on which I have a replica, which is that you are thinking of providing the same rights to the Croats as the constituent people in BiH what rights the other two constituent peoples in BiH have. I wonder and ask you how you intend to make it possible, how do you intend to do it, to ensure the same rights. The best insurance of these rights is seen in the example of a free Bosnian plant, in the desolation of central Bosnia. A former minister, a colleague of the Shukers, spoke about the '91 census. and the condition now. Do you mean essentially unfairly to the Dayton Agreement to defend the rights of Croats as a constituent people in BiH? If you think it's hard, it's not going to work that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2480	Like this, sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2481	Easy, easy, I have to give you my word. You can't talk before that. Replication response, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Excuse me. As far as reciprocity is concerned, I've talked more about the reciprocity of minorities. And as for the agreement, we cannot interfere with BiH's internal policy, so we will support the agreement and we will actually support that our Croats have rights as other constituent peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2483	And the last replica, the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Šimac-Bonačić, and you too, colleagues Tomasic, have mentioned on several occasions this law that was passed at the end of the last session, and I believe that this law has in any case resolved a number of these issues that you have problems with. I also remembered that the issue of Croats who do not have Croatian citizenship was resolved, which by this law is being decided that they are no longer foreigners. And the second moment I noticed, this kind of help. Well, of course helping with New Bill's hospital and Mostar Hospital is welcome. So how else is it going to help concrete measures with certain things? Then it doesn't make sense if it doesn't seem that way, then there's no point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2485	His right to debate will now take advantage of distinguished counterpart Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2486	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As a member of the national minority and representative of the Czech and Slovak minorities here in the Croatian Parliament above all I welcome the establishment of the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and I can say that although the Republic of Croatia has well-organised laws relating to the rights of national minorities which unfortunately do not always be implemented in practice, as members of national minorities we know well how much the help of the countries of origin means to us, in this particular case, the Republic of the Czech Republic and the Republic of Slovakia. We must say that this is the first time in the Republic of Croatia to institutionalise the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, primarily Croats in BiH as constructive people, Croats in Europe as members of national minorities, Croatian national minorities and Croats in emigration. The office will have a lot of work to do in this next period if it wants to make at least some shifts in those parts. First of all, there are bilateral agreements between countries where some are yet to be prepared and signed, and some of course can be well improved. The rights of members of the Croatian national minority outside the Republic of Croatia should first and foremost be sought through them and at least equal rights as do members of national minorities here in the Republic of Croatia, but not only to seek the rights of Croats as national minorities, but first and foremost to help preserve Croatian language, Croatian culture, preserve tradition, but also to connect markets, i.e. to connect entrepreneurs and introduce them to the possibility of investment in the Republic of Croatia and facilitate their investment and return to the Republic of Croatia if it is about emigration, as the colleague said. The only thing I have to conclude here is that I would disagree with my colleague Grubisic when he said on behalf of the club that representatives of the Croatian People's Party club and representatives of the SDP club said that nothing has changed because they welcomed and supported the final establishment of the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, namely this law and the office and said that the office should prove by its work that Croatia cares for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2487	We have one replica, dear colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2488	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and dear colleague. It's just your presentation mentioning the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina as Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what I did to you behind your back, reminds me of the times when Bosnia and Herzegovina was called the Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and then when you refuse H or Hercegovina, then what remains. And as for the reciprocity you've been talking about, it has to be known which countries and what countries are referred to as reciprocity. It does not include Bosnia and Herzegovina but rather whether the countries in which Croatia has a closer environment for national minorities, so Serbia, Montenegro, Hungary, Austria, Italy, etc. And as for my thinking about not thinking about anything or getting any better as you already said that SDP and HNS don't know how to keep the figurines in their pocket. It was said, therefore, in my statement on behalf of the club that this office does not solve anything essential in relation to this issue. So, thanks to the effects of this whole thing we'll see in four years here until that mandate is passed, so we'll see what that government does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2489	You didn't sign up for a reply. Okay. Therefore, the respected Dujomir Marasovic will be a representative whose debate we will hear in the next 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2490	Honored Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I did for all that progress and what's good, but I'm afraid this wouldn't become what it seems to me Churchill told me if you didn't know how to solve the problem of establishing a commission, and here, set up a state office so that the state wouldn't worry about something. The state office cannot, regardless of who it was and what it did, take over that concern that this Croatian Parliament, or the Croatian State should lead about Croats outside Croatia. So, Croatian President, Croatian Parliament, Croatian Government, Croatian Prime Minister, Foreign Minister should take primary essential care of Croats. We know this is a law that applies either a regulation or an office to all Croats in the world. And what's beyond our narrow environment is that we could say things of a technical nature that will be arranged either today or tomorrow. These are countries of democracy, and I wouldn't talk about it much. Because we all know that this primarily applies to Croats in our environment in the former Yugoslavia. And what I'm saying is that this assembly majority is kind of telling stories right now and he thinks that we were all born here yesterday and that no one knows what someone was saying yesterday. So I don't take too long to distract you or your thoughts I'll tell you right away at the beginning of my presentation, that I don't believe in office or politics. I don't believe it, Bianca, I don't believe that Vesna Pusic will lead with regard to politics, care for Croats abroad. I could extend that list of names to more and as far as parties are concerned, also to other parties. But here I said one name, because the fact is that in the past period, that Croatia, we are going to BiH first, that Croatia was the first to recognise Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it made it possible to arm Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we were pretending to be blind over Croatia in the time of the most severe Croatian-Bosnian or Muslim conflicts that arms were going through Croatia, that the vehicle was flour, and we know that the vehicle was a weapon because we were willing to allow it. That we have accepted refugees from BiH, that we have treated in Split and in all other hospitals all the nations that came from the front, selflessly and free of charge. So Croatia has proved in the most difficult times that it knows the essence of human beings, that it can take care of all people and that it should behave as a civilised state should. The fact is that this political option that has now been in power for the past 20 years has nothing she hasn't said, there's nothing she hasn't mocked, there's nothing she hasn't disputed. All that was on the line to help the Croats in BiH or anything that was related to politics, a positive policy towards the Croats in BiH. So why is it helping? Well, you see, gentlemen, we're now dealing with whether or not we should have done a college, help do it. So Croatia did not build a Campus in BiH. Well, that's not true, gentlemen, from every option. She helped make it so let's say, to be real, concrete, and honest. And we are now engaged, and we have heard so much over the past two decades whether Croats should be through some projects or through some other form of help. And your option has been harassing us in Croatia for 20 years that it shouldn't be, that the Croats in BiH are excess, that they're just a burden to us, that they're something that bothers us, that we should not be told, but that it was possible to conclude a wall there on the Herzegovian borders. And that's, I'm telling you what's going on, which is the main thing. This is the continuation of that logic, the continuation of that mentality that supported the construction of Turkish-era cassabas throughout Yugoslavia, which supported Croatian money here to build all these cassavas by turning them into modern cities, and now it cannot be that Croatia and could not stand that Croatia helped build a hospital. This is a continuation of the mentality that stopped the construction of the road, the Zagreb-Split highway, and supported the construction of the Belgrade-Bar railway line. It's a continuation of mentality, etc. I think it's clear what I'm talking about. And now we've come here where we are. So, it is not a matter of technical or some normative intervention here, but of our approach to this Croatian Parliament, it is a matter of the Croatian people's approach whether we will give support or not. We must support the Croatian people anywhere in the world, but in this case it is the most relevant to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. The gentleman who spoke for the national minorities may have been thrown one man off the bridge in Rijeka, but that's an individual case. That's what the police and the rule of law, the judge and whoever did it need to go to jail for life. But in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croatian people were at risk because they had been disputed for two years by their fundamental national rights, i.e. the rights of the people of the constitutive state. And you are not here on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, I do not know if you were, you were the first to raise your voice in the defense of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and anywhere else. Because the fact that the Croatian state has dealt well with the issue of national minorities and we are proud of it. When hair falls off the head in Croatia, a Serb, Bosniak or other country rises to its feet, the media, the judiciary and the DORH. And that's how it's supposed to be, and tomorrow it's gonna be even better. But you are the continuation of one mentality, that when the debate on Croats from BiH is all your fundamental debate is based on the defilement of the Croatian state here as it is. And you didn't say how the Croats, today you were supposed to say that the Croats outside Croatia have no rights and that they should be perfected. However, it has all come down to the fact that national minorities in Croatia do not have the right. We're not gonna do that anymore. There's gonna be other voices. In Croatia, then, national minorities are represented and should be represented. Unfortunately, I don't know a few hundred thousand people from national minorities represent eight and a few million people from three MPs. You were supposed to get up first and say it wasn't fair, it wasn't moral, but let it be. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to tell you right now, none of the Croats from abroad should be sitting here in the Parliament. That's not the point. The point is that this government, this Parliament, the president of the state, will take care of Croats all over the world. That's the point of things. When it happens and what happens to the Croats in BiH happens specifically then ambassadors should be withdrawn, then Croatia should get up on its feet and should be told to the Croats in BiH we are with you and we will be as long as there is a Croatian state. There will be hospitals and universities in Mostar as long as Croatia exists and there will be in Mostar Hospital for Croatians and for all others treated throughout BiH. We are proud to have resolved the issue of national minorities. I claim here responsible that national minorities in Croatia today have greater rights, greater freedoms, those real freedoms than during the communist Yugoslavia when it comes to brotherhood and unity, and under the table they beat their feet into pipsqueaks. I think we have a series of evidence based on which we can sort of argue today. And it should be better and more successful tomorrow. And as I said yesterday that Croatia should solve hooligans in Croatia, I say there today if it has any rights to any man in Croatia, then the whole Croatian state should work on it and get up on its feet to defend one man. And I'll be the leader of it. But here today, gentlemen, first of all, is a matter and a debate about how we defend and how we represent the rights of Croats outside Croatia. And we should represent them you know how? Like the Americans, I'm done. When an American American is at risk, the aircraft carrier is sending for that one man, they don't ask whether they're Republicans or Democrats in power, or if that's what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2491	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2492	That is why I am that Croatia should defend the rights of Croats outside no matter what Croatian option is in power
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2493	A colleague, Marasovic, is 10 minutes out. I thank you for the debate that caused 8 replicas and 1 correction of the incorrect quote. First of all, the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed colleague Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2494	Thank you. My colleague and fellow citizen Duja Marasovic is incorrectly quoted as saying that this authority is headed by the SDP against Croats outside Croatia, but according to his speech, which is rarely so rare that something of boredom could be heard in the Croatian Parliament, and I have been there for a long time and against the Croats, according to him, we are in Croatia itself. Duje seems unaware even though he's... that he insulted millions of Croatian citizens who voted in favour of this coalition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's twice as much as they voted for HDZ because even voters can't stand this kind of rhetoric that does nothing but dig trenches between us, which makes us irrational, which tries to conflict instead of doing something constructive together in the end. My Lippi Duje is doing a lot of damage to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2495	Replications. First respected colleague Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This really should have been heard and it should have been in the Croatian Parliament today to hear this series of brilliant constructions of sentences that are really nothing but insinuation and insult to the public of Croatia, the degradation of this Parliament. At the same time, I would like to mention one technical thing to Mr. Marasovic, Mr. Churchill was talking about the commission, not the commissions. We have a wonderful Croatian word for Mr. Marasovic, the commission. Care for Croats is a constitutional obligation and this law is a consequential constitutional obligation not only for Croatian institutions but also for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Your sentence and statement that we are against the Croatian people as the defender of '91. I feel like an insult, the most common insult to which you have no right even as a representative of the Croatian Assembly with protected immunity. As far as the highway is concerned, I will remind you that the political driver of the project Savka Dabčević-Kučar was the founder of the Croatian People's Party who had the courage to care for the interests of the Croatian people when many of your colleagues and members had a hard book in their pocket, and today they became a rapidly great patriot. And also,... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2497	Please, colleague, one moment, one moment. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Don't throw it out of the bench. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2498	It is also not good for Mr Marasovic to discuss the future of Croatian citizens in Croatia and beyond the borders of Croatia because today's situation in which Croatian citizens are outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, especially in BiH, is the direct result of some decisions from the past and some mortgages.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2499	Time
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2500	And the answer to the question of how to help and how to lead a policy towards these people is very much
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2501	A colleague of Baranovic's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2502	And it's loaded with many mortgages from the past that if we get out of the naphthaline, then we're just going to charge this assembly with very bad energy in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2503	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2504	Dear Mr. Representative, the fact is that the action to build the Split-Zagreb highway was launched at a time when it was appreciated to me, too, dear Mrs. Savka Dabcevic-Kučar was president of the Central Committee, which was exactly and my family gave great money directly and indirectly, that is true, but it was precisely because of this policy that Savka was removed and the entire set and did not end up in prison she and a few around her because Tito knew and somehow kept his pension, but much because of that policy went to prison, left out of work, persecuted, scrambled and I was expelled from the student home. That's how this policy ended that she wanted to do the Zagreb-Split 71 highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2505	Next replica, dear colleague Goran Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2506	My colleague Marasovic has been in power for 18 years, and today you are giving us a lecture on how difficult it is for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I wonder who gave them this black blessing to be difficult for them than for the party policy that you are a member of, in the four years of the ruling of the SDP coalition, HNS and coalition partners, nothing has been done wrong. You give us a lecture at the hospital in Novi Bila I was in a convoy that drove a cornerstone and I was a thank-you to God witness when Fr. Ferdo Vlasic died to your people clearly and loudly told what the result of your policy was. Rest his soul. You argued everything that was to be argued in BiH. You have split your own sister's party into two, Satanized all the most prominent Croatian minds and intellectuals by calling them traitors that is the result of your policy. You have done what you today do not do in your own country by preserving the ethnic majority of Milorad Dodik in Republika Srpska's so-called. You've led them to this day as their guardian and chief ally, Milorad Dodik. I'm just wondering what the Bosnian and Herzegovic Croats have done to God that they have to suffer even two HDZs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2507	Reply to the replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2508	I didn't talk about what anyone did, I was talking about who has been talking about helping Croats in BiH over the past 20 years so it's a little twist film or a little listen to the phonogram. You have tortured us for 20 years for any help to the Croats in BiH, put it on a pillar of shame and presented how something bad that will ruin Croatia is about to happen. I wasn't talking about individual cases or heroism or this or that, so normally there were all options, both heroes and good people, and now there are. And I don't think that Croatians should create an internal policy in the BIH but have the right to interfere because we are, Croatia is a signator of the Dayton Agreement and has the right to interfere in terms of the protection of Croats. If today Mr Dodik is from Republika Srpska for Croats regardless of what tactical or those reasons she needs to take off his hat and unlike these others who do not give Croatians the right to exercise their rights, regardless of the reasons of the Serbian people in the BIH, but they now say they should give the Croats what they belong to. Why should we complain about it? I don't see why.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2509	The third in a row will be the replica of Igor Coleman's colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2510	Dear colleague Marasovic, I am pleased that we have come to glorifying the Republic of Serbia, but what I really wanted to tell you is that of course we have criticised how you talk mocked, mocked your policy towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. So your policy towards BiH is that today, Bosnian-Herzegovina Croats are in the worst political economic and social position they have ever been in and clearly responsible parties on this side of the assembly have criticised it for 18 years and as you say they mocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2511	Reply to the replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2512	I did not glorify Republika Srpska, young Mr. Parliamentarian, I am well aware of the situation of the Croats in Republika Srpska, I was in Banja Luka two, three years ago, drinking coffee in the middle of Banja Luka with the entire leadership of Republika Srpska and also with that gentleman who acted at the time as a member of the presidency in BIH I forgot his name, I was in a village where Croatia was torn down to the ground and from it only ceramic tiles and in that village only three old grandmothers. So don't teach me about what I should be glorifying, I'm talking about today's policy, the fact is that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are threatened today, the fact is that the SDP in the BiH and Bosniaks, Muslims don't allow them to exercise their civil rights and they voted majority for one option for them to exercise power instead, that this option doesn't give them that authority, and Mr Milorad Dodik and Republika Srpska supports them and says it would be fair for the Croats to act in a way that the majority decided and nothing else. And I think it's from Mr. Dodig and Republika Srpska at this point correct, and we need to admit why not. Not glorifying.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2513	The next replica, distinguished counterpart Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2514	Dear counterpart Marasovic, when you talk about the assistance given by the Republic of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina during war events that are not disputed, you have to talk about the overall 90s policy and this overall policy towards the BIH was such that the president of this country, Ivo Josipovic, had to apologize for this 90s policy. Secondly, I cited one of the most disgusting examples of a man being thrown into a half-white day off the bridge, you were talking about how a bag of anything was thrown. Thirdly, when you talk about the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the contribution to the Homeland War, I would like to remind you that they are members of my country, so they are not just Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, but they are also Bosnian-Herzegovian citizens and we are proud of that. And as for the contributions of members of the national minorities, only one reminder, out of the 15 thousand victims in the Homeland War, 1100 were Bosniaks. Of the 1,000 Croats in the Homeland War, one Croat died, and 1,000 Bosniaks in the Homeland War, four Bosniaks died for this country and for this parliament. What is very important is that we tell the complete truth about the Homeland War and give the debt to the Serbian people who also cared for the Jews and Hungarians and Roma and Bosniaks. So I'm asking you when you're saying you're talking in one total. What I wanted to say today is today is a game in Belgrade and today we're talking about throwing a man like throwing a bag, and tomorrow we're going to rebel if there's an incident there. This morning on the radio, I hear five thousand cops are gonna need it, and they're gonna secure that game. It has to change It doesn't matter if someone apologized in time or didn't apologize, but we have to create conditions for such things not to happen in the future. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2515	Reply from colleague Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2516	A short replica. Whoever apologized to whom, you are sir now a series of data who did what. I just said globally that Croatia helped create BiH and if it hadn't been for Croatia, there would be no BiH, today the country as it is. That's undeniable. Because there's no way I can explain it to you in two minutes, but I think you all agree. You know what kind of environment BiH was in if it could have been via Croatia or a helicopter, but the helicopters weren't allowed to fly. So it could only have been through Croatia and that's what I think enough evidence for everyone. I regret all the victims, apologize to all the victims, lay the crowns in all the cemetery, that yes. But I never agreed that Croatia should apologize to BiH in general. And I did not agree with that policy by Mr. Josipovic, the president of the Republic of Croatia, so the whole country got on its feet. I'm sorry, but I don't have to agree with all the procedures, even if it's the actions of the president of the state. I don't think I've done anything wrong. I've just expressed my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2517	The replica was also reported by distinguished counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2518	A colleague, Marasovic, has actually made two such great truths that no one has ever noticed. One is, it doesn't matter how many diaspora representatives sit in this House, exactly. Turns out it doesn't matter. And when there were more of them, and there were fewer policies for BiH that were the same, the same bad. It's amazing how much HDZ respected the opposition. She had power in her hands and respected criticism and could not act because the opposition criticised her. She had all the power, she didn't. What's going on in BiH? in BiH, the Croats have never been in a worse position. And now two of the strongest drills here are who's more responsible for what? It says here no, we're not accusing you of doing anything, we're accusing you of what you're saying. But he doesn't accuse himself or pretend to himself that they didn't act. So today he insists on one hypocritical policy. That is true that Bishop Komarica and similar people did not work in Banja Luka and other parts of BiH that we left in the 1990s to Serbs, there would be 10 times the situation worse than it is today. This is all that is happening and what Mr. Marasovic said one other thing true, the Croatian state's relationship to the Croats in BiH and also to the Croats in Serbia, to the Croats in Montenegro, to the Croats wherever they live. To this day, the state of Croatia has never taken the right position even though it is necessary under the Constitution. So, then, let us give this authority confidence that they will do what you have not done.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2519	And we will hear the last line from counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2520	We have colleagues, I agree with you that it would be useful for Croatian national interests as well, it is at least my opinion that President Josipovic will occasionally visit Mostar and Široki Brijeg, not only Banja Luka. But what I don't agree with you is that the doubt you have expressed about not believing that Vesna Pusic will take care of the Croats in BiH as the new foreign minister, I am not her depositary, but I would just remind you of the HDZ and SDSS contract on the last constitutional changes that would practically form exactly the SAO landscape that incredibly Vesna Pusic did not... said people what you are doing, by the way alone. Therefore, I think Vesna Pusic will be at least no worse, and I hope these interests are better represented than these ministers have represented since 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2521	This ended the debate between colleagues Dujomir Marasovic with numerous replicas and responses to the replica. His desire to discuss this issue in an individual debate for 10 minutes was also shown by the esteemed representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2522	Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would be happy to accept a message from SDP deputies that there should be no difference in politics towards Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we have also seen in this debate that it is actually just one wish that is different from one side of the political reality is quite different, and the constitutional changes have unfortunately been cemented. These differences could, however, disappear if we wanted to bring this relationship down to some kind of humanitarian or caritative aid, but I hope it will not be the task of this state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. What was I going to say when your relationship with the constitution was cemented? I would remind you that this House has adopted a constitutional article in the Constitution that Croats outside Croatia can only vote in diplomatic and consular representations. Such a decision has disabled the constitutional right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to exercise their constitutional rights. It has already been said what it means for people in Canada, Australia or other places, so de facto that it is not a constitutional provision it could easily be brought down by appeal before the Constitutional Court. This way, students or those who will analyse this provision in a little while will be able to conclude that the motives and reasons for such a decision are below democratic standards even of what exists in BiH because there is a correspondence vote in BiH, and below what is expected to be a very soon-to-be online vote, so this decision will be quite dysfunctional, i.e. against the spirit of time. On the other hand, I think that too little when it comes to Croats outside Croatia is taken into account the trend that exists in the world, that at the time of globalisation, the emigration of any country is an economic, cultural, political bridge of the country of origin towards these countries and that it allows not one-way communication as spoken here but two-way communication for overall improvement and emigration and country of origin. A few years ago, I was at an annual event, the assembly of the Canadian-Croatian Economic Society. There were several Canadian ministers in the assembly, only diplomatic representatives from the embassy from Croatia. The Canadians were awarded to living Croats, working in Canada for outstanding economic achievements. There is no such reaction in Croatia, no such events, no such relationship. What's going on? All countries are seeking to establish, institutionalise these relations. We are all calling for Europe and European standards. Recently, two, three years ago, France changed its constitution and allowed not only the Upper House but also that the Lower House had 20 representatives of France from the diaspora in the Lower House. We are here, or the Parliament has reduced it not to what number, which would be normal according to the Constitution as much as it voted for, but in 3 places, because of political trade between parties, parliamentary parties in the Parliament, given the political forces that were then as they were. On the other hand, you have the example that, take what the state of Italy is doing in Argentina. There they offer citizenship to all people of origin precisely to strengthen their bridges and their strengths, both political and cultural, and each other. Moreover, speaking of this, it would be desirable to change the way it comes to the housewife, not the way it comes, but the payment of the housewife. Nothing is paid in France for the housewife and the ID card because it is something that determines the identity of each individual and does not give them any special rights. It's another passport thing. I mentioned Argentina. At the time of the crisis in Argentina, the price for the housekeeper was somewhere around 100, it seems to me, which was then the monthly salary of the people who were supposed to be looking for it. In view of the number of members, they would also have to pay a half-year salary in certain cases to simply obtain this personal document. On the other hand, there have been a lot of words here about BiH. Unfortunately, I can't argue with that, given that this is about the lights, not the factographer. If we were going to talk factographically, then it would be something completely different. However, what remains and where the error is shown, Croatia has not only the right under international agreements and obligations but also the obligation not only to the Croats but also to BiH. On the other hand, it should become normal to say that Croatia has its national interests in BiH, as is also normal for BiH to have its national interests in Croatia. But you'll simply see, if we go to talk about transport infrastructure, then without these defined interests, on the one hand, I can't reach any agreements. On the other hand, the special relations agreement simply goes with Croatia and the Federation simply is not respected or not done. In short, it seems to me that there is a philosophy of relations with Croats living outside Croatia. It's talking about help here. It seems to me like a major category. I think that this policy should move on to talk about understanding to move on to the partnership we must have with the Croats wherever they are, including BiH. They are not burdened either by Croats in BiH on the burden of Croatia or anywhere else. Croatia can only profit from that, I said, not only in economic, political, cultural terms, but I assume that you are familiar with Europe's development strategies over the next 20 to 30 years. Key, one of Europe's key problems in the next period is the demographic problem. Europe has a negative growth rate. On the other hand, this segment of relations with Croats outside Croatia will also be crucial to establish two-way communications in some ways and to alleviate the problem. So the key is to change that policy...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2523	Bring the end, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2524	...to develop partnership relations, and unfortunately these cemented relations in the Constitution sooner or later will have to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2525	I thank the esteemed Miroslav Tudjman. We have two replicas. First of all, the esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, you have seen well in your debate that there is a special contract, i.e. a special relationship between the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, I don't know if it was deliberate, whether it was intentional or malicious, that special relationship contract was either forgotten or ignored. Because that contract really does not apply a single letter from what is written in that contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2527	The answer of the esteemed Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2528	So that's exactly what these special relations are all about, that the policy has been reduced constantly towards, which was to be developed under the contract and that is one of the reasons, additional reasons for the poor position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I would also mention that with the Washington agreements, a series of contracts were signed that were later than 2000. Years of unilaterally forgotten, or cancelled from the Croatian side of the crossing through Neum, and the contract was tied to the contract for the port of Ploče, so that Croatia came into an unequal position in certain situations because of its own stupidity.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2529	Thank you, colleague Tudjman, for your personal exposure. The replica also brings up counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2530	Dear colleague, you said that, in fact, you mentioned the wrong philosophy, in fact, that it was the Croatians' relationship to Bosnia and Herzegovina philosophy, you were talking about the worldview, about two different worlds. I think the wrong pragmatism, the practice of relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, towards Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And mentioned before, counterpart Shuker mentioned one thing that SDP, when in opposition, blackmailed HDZ to do what he did, to reduce the number of diaspora representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So what did you agree to? If that's racketeering. Why didn't you stand up against it? I don't think anyone can make me vote or agree to it if it's against my conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2531	You called a little late. Here, let's still respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2532	I will not answer this second part because it refers to this part, so it seems to me that when it comes to pragmatism, then we should take care of all the forces that participated in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And as for politics towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we refer to the 1990s, then I haven't heard from international factors that it was all about wrong principles at all. So, on the other hand, what is forgotten here is the aggression against Croatia was done from the point of view of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in that sense, the whole policy and relations must be spoken of as one whole, not from the point of view of what happened afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2533	We're continuing an individual debate, so we're calling on an esteemed colleague named Tonin Picul to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside our country. I believe in the same way that the state office that this Law provides will establish will become a administrative point in which it will not only better manage issues important for our citizens around the world, but also convey messages of a unique and thoughtful strategy on Croatian communities. This item on the agenda has also encouraged some of my thoughts that I will try to sum up. I do not think it has been mentioned enough in the debate so far, that by entering a country into the European Union it is changing to say the aggregate-political state of the country. Of course, the position of members of the Croatian communities worldwide after our country's entry into the European Union does not change automatically, but some of the different signs that should certainly be foreseen are being opened. In Europe, about 40 million people speak minority languages, but it upsets the fact that in the world, even 2 and a half thousand languages are at risk in the world according to UNESCO data. Being like I told a member of the European Union brings advantages, but also some obligations. As the newest member of the European Union, Croatia also assumes a good part of responsibility for a space that will not be the Union for some time yet, but will remain our immediate neighbourhood, and this area is burdened with internal problems of which one number of course is rooted in the past, and the other are the consequences of an unfinished transition. There is certainly a fact that the stability of Southeast Europe has a direct impact on the stability and functioning of the European Union itself, i.e. on the processes of some of its further enlargement. Which will be in these difficult times with parts of Europe that are not yet the Union and borders with our country. It is clear to all known people that no one wants a new cycle of instability in the Balkans at this point in Brussels, but they are not even thrilled with new arrivals from this area. However, for negotiations with our country, just east and southeast of us, the European Union is sending a message of encouragement. But I believe she won't make the cardinal mistake she made when she took Cyprus into membership. They will no longer receive countries that have not settled territorial and status issues with their neighbours. And if the forecasts are correct, for the next 7, 8 years, no candidate country, regardless of which it is, will become a full member of the European Union. Since Croatia and the European Union have demanding neighbourhoods, Croatia could affirm its position as a mediator and advocate of the very part of the European continent that will not yet share membership with us. And as I said the other day, our very negotiating so-called software acquired in extremely demanding conditions can help us greatly in this communication. Of course, it is also often a question of whether Croatia will try to play the role of regional leader after joining the European Union and extend its political and economic influence in the region. I think it's an expression of historical complexes that our country doesn't need to define its position. In fact, I believe that the alternative to building a partnership with the neighborhoods is especially with those in which members of the Croatian people live. Croatian communities abroad are extremely heterogeneous, but Croatia's relationship with them should in any case be modernised, improved and evened. At this moment, Croatians in our neighbouring countries have very diverse status, but it would be good to note that some of our neighbouring countries are currently suffering serious and strong internal political pressures such as Slovenia, Hungary, Serbia and should be careful to see that these countries do not only harm Croatia but also Croatian national communities as we have had opportunities to notice in some cases. Croatians, of course, live in overseas countries, in environments that are not often known enough and often live between extreme differences. But today's debate has shown that the position of Croats in BiH is most tangled not only by parliamentary representatives but by a part of the political public. Very briefly, I believe that the Croatian issue in BiH that the state office will be dealing with for sure, the Croatian issue in BiH remains open. It is necessary to ensure that the Croats themselves do not shut him down. Bosnia and Herzegovina must be established on the basis of an internal consensus, not just because of external pressures, especially in the past, that have made it difficult for people in the country to get hurt. Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole still does not reflect the positively defined interest and common role of all three peoples and all citizens. And there is a serious perception of a large number of Croats in BiH that their survival in the country is at stake. The roots of this perception can be discussed, but it lives in that community and should be respected. Here is the last Constitutional Change Agreement in BiH now far from established institutional symmetry in 2002 but only partially reduced the asymmetry between entities. Of course, we can formulate this problem through the question of how, instead of homogenising the people of BiH, BiH itself can achieve homogenisation. Croatia's foreign but not only foreign but the overall policy should be sought on a sound, persistent and partner basis for new and more sustainable answers to this issue. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is not only the Law on Immigrantism or Relations towards Croats in BiH. He would have to have a much wider approach to Croats who have left our country from different motives at different times. From the withdrawal to the Turks through old economic migration in South and North America, let us not forget the latest waves of economic migration, of which is the latest, too. "cyber eviction," so people who possess excellence primarily in using the latest technologies, but who couldn't apply their excellence in our country. For this reason, we should certainly welcome and support this legislative proposal, the establishment of a state office, monitor its work and assist everyone involved in this important and responsible work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2535	Thank you, fellow Picula. To this basic exhibition of yours you will first be replicated by colleague Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2536	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I doubted many of the debates I have heard so far whether to appear at all because there were indeed many reasons and many places for certain interventions compared to some inaccuracies I heard as a man coming from the diaspora, chosen by the diaspora in BiH to votes outside the Republic of Croatia. I also have some internships in parliamentary life, and I am not aware of the facts we have been talking about today almost all morning, but I had to replicate to the distinguished representative Piculi in a fact that has become one of the flossules practically swallowed by the entire Croatian public and the Bosnian-Herzegovina public and has accepted as a fact and the International Community in BiH. That the Croatian issue in BiH can be resolved by consensus. Please, why is that floscule? In BiH, it is a cornerstone of all the stumbling blocks, of all the misunderstandings and unresolved Croatian issues the Dayton Agreement, better to say Annex 4 in the framework of a Peace Agreement called the Dayton Peace Agreement, because Annex 4 provides for BiH to form two entities and three constituent or forming peoples as I like to say it. We are neither creative nor sovereign nor constitutive because we do not have institutions, we are neglected in all relations, and mainly at the state level of government formation. You can see how long it took for the Council of Ministers to be formed in BiH. The way you decide, I'm sorry, there's
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2537	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2538	The way BiH decides is that Republika Srpska as a smaller entity has all the leverage in BiH. And without that consensus, all three peoples, so there is no solution to the Croatian national issue in BiH. This is one special topic, and we can talk about it in each other's occasions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2539	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2540	Very short. I don't believe it's a matter of inaccuracies to my exposure, but you have very precisely expressed your disagreement with what you called a flossula that it is not possible to establish new relations within BiH by consensus. You are thus opening the door to something that I believed was prevailing as the starting position in the talks on BiH's formation. As much as it seemed guilty, complex, difficult if we give up our consensus, that is, from trying to agree on all those who are in the interest of keeping BiH as a state, then we risk opening the door to the very mistakes that I said in my presentation have significantly affected people who were victims of a policy that did not seek consensus but imposed their partial solution. I believe that you didn't think so, and I will agree with you, certainly, that if we want a thousand kilometres of the long land border that we have from BiH on the other hand, we have a prosperous state that we will retain first of all the right and desire to discuss these problems as long as it takes, because we know that it is better to talk for years and years than just one day try to impose some solutions that may suit some and not everyone. We therefore defend this consensus because this defends not only BiH but also the principles of international policy as hard as it may be for us any time and as ineffective as it seems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2541	The replica was also reported by the esteemed Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2542	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with you when you say that the problems in BIH should be dealt with most by themselves, but we should consider that they are a contituous people, they did not fall from Mars, that it is their homeland and we must help them because in Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croats in Croatia they are children of the same mother. Also, Croatia must but very little work to bring back exiles in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Republika Srpska, central Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we know very well that many of these exiles live in the territory of Croatia who would be happy to return, perhaps even live in other people's homes where they need to move out, but they have no place to go but I think we need to talk a lot about it and help those Croats most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2543	At this point, the debate will include the respected representative Davor Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is actually a technical amendment to the Law, but it has shown in this debate how deep some divisions are in terms of what was in the past and also in some of the solutions that are ahead of us. However, while respecting these differences and other topics that have been opened in this debate, I would still return to what my colleague Bozinovic mentioned at the beginning of the debate, namely that this Law has been prepared in one context by all political parties in the Croatian Parliament. Here I come from the eviction I grew up in Argentina and the policy of reconciliation of the evicted and native Croatia initiated by Dr. Franjo Tuđman is one of the members of Croatian state policy and I am pleased that today the majority of parliament in this debate at least in some essential parts supports exactly such a policy. I consider it an expression of Croatian maturity in relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. However, what is also important to say here is that this policy must not only be declarative and in this, I do not want to go into some flat-rate grades now but rather very concretely present some examples of which are already seen where some mistakes are and what has to be fixed. I will mention this week I was in Kupres at a conference and I was asked by participants why Defence Minister Fred Matic had three times negotiated a meeting with HVIDRA president at the end of the day. He even had an appointment on January 20th, came with his delegation to Zagreb and eventually there was no meeting. Now these are concrete examples of not only how we will declare ourselves to be involved in this Law but how we will consistently implement it. I know, Mr. Minister, that this is not in your portfolio, but I am, of course, asking that the implementation of this law be not a matter of this state office, but that all members of the government be aware of this priority because it will only make sense that the provisions of the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2545	Thank you. You called in a replica. You called in too late. I thank my colleague Davor Stier. We still have two colleagues registered for the hearing, so I urge the presidents of the clubs to ensure the presence of MPs in the assembly. Let's continue the debate, Reverend Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2546	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia but perhaps even more care should be taken about Croatian citizens living in the Republic of Croatia and have done their working life or part of the working life in other former SFRY republics. The problem of their miserable pensions is too great for them, because they make it difficult to survive. I have an example for the illustration of one of our pensioners who has worked in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 24 years and received a pension of 152 euros. Part of his 10-year internship in Serbia and in 10 years he received a 60-euro pension and ended up in the Republic of Croatia for an internship of 6 years he received 36 euros in pensions. In total, he worked in three countries for 40 years and received a total pension of 248 euros or 1950 kuna. And while the Croatian party of pensioners had a solution to this problem in the 2007 agreement with the prime minister who sailed but nothing by this problem was made, signed but not realised. We have this problem listed today in plan 21. So perhaps this state office, given that it now holds the Ministry of Labour and the pension system to work on the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2547	Thank you for your discussion and for your rational use of time. Yet one replica, the esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague from the Croatian Retirement Party, you must know about this debate that I am familiar with because I personally worked in the neighbouring state of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 15 and a half years, that it is 1. 1. In 1998 it entered into force whether so, Mr Hrelja, the law and after that, the law no longer applies to the recognition of the internship in other republics in the BIH, which it is equal to the employment experience in the Republic of Croatia. Afterwards, this provision no longer applies but is quite different, therefore, the internship that has been achieved in another country is considered and depends on the pension insurance of another country, but it was d.98. just, now no longer applicable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2549	We'll hear the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2550	This is not about any recognition of internships, this internship was achieved in this working century, it is about too low pensions, for example for some pensioners even below 1000 kuna, and it is particularly difficult in Republika Srpska where pensions are given in some cases in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2551	Thank you. Last but not least, a colleague, Domagoj Milosevic, signed up for the debate. He's gone and he's losing his right to a ten-minute hearing. We have another five-minute debate on behalf of SDP club colleague Ivo Jelusic. I'd like to invite fellow MPs and fellow MPs to gather at the council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2552	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Opening this morning's debate on this agenda point on behalf of the SDP club, I started a debate with queries, dilemmas and fears expressed to me by several people from several institutions, which will be with this law, whether there will be an office and what will be with the entire policy towards Croats outside Croatia now that the SDP has come to power now that more to be clear is not HDZ. I also see here today in the assembly that there will also be certain doubts about some colleagues who will now be. Although my colleague Bozinovic corrected me on the incorrect allegations of my discussion on the subject by saying that he had not heard such dilemmas or fears. I'm not getting into business stuff. I couldn't replicate it. I didn't even say you heard them, but I did hear them. And let there be something that might be possible for others to hear that others see, too, except for individual MPs. Not only must HDZ representatives know what is happening to Croats outside Croatia. And so once again, I underline that nothing bad will happen that the SDP and its coalition partners will also pass this law and build an office and take full care of Croats outside Croatia. Unfortunately, we'll probably pass this law today, they're such persuasion clubs, but I'm not convinced of what else, which I also on behalf of the SDP Club expected and prayed for. I expected that in this House when it comes to Croats outside Croatia that we will not share, that we will have a single policy, a unique approach and that we will first remember the interests of Croats outside Croatia. This debate today has shown that this is not the case, that most of the many are primarily interested in their political party and that these parties will present themselves with Croats outside Croatia and whether they will receive votes from Croats outside Croatia. So the fundamental question here is how will we treat Croats outside Croatia and what kind of policy we will lead. And it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter how many MPs, and that's what this was all about being a representative of the Croatians from the diaspora. It is important that in this House, most support good policy towards Croats outside Croatia, and this cannot be three, five, or ten, but most. And in that sense, we should all support such a policy. To do so, it would be good if all of us from Croatia, all of the political parties in Croatia gave up their use or abuse of Croats outside Croatia, above all from the BIH, said no, we are not fighting for you because of your votes and that you are deepening our majority here in the Croatian Parliament, but we are fighting for your interests because you deserve it. And you give your representatives to the Croatian Parliament not to enlarge the majority of any political party in Croatia without being representatives of political parties from Croatia to be representatives of Croats outside Croatia who will be treated here so that they will have a neutral relationship with all other parties and will indeed be indigenous representatives of Croats outside Croatia. When that is so and if ever so, and I would like it to be so, then even such bile debates will not be, then we will not use or abuse Croats and fight for their votes, but will truly fight for their interests. I will personally advocate that we are now and in the future leading such a policy to advocate the interests of Croats outside Croatia, not to seek their votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2553	Thank you very much. The word has been made by the Minister of Management, Mr Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2554	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that all the clubs of the MPs have pleaded for the adoption of this law. I would like to explain once again the circumstances under which this law is being discussed. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia has had several options as far as this law is concerned. One is to change it, the other is to continue to implement it and the third is to abolish it. We weren't thinking about option three. As for the first option to change it, I think that change, too, if it wasn't agreed by the consensus of all relevant political factors, is not appropriate because in the past meeting, and this is, among other things, a colleague, Vrbat, mentioning the former president of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia who tried most to adopt this law, so without consensus, it wouldn't make any sense. Therefore, it was up to us to express the political will to amend this law with these technical changes and to allow the office's head of office to be appointed within 15 days of the entry into force, to then adopt regulations in the internal structure where some of these issues would already be seen from the internal structure of the office, which would give more attention. And afterwards, by the very functioning of the office, that this law that was passed in the last session of the previous meeting but which was discussed on the committees was also supported by representatives of the SDP and today's coalition so that the law could be tried in some way and started to be implemented and to bring this improvement to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. What no one mentioned in this law is the fact that in the basic law of Article 15 mentions the obligation to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament once a year, so that every year and at least once, the Croatian Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss this issue and I believe that it will be a debate that, let's say, will be less dissonant than this one, because what they were in was mostly about the past. So, as far as the future is concerned, no one has expressed any dissonant tones or disagreements that are good. And the principled commitment of the Consensus Committee is good. And I believe that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia would be the happiest to have political parties in the Croatian Parliament so that they have a consensus because when they argue, then they too believe they don't like it. As far as the implementation of the law, as advocate Stier mentioned, there is a Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this law where the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is not only involved but also other ministries, not all of them but most important ones are included. Therefore, expressing hope that the implementation of this law and these amendments to the laws will bring improvement to the Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, that they will improve the relations of the Republic of Croatia with the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, I call on you to accept this law and that at least once a year if not more often, when there is a report on the work of the state office to see how well we have succeeded in what we have drawn out, which the Government has also drawn out by passing the basic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2555	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote today as soon as we finish what I want to say. We move to a statement on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 22. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes with 125 votes in favour, no one against, 1 abstentions, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2557	Let's move on. - Proposal for a decision to dismiss the Vice Advocate for Gender Equality - Proposal for a decision to appoint a Vice Advocate for Gender Equality. The Proposer of Decisions shall be the Advocate for Gender Equality in accordance with Article 20. Gender equality laws. You've received a proposal for an act on the benches. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, and you received reports at the session. Would the applicant like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Višnja Ljubic's attorney for gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2558	Dear Mr. President, I warmly welcome you and thank you for the opportunity to present today the two proposals that go ahead of the Ombudsman's institution for gender equality. It's about two proposals. The first proposal proposes a resolution of the current Vice-President for Gender Equality whose term of office of 8 years expires on 30 January of this year and is a proposal for the appointment of the new Vice-President for Gender Equality, Mr Goran Selanca, whose candidacy we have received together with the other 5 candidates because, using the powers of the Gender Equality Act, I have issued a public invitation and we have considered all the proposals of the candidates. Here, I would like to thank, therefore, for the opportunity to present Mr. Selance as a person who meets both the formal, professional conditions of a lawyer in the field of protection of human rights promotion, especially in the area of protection of anti-discrimination guarantees and gender equality. Here I hope that the Croatian Parliament will support this proposal from the Ombudsman institution for gender equality. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2559	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am finalising the debate and I am voting on the motion for a Decision on resolution first. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I note that a decision has been unanimously taken on the resolution of the Vice-President for Gender Equality in the text as proposed by the Proposer because all 122 MPs and deputies voted in favour. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision appointing. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I note that the decision on the appointment of Goran Selanec to the Vice-President for Gender Equality in the text was unanimously adopted as proposed by the Proposer with 120 votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2560	We move to - Proposal for a Decision on discharge of members of the Croatian Supervisory Board. The decision shall be proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media pursuant to Article 22(1). HRT law. You've received a proposal for an act on the benches. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am finalising the debate and voting on the motion for a Decision on discharge. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 121 votes, a decision on the resolution of the members of the HRT Supervisory Board has been taken in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2561	Here we go. - a) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and members of the Management Board of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. - b)The proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted the proposal for a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 4. Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. You've received a proposal for action on the benches. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Thank you very much. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2562	Mr. President of the Parliament, representative of the motion, ladies and gentlemen. We also discussed in the amendments to the HANFI Act which were on the agenda for the night before last with a relatively scarce debate, and at that time we felt that these amendments were absolutely unnecessary because, until now, HANFA had been doing well, solidly, in a stable way, controlled the entire non-banking sector of the Republic of Croatia, we have made a series of remarks and remarks on the proposed amendments to the laws that were still supplemented by the proposals of the Committee because they were incomplete and also presented with one legal vacuum in which HANFA was found, because there was no administration and means amendments to the HANFA Law establishing the administrative council instead of the HANFA administration, and here is the proposal for new members of the HANFA Governance Board. We have nothing personally for neither humans nor we know them, nor have heard them or been presented to us, however, here are a few notes if you have arrived to look at, for the president of the management of HANFA, I note for our sake and the audience that HANFA is the most important institution that oversees the entire non-banking sector of the Republic of Croatia, leasing, pension funds, societies different, all that are not banks in the Republic of Croatia. As president of the HANFA administration, this proposal proposes a man who comes from the post of president of the ZABA investment fund management, so Mr. Petar Pir Matek. For members of the administration, Mario Radakovic, who comes from a member of PBZ's mandatory pension fund, is proposed for the third member of the management board, is the Christmas Silvana, who until the 7th month 2010, acting as chairman of the management company for the selective investment funds of the Unity Group. For the 4th member of the Management Board, it is proposed that Mrs Gordana Letica come from the post of Executive Director of the Sun Insurance. And the fifth member of the governing council to be proposed is Mrs. Branko Bedov-Kostelec, who is the only one coming from HANFA. Now we are asking an open question to both the Government and to all of you why we are in the administrative council of the HANFAs in the top 5 of the 4 people who come from the leading places in the societies in which HANFA should manage their work. Is there not from the public sector, the state sector, and the sector where there is no danger of potential conflicts of interest of friendly relationships and the like there were not several people who would be competent and relevant to be appointed to the HANFA administrative council? So, we are not suggesting anything and insinuating but we are asking ourselves a question we are now asking the Croatian Parliament and the public, which is how the new management of HANFA is established. So quickly and with people coming directly from institutions that are also the head of funds that are just the subject of HANFA's supervisory work. Therefore, the HDSB Club will be against such a proposal from the Governing Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-27-0.u2563	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of presidents and members of the Board of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes for 79 for, 10 against and 31 have been abstentioned to a decision on the resolution of presidents and members of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Authority as proposed by the applicant. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Is there a problem with the addition? Thank you. I note that most of the 87 votes for and 38 abstentions were decided on the appointment of presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency in the text as proposed by the applicant. Thank you.
